ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 69th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Barbara Žgajner, Mrs. Alenka Pavlič, Mrs. Eva Irgl, mag. Lejla Hercegovac, Dr Ljubica Jelusic from 15.30 onward, Mr Matjaž Han, Dr László Gönzc, Mr Branko Kurnjek from 17:00 on and Mag. Matthew Tonin. I invited representatives of the government to the meeting, and I welcome everything. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda for the 69th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 6 June 2014, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda of the meeting, so I suggest that the assembly set a agenda for today's meeting, as you have received with reference. We are moving on to a decision and before that, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. In this phase, it is not possible, Mr Meh, to begin the meeting first, by checking only the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on the agenda. It's not possible, Mr. Meh, at this stage. I'm breaking up. So we are voting again on the agenda. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, voting in favour 47 to 3. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the agenda of the 69th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. Gradually, Mr. Happy Meh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u2	Mr President, I protest that I could not exercise my position because the Committee on the Economy was last night at 7 p.m. and I was unable to propose the withdrawal of the item from the agenda because I would have proposed it yesterday because there were no conditions if the Committee were called on time. That is why today, ladies and gentlemen, it is now up to us to adopt a agenda on which there is a point that we have not concluded on the Committee, because we have proposed to interrupt it on the Committee and because there has been a vote on the Committee by a Member who did not have the right to vote and that we also wanted to break this point, it seems to me that this is why it is impossible to work in this way. It manoeuvres that the SDS party or any one of them continuously encourages discussions at extraordinary meetings on the points we have discussed at least five times, and that we cannot actually work normally then, it seems to me that this is not good for democracy and not for the implementation of the Rules of Procedure. Last night, at 12 o’clock or this morning, we concluded or attended a meeting where we concluded that someone had voted that had no right to do so. And when we set the agenda today with a point for which we have not adopted conclusions on the committee, we have actually taken a decision on the committee, with which we would break the point until we get a government position, so it seems to me that this, ladies and gentlemen, is not acceptable and that we will do everything democratically to apply democratic principles and that we will not sit on constant initiatives for extraordinary sessions and then, in front of cameras, there were no cameras last night, and that was one of the main reasons. And one more thing, there were no voting devices last night, we didn't vote with the voting apparatus, we voted by raising our hands. I don't think it's good, it's not right, and I'm protesting this way again. I ask you, ladies and Members, to try to prevent such a course of action in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u3	Thank you. Mr. Lucky Meh, let me explain. The withdrawal of the item from the agenda of the meeting is not possible because the item is classified on the basis of a request for a special meeting by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors and Members of this Group. So your proposal for withdrawal is not really possible. As far as work on the working body is concerned, it is taken into account in the course of the meeting of the National Assembly, so that we will start today with item 2 of the agenda, and tomorrow the meeting will begin with item 1 of the agenda, this is the one whose consideration of the parent working body has not ended. Thus today, after we have completed the consideration of all agenda items, the working body could meet again – 15 minutes after the meeting is concluded today – and can prepare its report for tomorrow's scheduled meeting of the National Assembly. Of course, it is correctly established that the working body must first complete its work and then we can also begin the consideration of the point at the meeting of the National Assembly. Procedurally again, Mr. Meh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u4	Mr President, there is no magnetogram at this point, there is nothing on the board that we can work on. It is said that we have to meet all the conditions for the work of the committee. If you've scheduled this meeting by 10:00 p.m. and then the board meeting again, it seems to me that these are the conditions in which it's wrong for us to work. If extraordinary sessions are a reflection of the situation in this country, then that is not good. Even in the war, I didn't think it worked that way, and they had more time to do it. Once again, I protest, there's no way we can work. There is no way we can discuss this.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u5	Let me explain again, Mr Meh, I have only announced the possibility of the working body meeting today after the meeting of the National Assembly, because during the meeting of the National Assembly the working bodies must not meet. Either that happens or not, it is the responsibility of the Chairman of the parent committee which deals with this point. I propose that we proceed with our work, on the basis of the agenda voted on. Before we move on to item 2 of the agenda, Mr Jože Tanko wants a procedural word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. You have very correctly explained the procedure we have in the National Assembly to deal with individual agenda items. At the same time, it would be correct to say that 10 out of 11 points for this extraordinary meeting were proposed by the coalition – 10 out of 11 items on the agenda. This meeting was not convened solely because of the opposition party, but because of the SDS, you proposed 10 points to the parliamentary groups that support this government. And such an act by a colleague of Meh means essentially the slander and insult of those who have not done something for which they have been accused. What the coalition will do by the end of the term of office of this National Assembly is a matter of coalition. But it is obvious that at your request an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly will be convened again. It's already been filed. And I would kindly ask all Members of the National Assembly to discuss in this way and accuse the SDS to convene something and that you are a victim I do not know what to first clear up your conduct with yourself. You're on your own first! Since the vast majority of the matters that we deal with after an unnecessary meeting are matters of agreement between the leaders of the parliamentary groups that support this disintegrating coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u7	Thank you. I propose that we conclude with procedural proposals because they are not controversial. In this regard, I just wanted to make it clear that we have also decided at the College that the National Assembly is no longer sitting in regular sessions during its discharge, but that extraordinary meetings are convened. And that's how the National Assembly works. And today we are at the beginning of an extraordinary meeting, which has actually been convened at the request of both the Group of Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, as well as the other groups of Members, to deal with 11 agenda items. The sooner we begin to address the points, the sooner we will conclude this extraordinary meeting. Does any further procedural proposal, Happy Meh, need to be made? Here you go, Mr. Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u8	I, Mr President, was trying to say that two things happened. That the committee was called in at 7:00 last night. It takes hours for us to have 10 hours from midnight until today, that there is no magnetogram and that the SDS Member has voted at a committee meeting where he should not vote. And now if someone says that this meeting was called upon our request, that is to say coalition Members, it is not true, because the manner of extraordinary meetings is the one that leads us to give the wrong signal from the National Assembly, and we should not give this wrong signal. In particular, I have tried to say that we also deserve Members to have time to discuss and that we can consult the professional services so that we can find out what is wrong with this whole matter. From midnight to today, I really couldn't do anything but protest here today in a way that is not appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u9	I am also joining your position here for a reason, because at a time when we are not working on a programme that we accept, there is also a very big problem, when and how to organise the work of the National Assembly or call on the working bodies. Therefore, it would also be very important to apply for an extraordinary meeting in order to check when working bodies can also do their work within these 15 days of the request being submitted. So, yes, work is more difficult, it will be harder to organise, so it will require a little patience and understanding so that we can meet all those expectations that are recorded in the requirements for an extraordinary meeting. Also a procedural proposal. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. The request we tabled with the signatures of members of the Slovenian Democratic Party was put into the legislative process on 30 May. Today's the 11th, yesterday was the 10th. And if the chairman of the committee, Mrs Alenka Pavlič, has not found a more appropriate time at this time than it was yesterday at seven o'clock in the evening, then you will agree in the coalition on how you will deal with the agenda items. You can agree on that because no one, past the chairman of the committee, can convene a committee. She didn't give the authority to anyone. If, within 10 days, she has not found a more suitable hour to deal with this item of the agenda, then there is something in this national assembly, while we are only working in half, something very wrong with the organisation of the work and also with the perception of the coalition Members, what and when to process in order to complete the debate and the item placed on time and right on the agenda of the National Assembly. That's your job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u11	Thank you. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, this is on the basis of a proposal for a law on the additions of the law on the gradual closure of the poultry and the developmental restructuring of the region by the current procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Bojan Kumru, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space. Here you go, Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and honourable Members! You have before you a bill supplementing the law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine and the development restructuring of the region. The draft law regulates the social and material security of the group of employees in the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine, which is shorter with the short term RTH, and is without prejudice to the system legislation of pension insurance, since the insured persons covered by this law will receive the same as all other insured persons with compulsory pension and invalidity insurance or occupational insurance. Under this special law, individuals employed in the RTH will gain only an additional right for which an additional budgetary transfer to cover the difference will be granted to these individuals. This right will be recognised on the basis of the fact that these individuals are employed or have been employed in the RTH Mine, which is being closed by the State with special law and to this end also provides financial resources. However, everyone who is a member of this special law shall be guaranteed equal rights under the same conditions. The objectives of the proposed additions are to take account of the following conditions for the benefit of the professional pensioners. That they were employed in the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine on 1 January 2014 to have been continuously employed in the RTH from 1 January 2001 to 31 December 2013, for which compulsory inclusion in compulsory supplementary pension insurance or occupational insurance is established. To supplement the age of at least 49 years and 40 years of retirement until the closure of the RTH. In order to waive the right to a pension at the time of retirement and to enforce the right to a professional pension until the closure of the RTH mine. The amount of the occupational pension shall be calculated on the basis of the amount of the funds raised, but shall not be lower than the amount of the old pension which the insured person would receive in the compulsory pension and disability insurance for an additional 40 years. If the personal account of the insured person is not sufficient to pay such a fixed amount of the occupational pension, the deficit shall be covered by the Republic of Slovenia by a single payment of the funds to the personal account of the insured person. The funds to be provided by the Republic of Slovenia for the payment of the corresponding amount of the occupational pension shall be reduced by the amount of the retirement at the time of termination of the employment, provided that such retirement has been paid to the insured person. In this case, the amount of the occupational pension calculated according to the actual amount of the assets held by the insured person in the personal account shall be reduced accordingly. The Republic of Slovenia shall also provide the single payment insurers with the means to pay the contribution of voluntary admission to compulsory pension and disability insurance at the time of receipt of the occupational pension and the means of redemption under the compulsory pension and disability insurance. In addition, the Republic of Slovenia is obliged to cover the resources necessary to pay the contribution to health insurance at the time of receiving the occupational pension. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We suggest you confirm the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u13	Thank you, too. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Infrastructure and Space as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Samo Bevk, President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! At its 38th emergency meeting, on 10 June 2014, the Infrastructure and Space Committee considered the proposal for a law on supplementing the Law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the development restructuring of the region submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following an urgent procedure. At its 100th meeting, on 30 May, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided to consider the proposal for a law following an urgent procedure. On behalf of the proposer, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space Mag. Bojan Kumer explained in the introduction that the draft law regulates the social and material security of the group of employees in the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine because it is the most vulnerable group in the industry, with specific working conditions affecting the health of workers in the mine. He stressed that the proposal for a law regulates occupational retirement and the provision of additional funds by the Republic of Slovenia for the payment of occupational pensions of employees in the RTH, while employees are required to fulfil several conditions for the exercise of the right to a professional pension. On the basis of the list of employees, it was found that the potential conditions laid down in the proposed law could meet some 180 employees and for its implementation in the period 2014-2018 it would be necessary to provide between 6,9 million and 12 million in the State budget. He also stressed that the draft law does not prejudice the system of pension insurance since the insured covered by this law will receive the same benefits from the general system of compulsory pension, disability insurance or occupational insurance covered by the Pension and Disability Insurance Act as all other insured persons with compulsory pension and disability insurance or occupational insurance. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, Dr. Sam Dijak, said that the Legislative and Legal Service had given an opinion on the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative technical aspect. In this regard, he pointed out the introductory conclusion from the view that the proposed solution in the draft law constitutes a derogation from the scheme laid down for occupational retirement in section 11 of the STIZ-2. However, the President of the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, Jernej Verbic, stressed that the Commission supports the proposal for a law. In the debate, MEPs expressed in principle uniform support for solutions in the draft law. With regard to the provision of funds for the payment of a professional pension, as envisaged by the solution in the draft law, Members wanted in particular a more precise explanation from which those funds would be provided. The Committee then adopted its amendment to Article 1 of the Act. In accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the Committee voted on and adopted both articles of the draft law together. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended law, which includes the adoption of the amendment, is prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u15	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jože Velenja will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u16	Honourable President, Honourable Secretary of State with co-worker, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine is a project that governments and parliament have been working on since 2000. The Gradual Closure Act Rudnik Trbovlje-Hrastnik thus experienced a series of changes and additions before the parliamentary mandate in this reference. The changes mainly related to the level of financing of the closures from the budgets and changes in the production period on the mine. In our term of office, we meet with the closure of the mine for at least a quarter of the time. With the ZUJF, due to a drastic reduction in the budget source, we have prevented the mine from closing definitively and lost at least a year and a half. With the amendment to Article 48 of the ZUJF, some Members tried to draw attention to the gravity of the problem and to enable the search for a solution to the closure of the mine. I'm afraid that's a failure. By amending and supplementing the law on the gradual closure of April this year, we have enabled the completion of projects to close the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine, prevent the bankruptcy of the company, and unfortunately we have not solved the personnel-social part of the closure programme of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine. Today's changes are addressing the issue of the company's staffing restructuring and allowing employees to benefit from occupational pensions. Regardless of the many shortcomings in finding appropriate solutions for the closure of RTH and the restructuring of suspense energy, today's amendment to the law is the most sensitive area. This is the search for suitable solutions for employees still employed in the mine with less than five years of retirement to the age-retirement condition. The area of occupational pensions is intended for this purpose, but this novel is not systemic and therefore gives it a special advantage. However, other workers belonging to the employment cycle with special conditions for other intensive industries will not be discriminated against. While the law overstretches the assessment of the budget burden, it is estimated that savings on the other hand will be under €5 million under the worst scenarios by 2018. The key to the novelty is that the most vulnerable groups of employees are given the opportunity to use professional pensions under special conditions. In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, we will, in particular, support this change and complement the law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the restructuring of the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u17	Thank you, too. Mr Bevk alone will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected congregation! — 1 Corinthians 15: 33. The proposed amendment of the Law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the development restructuring of the region will be supported in the Group of Social Democrats. The fact is that it would be most appropriate to address the issue of the retirement of employees through a system of occupational retirement and to set specific conditions for the acquisition of a professional pension. The proposed solutions in the amendment of the law aim to take into account the following conditions: employment in the RTH on 1 January 2014, between 1 January 2001 and 31 December 2013 to be included in compulsory supplementary pension or occupational insurance and to supplement the mine at least 49 years and 40 years of retirement. At the same time, they also waive the right to a pension at the time of retirement and enforce the right to a professional pension until the closure of the RTH. This amendment does not affect the system law of pension insurance. This novelty will give the insured an additional right for which an additional budget transfer is granted to individuals to cover the difference because they work in the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine, which the State closes with a special law and provides financial resources for this purpose. As has already been said, we will support the proposed law in the Group of Social Democrats, but we cannot go beyond the fact that this law is another law that we are adopting by emergency procedure at one of the last meetings of the National Assembly in this reference. We support the law, but we wonder if such important laws must be adopted in this way and why such a law has not been prepared before. Perhaps three months ago, at a meeting of the National Assembly, we adopted the previous amendment to the same law. The Social Democrats will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u19	Thank you, too. Mr Aljoša Jerič will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The proposal for a law on supplementing the Law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the development restructuring of the region, with the proposed additions, facilitates the acquisition of the right to a professional pension for individual categories of employees in the public company Rudnik Trbovlje-Hrastnik, d. o. o. Additional funds for the payment of occupational pensions will be provided by the State from the State budget. This is a group of RTH miners who are difficult to employ, as they belong to a group of older workers with a very specific education, for which it is difficult to provide jobs. They will be allowed, subject to certain conditions, to exercise the right to a professional pension, at a rate such as that of a retirement pension for an additional 40 years. We all knew for a long time, and we were aware that suitable solutions needed to be found in the mine for the workers. After the miners closed the cave in March, they were also visited late in the evening without a media pump by the Prime Minister mags. Alenka Bratušek, and that's because she decided to deal with the mine issue definitively. That's when she promised them she'd set up for retirement and pay. And she kept her word. She also supported her departure from the cave by saying, "The fact that miners have to go into a pit to exercise their rights should not happen in 2014." This amendment to the law ahead of us, in the light of the government's stated promise, also represents a dignified solution to fate for the succulent buttons that came just before retirement, as the situation could have brought them into social distress. Since they manage one of the most difficult professions in the world, we must also provide for their decent survival. The proposed amendment of the Law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the development restructuring of the region will be supported in the Group of Non-Aligned Members of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u21	Thank you, too. Mag. Katarina Hočevar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u22	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to all present! Today, for the second time in this calendar year, we are supplementing the Law on the gradual closure of Rudnik-Trbovlje Hrastnik and the development restructuring of the region. Otherwise, this law has been amended six times since 2000, and at the time of its adoption, this mine employs a thousand 300 people, now only about 100. In March we extended the closing work with the novel until the end of 2018. The closure of mines in all three Sava municipalities exacerbated the social picture of the region. Unemployment is among the largest in Slovenia. With today’s novel, we relieve the cancer of the region’s wounds – high unemployment. The novel lays down occupational pensions under special conditions for workers in the mine. Under the so-called special conditions, those who will be able to retire until the mine is closed, that is 31. 12. 2018, 49 years old and will be up to 40 years old, together with an added age. Being a miner or a knapsack has always meant two ways of life in Zasavje, but outside this region, it is only a difficult and dirty profession. In 250 years, Zasavje was given 119 million tons of energy to society. Society today needs neither coal nor mining. Even the young mammals this profession, unfortunately, is no longer interested. We're just being friendly with him. It is therefore probably right that society, the State, in some way, should carry out its duties and obligations towards this region to the end, including solidarity. Or measures that enable people to move too quickly to retire are really solidarity or are just the easiest and fastest way out of politics, which is another issue. The miners who are able to work deserve a job, not just a pension. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the law that we are amending today bears in its title the word "development restructuring of the region". However, development restructuring is carried out not only by retirement for the work of capable people, but by attracting investment and new capital. And we should do that. To create such an environment and conditions that miners will not have to accept charity, but that they will be able to choose in which of the companies they will hire. I sincerely wish that young and prospective mammals would no longer meet only in the capital and other cities of Europe. We have the right to have opportunities in the home region as well. We did not come out as winners in the restructuring story of the region, but the new elections also bring a new hope, the hope that the governance of the country will be placed in the hands of people who have seen the inside factory, who, wherever they have come, have opened up new jobs without State aid. People who understand the economy and know that the path from this abyss in which we are found is another way than by granting state aid. New jobs are the only option not only for Zasavje, but for the whole of Slovenia. We will support the law in the Civil Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u23	Thank you. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr State Secretary with colleagues, including from another ministry, colleague and colleagues! Obviously, the gradual closure programme and the development restructuring programme of the region are not taking place as envisaged by the adoption of the law. Especially, as we can see, is the problem with this personnel work. With this change of law, which is smaller in scope, we are mainly dealing with this human resources situation or occupational pensions under special conditions. Otherwise, I will not list the solutions because the Government's representative has already done so and the representatives of individual parliamentary groups, but I can only say that the solution is unusual, because it solves only the problem of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine, so it proposes the resolution of professional pensions which are not systematically saved, which some call an advantage, and in my opinion this is a flaw. It is necessary to resolve all matters systematically, because in the next step we have a problem again in another case. The problem is also the timing of such changes, I might say, on the neck. However, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we support these changes, because, as I initially said, the implementation of the Law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine and the developmental restructuring of the region does not take place as planned, and in these circumstances this socio-cadadrian part must be resolved in particular. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposal for amendments to this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u25	Thank you, too. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Honourable President of the National Assembly, distinguished representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We have before us the proposal for a law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine and the developmental restructuring of the region, in which we found ourselves in the DeSUS Group in difficulty to vote in this law. Should we listen to the warnings of the Legal and Legal Service that the solutions proposed are to derogate from the system laid down in Chapter 11 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, and thus resent the Zavek miners? Should we attach 180 employees to the drafter of the law and send them to early retirement and thus place them in a privileged position compared to, say, the Mura workers, who are likely to remain on the road for a short period of time, without the possibility of life-long social security, as represented by the occupational retirement that employees will receive from the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine? However, since the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia is ultimately a social party and our social security is citizens and citizens in the first place, we have decided to support the bill. This proposal will allow at least 180 employees and their families from one of the most socially endangered areas, such as Zasavje, to enjoy greater social security than they would have if they continued to maintain a working relationship in a society which, due to the past sins of the various leaders of the RTH and for which they would probably never be responsible, but is steadily failing. Members and Members of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be supported by the draft law because of our highly developed social sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u27	Thank you, too. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u28	Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, Fellow Members and Fellow Members! The proposal for the amendment of the Law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine and the development restructuring of the region, adopted by the National Assembly on this occasion under urgent procedure, constitutes a second amendment or amendment to this law. This raises the question why the issue of occupational pensions for individual categories of hard-to-work older workers with a specific education is being addressed only now by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. It is more than obvious that the country is a very poor owner and manager of its assets, since it was not until the end of February this year that Rudnik Trbovlje-Hrastnik became more active with the fate of the company. At that time, it became clear that the State aid approved by the European Commission in 2011 for the closure of caves, the ecological spatial recovery of surfaces and the human and social programme will not be sufficient to close the mine until 31 December 2015, when the situation has already crossed the threshold of social hazard for employees. At that time, we added EUR 45 million 730 000 for the extension of the closure deadline and the final recovery of the mine in 2016-2018, proposing that an additional €6.9 million to 12.5 million be added from the budget of the country to this bottomless bag. In the New Slovenia Group, we are aware that by adopting the proposed addition to the Law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the development restructuring of the region, we are also solving the pressing environmental and economic problems in Zasavje today, on which further living conditions of the working miners depend. We Christian Democrats regret that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is only looking for new solutions today to mitigate the consequences of closing the mine. We wonder why these consequences and the possibility of obtaining the right to professional pensions have not been anticipated before, at least in the process of adopting the first year's amendment to this law. We always hunt the last train instead of looking for systemic solutions that would apply equally to employees in all the mines that the country closes. We Christian Democrats are concerned about the carelessness of this government, which only extinguishes fires and even threatens with difficult remedial consequences for the functioning of the country if Members and Members do not support the above-mentioned amendment of the law. Why did you not prepare this proposal earlier so that it would not have to be accepted following an urgent procedure at a time when the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is only doing business on a stand-alone basis? Our Group believes that we cannot assume such responsibilities for the next four years. In view of the proposal of the Law on Supplements to the Law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the development restructuring of the region, we will not support it, nor will we oppose it. We are aware that the social consequences of the gradual closure of the mine will continue to push Zasavje under the threshold of decent and well-deserved pensions, while at the same time reminding us that such a problem exists in other areas where the closing parts of the mines are taking place. We therefore expect the next Government of the Republic of Slovenia to address these issues systematically and primarily with greater responsibility for all workers in mining.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr Daniel Krivec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greeting to the representatives of the government, nice greetings to colleagues and colleagues as well! Once again, we have before us a law amending the Law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the development restructuring of this region. As we know, we adopted the latest paper on RTH a good month ago, April of the month, and it is clear that the measures and means of restructuring the region so far do not produce results. For this reason, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law be considered by means of an urgent procedure in order to prevent difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the State. The draft law provides for a measure to ensure the acquisition of the right to a professional pension for individual categories of employees in the public company Rudnik Trbovlje-Hrastnik, d.o.o., and additional funds from the Republic of Slovenia for the payment of occupational pensions of employees. This is a group of RTH employees who are difficult to employ, as they belong to a group of older workers with a very specific education, for which it is difficult to provide jobs. We agree with this, but we ask ourselves whether such partial laws, which save individual economic societies, make sense and bring solutions at the final stage, which will also make it difficult to provide concrete solutions to these employees. The applicant submits that the proposed additions are intended to take account of the following conditions: that they were employed in the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine on 1 January 2014 to have been in the period between 1 January 2014. 1. 2001 to 31. 12. 2013 continuously included in the compulsory supplementary pension insurance or occupational insurance to supplement the age of at least 49 years and 40 years of pension age until the closure of the RTH mine in order to enforce the right to retirement and the right to occupational pension until the closure of the RTH Mine. In order to implement these planned pensions, it is envisaged that between 2014 and 2008, the budget of the Republic of Slovenia will need to provide between €6.9 million and € 12.5 million. For the implementation of this law, until the closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine, financial resources for 2014 will be provided under the adopted budget by redistribution, for 2015 by amending the 2015 budget and by 2018 this will have to be taken into account in the planning of the budget. We will not oppose this bill in our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u31	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made within half an hour following the end of the first item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a law on amendments to the law on student food subsidies after an end-of-life procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Dejan Levanič, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! In 2010, the subsidisation of student nutrition was essentially converted to an electronics system. In fact, student vouchers have also been abolished with this change. Thus, students do not need to buy vouchers in advance and choose the locations of their diet. In this way, it also prevented the sale of vouchers. And the performer, in this case the Student Organisation of Slovenia, must also process, among other data, data on mobile numbers of beneficiaries of subsidised student diets that benefit from this via the mobile phone. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has drawn up a proposal for a law. We reconciled it with the Student Organisation of Slovenia, then with the Information Officer, including the other ministries and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Law Service. The law is consistent with all stakeholders, so we also hope for adoption in the National Assembly. As far as the main changes to the law are concerned, according to the existing law. Otherwise, the beneficiaries are defined to subsidise student diet, and it is also determined when the Student Organisation of Slovenia enters the beneficiary into the record and where it also obtains the data and when it is written out from the record. This is a record managed by the Student Organisation of Slovenia. In addition, a mobile phone number is included to enforce student nutrition subsidies and a mobile phone number or e-mail address to inform the beneficiary, while some of the information previously included is no longer included. The law also specifies that the Student Organisation of Slovenia manages this register of students who are entitled to additional subsidised meals per month. An important novelty is also the link between the accounts of beneficiaries of subsidised student diet and the records of students and graduates carried out by the Ministry responsible for higher vocational and higher education, and the elimination of sanctions which can no longer be imposed by electronicisation of subsidised student diet. The way in which sanctions are imposed has also been changed. The ban on the sale of student vouchers has become unspeakable and must also be deleted. The main reason for the adoption of the bill is so urgent that we can then also implement the Law on Student Food Subsidisation in the future, to add a mobile phone number to the student data managed by the Student Organisation of Slovenia. That is why we are also asking you to support this law so that we can also implement student nutrition subsidies in the future. If this supplement has not been adopted, we shall be followed by a suspension of the implementation of this Act by the Information Officer. Maybe some more interesting information. During the period 2000-2012, the number of students eligible for subsidised student diet increased from 23 000 to 61 000 on average monthly, representing 161 % growth. In fact, the number of funded subsidies is from 3 million to 6.5 million per year, which is 75% higher. A lot of money is also devoted to subsidising student diets, which is, after all, some acquisition in Slovenia, and it is also right to implement it in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u33	Thank you, too. We're moving on to the committee report. The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities, as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a law. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to the President, Dr Andrei Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u34	Dear Mr President, the representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues, a very nice greeting! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities, as a working mother, considered the proposal for a law on student food subsidies submitted to the National Assembly by the Government with a proposal for a review and adoption following a reduced procedure. Representatives of the proposer with the State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities participated in the work of the Committee, a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, a representative of the State Council and a representative of the Student Organisation of Slovenia. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical legal aspects. It submitted comments to the proposed text on Articles 2 and 3. In its opinion presented by the representative of the State Council at the meeting of the Committee, the Commission of the State Social Protection Council, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons endorsed the draft law. The Commission was informed that the proposal for a law was not fully harmonised, as the Student Organisation of Slovenia proposed a change in the time during which student food subsidies were allowed to be reimbursed. In the debate, the members of the Commission expressed different opinions, both positive and negative, on the proposed modification of the time limit on the use of the right to food subsidies, and finally the majority position that the SOS proposal was not sufficiently justified. The representative briefly presented the draft law and the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that they had proposed in their opinion some changes and harmonisation of terminology, which the amendments tabled by the SD Group, which follow the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, were abolished. In the debate on Article 1 of the Law, the representatives of the Slovenian Student Organisation highlighted the problem of the time limit on the use of the right to subsidised diet, as the study process was extended in the afternoon and evening hours, so they propose that subsidised student meals be offered from 9 a.m. to 21 p.m., since in 2012 the ZUJF was limited to 8 a.m. to 20 p.m. Since the Article governing the time limit was not opened, it was not possible to submit and decide on such an amendment under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. On this basis, a complementary proposal is also drawn up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u35	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The law which is before us today and which has been submitted to the National Assembly by the Government after a reduced procedure contains less difficult amendments to the law. On the basis of the proposed amendments, the beneficiaries of the subsidised student diet are otherwise identified and the account of the beneficiaries managed by the operator is an added mobile phone number and mobile phone number or e-mail address for the notification of the beneficiary, while at the same time the record does not include any data previously included. It is also established that the operator manages the records of beneficiaries eligible for additional subsidised meals per month. It shall also specify when the operator shall enter the beneficiary in the record and from when it receives the data and when it is deleted from the record. The draft law also introduces a link to the accounts of beneficiaries of subsidised student nutrition with the records of students and graduates managed by the Ministry responsible for higher vocational and higher education. Thus, on the basis of data on the single parent number, the student organisation obtains information on the student status. There is no sanctions that can no longer be imposed as a result of e-subsidisation of student nutrition, and a way of imposing sanctions has also been changed. The students' representatives proposed the adoption of an amendment to enable the use of food vouchers by 10 p.m. Unfortunately, even in our parliamentary group of this proposal, we could not support it, as it referred to an article for which no amendment was proposed in the law, and such an amendment would be inconsistent with business provisions. We will support the law in the SD Group of Members, but we will not support the amendment tabled by the SDS Group, as it is contrary to the main objective of the bill, which is the smooth implementation of student food subsidies in accordance with the electronicisation system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u37	Thank you, too. Mr Aljoša Jerič will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u38	Thank you. Say good-bye again! The proposal for a novel Law on Student Food Subsidisation is one of the acts at today's meeting that bring about at first sight small changes, which are very important for the successful implementation of laws. The main purpose of this bill is the smooth implementation of student nutrition subsidies in accordance with the electronics system, as we have known since 2010, even in the future. Therefore, on the initiative of the information officer, the use of personal data is properly regulated, in addition to including the number of mobile telephones of beneficiaries, as there has been no legal basis for the use of such data, which is essential for the implementation of the student food grant electronicisation system. At the same time, certain other data which are not relevant shall be deleted from the record. At the time of the consideration of the amendment, several times the information authority's warnings were highlighted that, in order to ensure the smooth implementation of the law and the electronicisation system for student food subsidies, the law should be adequately corrected and the number of the mobile phone should also be added to the account of the beneficiaries. The proposed solution is coordinated with the Office of the Information Commissioner, so we are not surprised to see the SDS amendment reintroduced by which they wish to delete this because they believe that the added mobile phone number of the beneficiary in the record could lead to the abuse of personal data. In addition, the draft law combines the various records, the accounts of beneficiaries of student food subsidies and the records of students and graduates managed by the Ministry responsible for higher vocational and higher education, making their exchange easier and the data on eligibility to subsidise student diets will also be updated. At the time of the consideration of the draft law on the working body, the student organisation of Slovenia pointed out the deficiencies in the use of student food subsidies, according to the time interval, since the ZUJF limits the time in which student food subsidies are allowed to be reimbursed to eight o’clock in the evening. This is not the subject of the novelty, but in the future it would be wise to consider the student proposal that, due to the nature of the pedagogical process, which takes place all day in many colleges and takes place many times in the evenings, the term of use of the subsidised student diet shifts to nine o’clock in the evening, thus making it more effective to follow the basic objective of providing at least one warm meal to students and those attending the educational process. We will support the amendment of the law in the Parliamentary Group of Unaffiliated Members of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u39	Thank you, too. Mr Branko Kurnjek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! In the Civil Gazette, we support the proposal for a law amending the Law on Student Food Subsidisation, which follows the changes in the way in which the right to subsidise student diet is exercised. The classic student vouchers have replaced the exercise of justice with electronic or mobile technology. In order to keep records, a new mobile phone number will also need to be transmitted, i.e. some additional personal data. The use of this data for the purpose of keeping records has also been coordinated with the information officer. The bill specifies or defines the beneficiaries of the subsidised student diet. The current law states that these are persons with student status who are not employed. The proposal for a law now details in more detail which students are or are not entitled to a subsidy in order to avoid ambiguities. In the Civil Gazette, we presented our concerns to the representatives of the Ministry that some specific categories of students, such as young farmers who might be entitled to subsidised food, could also be included among those listed. It is therefore necessary to verify that our concerns have been justified when it is announced and also later needed for a comprehensive overhaul of the student diet system. The issue of the day-to-day right to use a subsidised diet, which is not foreseen by the amendment of this law, was also raised at the meeting of the parent committee. The representatives of the student organisation proposed a change of this time frame from eight to twenty to nine to twenty hours, explaining that students are fully charged by such a late hour and have no opportunity to take a warm meal before, which is basically the purpose of the student food subsidy, i.e. a warm meal. We are surprised by this argument in the Citizen's List, because if it is true, then something is seriously wrong in our higher education system. Therefore, when the following new law or amendment of the current law also decides on the daily time limit on the exercise of rights, all aspects of the problem will have to be checked and the rules of the profession on healthy nutrition taken into account in the decision. This amendment to the law that we are considering today is supported in the Civil Gazette. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u41	Thank you, too. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u42	Thank you again very much for your words, Mr President. Mr Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! I'll be very brief. This is, as has been said several times before, according to my assessment of the technical law in which the objective is to continue implementing the subsidised student diet in accordance with the electronics system. It is also a more concrete definition of beneficiaries of subsidised student diet and, above all, a more transparent way. Update of information will also be possible, especially by linking individual records. Of course, there are still some open dilemmas in the student diet, but in this case, as it were said, it is a minor change, particularly a technical change. In our parliamentary group, we will support this bill's proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u43	Thank you, too. Mag. Jana Jenko will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. It's a nice greeting for everyone! The proposal for a law amending the Law on Student Food Subsidisation is more technical in nature, since it is without prejudice to the content of the rights of students they have under this law. The amendments to the Law on Student Food Subsidisation, which we are considering, pursue the following objectives: a smooth further implementation of student nutrition subsidies in accordance with the already introduced electronics scheme, a more concrete and therefore clearer definition of beneficiaries of subsidised student diet, a more transparent system of sanctioning in the event of infringements and an update of information on eligibility for subsidised student diet. The new definition of the beneficiary of the subsidised diet is more specific and does not allow for different interpretations than is possible in the term "employment" used in the applicable law. The new definition follows very clearly the fact that the main task of the student is to study and not to do anything else. Thus, in the DeSUS Group, we agree with a new eligibility policy which clearly defines that a student cannot be in a working relationship for the enforcement of a subsidy, cannot perform economic, professional or agricultural activities or managerial functions as the only or principal profession and cannot receive a second pension other than a family pension. The e-subsidisation of student meals in 2010 significantly modernised the implementation. At the same time with modernisation, the system must be designed to prevent abuse and be secure in terms of the use of personal data. In the DeSUS Group, we note that the applicant followed the warnings of the information officer and met the conditions for the proper processing and safe use of personal data, in particular with regard to the mobile phone number. In the DeSUS Group, we are convinced that by linking records between the Student Organisation of Slovenia and the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, and by obtaining the necessary information through the system of direct claims at the Institute of Health Insurance, the aim of increasing the update of the eligibility information will be achieved. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u45	Thank you, too. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable representative of the Ministry, distinguished colleague and colleague! The proposed amendments to the Student Food Subsidisation Act bring some innovations mainly in the area of the informationisation of the grant application process. The definition of beneficiaries of subsidised student diet is different, in the account of beneficiaries managed by the operator, is the added mobile phone number and mobile phone number and e-mail address for the notification of the beneficiary, but at the same time the record does not include any other data as it has been so far. It is also established that the operator manages the records of beneficiaries eligible for additional subsidised meals per month. It shall also specify when the operator enters the beneficiary into the record and where the data are obtained and when it is deleted from the record. The draft law also introduces a link between the accounts of beneficiaries of subsidised student diet and the records of students and graduates managed by the Ministry responsible for higher vocational and higher education, so that, on the basis of data on the uniform national background number of the beneficiary, the Student Organisation of Slovenia obtains information on the student status. As the area of information is sensitive due to the many misuses of personal data – we know that many times technology is ahead of regulation or legislation – we Christian Democrats are very careful in deciding to support changes in this area. We warn of caution, we warn of caution, we warn of real professional information solutions. The competent authorities should therefore ensure that the provisions of the laws are properly implemented and implemented. Members of New Slovenia will not object to the proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u47	Thank you. Ms Romana Tomc will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u48	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State with a co-worker, good afternoon! In the Slovenian Democratic Page, we will not oppose the amendment of the law, but we, like colleagues from Nova Slovenije, also point to possible traps of over-information in the Slovenian space in this area of student nutrition subsidies. Everything must be very transparent and without individual providers of these services being preferred. Let me also use a few words to regulate student diets or subsidies in our country. It is right to know that Slovenia has an extremely well-ordered area, that at the national level, we are earmarking more than €17 million per year to subsidise the grant of €2.63 per student meal and that those eligible for the grant are extremely large. They don't have the system we have in Europe anywhere else. They have an approximation of this, for example, in Germany, they are subsidized by those cafeterias that offer food to students, but not to guest restaurants, and everywhere else these things are much more restrictive. Therefore, I believe that this area in Slovenia is extremely well regulated. However, if we are talking about any improvement, then we can continue to think about equalising the rights of students and students in this area. It is true that students have rights under the so-called Law on the Exercise of Rights from Public Funds, but given that this is a similar problem, I think it would be appropriate to regulate it in the same way. As it is said, we see some technical progress in this law, of course, with the notes I initially said that it is important to be very careful about this. We also believe that another step should be taken in this area. Therefore, we will not oppose the law, and we want the law to continue to be successful.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u49	Thank you. Ms Alenka Bikar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, secretary general with co-worker, welcome! In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia we will support the amendment of the Law on Student Food Subsidisation. In fact, it is only a matter of continuing the smooth implementation of the subsidised diet following the electronicisation of the already existing system in practice, as paper student identification vouchers were replaced by mobile phones or non-contact chip cards in 2010. This means that the records managed by the Slovenian Student Organisation for the implementation of the subsidised student diet additionally include a mobile phone number or an e-mail address, but at the same time does not include any data previously included. Due to greater up-to-dateness, we also establish a link between the accounts of beneficiaries of subsidised student diets and the records of students and graduates carried out by the Ministry responsible for higher and higher education. The novelty's solutions are also in the field of concreteising the beneficiaries of this diet, as they are defined differently. Newly, these are all students who are educated in higher education and higher education institutions in Slovenia and are not in a working relationship, do not carry out economic, professional or agricultural activities or managerial functions as the only or main profession and are not recipients of pensions, except recipients of a family pension. We also include all students from foreign universities who carry out study obligations in our country under international exchange programmes. They are subject to the same conditions as students who are educated at Slovenian universities. There was also some talk at the meeting of the working body on the time when student food subsidies were possible, since the Public Finance Balance Act in 2012 limited this time limit between 8 a.m. and 12 p.m., making students not most satisfied. Since the proposal for a novelty in this area is not regulated, the amendment has therefore been withdrawn by the proposers. In doing so, let me say that in the Parliamentary Group, Positive Slovenia will not support the amendment of the SDS Group, because it actually deletes that amendment of the law for which the amendment was tabled. That's the student's cell number. However, I would like to point out that this novelty has been properly communicated with the information officer, and therefore the fear of abuse should not, in our opinion, be. In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia we are aware that this is an area with which Slovenia can boast, so we hope that the subsidisation of student diet will be possible for a number of generations that follow us or for existing students. As we say, we will support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u51	Thank you, too. We have thus concluded with a presentation of the views of the Group of Members and are moving on to a debate on the Article and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? Mrs. Romana Tomc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u52	Thank you very much. I would just like to clarify our position on the collection of additional data or telephone numbers and on the content of our amendment. Of course, we are aware that in a way that is now in force, telephones or this type of communication are of paramount importance. In fact, without this, the law cannot even be enforced in this way. We're very well aware of that. But despite all that, if we look at how the information officer acts in some other cases, where it is impossible to collect such information, then it seems to us also in this area that it is in some way a deviation from other conduct. In particular, it is questionable to my mind when these students who provide their telephone numbers with a specific purpose then receive a variety of offers on their machines or on this telephone number. This is what bothers us in this system, because it is a possibility that this number will also be used for other purposes, which we find absolutely unacceptable. As we say, we will not completely oppose the law, but we point to these shortcomings, which will certainly need to be resolved in a different way.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u53	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I note that there are no applications for debate, so I am concluding the debate. The amendment will be decided in the framework of the half-hour vote following the end of the first item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, that is to say the draft law on amendments and amendments to the law on electronic commerce and electronic signature after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Just a minute. I'm guessing we don't have you on record right now. Just a minute. I'm sorry. Mr. Aljuš Petrinac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u54	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members. The main purpose of the proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Commerce and Electronic Signatures is to remedy the deficiencies which have been demonstrated by rapid technological progress in the implementation of Article 31 of the Law on Electronic Commerce and Electronic Signatures, which issue qualified certificates, only binds to a reliable identification of the applicant by means of an official personal document containing a photograph of a natural person, i.e. to the submission of an application for a physical certificate and the physical presence of the applicant on the certification service. In order to meet the obligations imposed by the Internal Market Services Directive on Member States, the Ministry of the Interior has given an initiative to amend this law. The proposed amendment complements the proposal for a law with the text of the new second, third and fourth paragraphs of Article 31 which allows the authorising officer issuing qualified certificates to identify and verify the identity and other relevant characteristics of a natural person requiring the issue of a qualified certificate also on the basis of a valid qualified certificate issued by the certifying officer, classified on a reliable list of supervised certificates. Domestically, this means that if you already have an electronic certificate issued by one of the authorities on the list of certified authorities, then you do not have to file a personal file for an electronic or qualified certificate. The verifier issuing a qualified certificate under that procedure must verify the following information on the person requesting the issue of a qualified certificate, namely the identification code, the name and surname of the holder of the certificate or entity and the establishment of the legal person, in the case of the national authorities granting the official identification marks. If the data cannot be verified, the qualified certificate issued in this way may only be used in the system under which it was issued. Since these are the first amendments and additions to the law since its adoption, at the same time as this law, in accordance with the Law on the introduction of the euro, changes also the currency of the fines laid down in euro in accordance with the Law on the introduction of the euro and harmonises the term used by the legislation governing the economy for business entities. On the contrary, Article 48’s forecast sentence no longer provides for an organisational form, taking into account that the holder has been certified by a natural person. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u55	Thank you, too. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Sasha Kos.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present! The Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth is held at its 17th regular session. 5. 2014 considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Commerce and Electronic Signature submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. The legislative and legal service examined the proposed law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and with a legislative technical aspect and had no comments to it. In its opinion, the draft law was also supported by the Commission of the State Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport and had no comments. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport initially stated that the main purpose of the proposed amendments and the completion of the correction of deficiencies which, due to rapid technological progress, have been demonstrated in the implementation of Article 31 of the Law on Electronic Commerce and Electronic Signature, which binds the issuing of qualified certificates to a reliable identification of the applicant by means of an official photo ID document for natural persons, i.e. to the submission of an application for a physical certificate and the physical presence of the applicant on the certification service. The proposed amendments and additions to the law thus relate to the possibility of determining the applicant's identity over distance by means of an electronic identification scheme and establishing fines in euro in accordance with the Law on the introduction of the euro and harmonising the terms of the legislation governing the economy applicable to business entities. The discussion focused on ways and means of issuing digital certificates, the possibilities of electronic elections, the envisaged costs to be incurred by public institutions and smaller entrepreneurs for the introduction of electronic identification of research on the safety of the proposed service and on business entities that actually use electronic signatures. The Ministry explained, inter alia, that there are no additional costs foreseen in connection with the amendment to be adopted, that the scope of the introduction of electronic elections will also need to be regulated in the future, that rapid digital development also requires the rapid upgrading of the necessary standards and that in the event of the rejection of the novel, a business entity will have to obtain more certificates for the same service. As amendments have not been adopted to the draft law on the labour market, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth has proposed to the National Assembly that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Commerce and Electronic Signatures be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u57	Thank you, too. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Aljoša Jerič will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u58	Thank you. Your Honor! Solutions in the New Law on Electronic Commerce and Electronic Signatures represent an improvement in electronic commerce. In accordance with the Directive on services in the internal market, the issue of a qualified certificate will no longer be linked to the identification of the applicant in the event of the physical presence of the applicant, but we will also be able to do so through the authorising officer to issue a qualified certificate, and this single certificate will apply to all procedures. The digital certificate will only be issued by the certifying authority placed on the list of insured authorising officers in accordance with the Commission's decision by means of single contact points under the Internal Market Services Directive. In the Group of Unaffiliated Members of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek, we are convinced that public administration services must be re-adapted over and over again with the aim of greater user utility and satisfaction, so we will support the proposed amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr Branko Kurnjek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! In the Civil Gazette, we will support the proposal for a law on electronic commerce and electronic signature, which is in the process of adoption following a reduced procedure. The proposal for a law removes the deficiency as it has been necessary to identify a person by means of an official identification document, but it has not been possible to provide an electronic identification. In the Civil Gazette, we have already stressed in the debate on the working body that we have been living in the electronic age for some time, and it is necessary to adapt and speed up as many segments of our lives and activities as possible. Allow me to take advantage of the opportunity to comment on the current situation in which the country is located. In the Civil Gazette, we once again appeal that we step in time and seriously consider electronic elections. This situation in which we are in a situation that will be decided by the Constitutional Court today could easily be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u61	Thank you, too. Mr Janez Ribič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I believe that there is no longer an individual between us who, within his household, his own company or otherwise would not engage in electronic commerce and sign an electronic signature or qualified digital certificate. The extremely rapid development of technology forces us to do as much as possible in the operation or use of electronic services. The development of technology is the reason why the proposed amendment to the Law on Electronic Commerce and Electronic Signatures is being tabled. The proposed law amends the provisions of the law in force, which provides for a way of establishing the identity of the applicant for the issue of a qualified digital signature. Since the adoption of the Law on Electronic Commerce and Electronic Signature in 2000, this provision of the law, which provides for the identification of the carrier solely by means of a personal document, has not changed its application for a qualified digital certificate in physical form and in the physical presence of the applicant. As it is said, technological progress has made such investment obsolete, especially for the applicant who already has a qualified digital certificate. This applies in particular to business entities that use electronic commerce every day and use several digital certificates in their work. Therefore, the proposed amendment to the Law on Electronic Commerce and Electronic Signature makes it clear that the identity of the applicant for a qualified digital certificate can be determined at a distance by means of a digital certificate already used by the applicant. Such an arrangement is based on the fact that the identity of the individual who, by means of an electronic signed application, requires the issuing of a new or other qualified certificate, has already been reliably established on the basis of the current provision of Article 31 of the Act. The proposed solution also follows the legal assumption that the certifying authority or provider of qualified trustees in the certification process has verified the identity of the applicant at the level which guarantees that the identification personal data contained in the certificate with which the electronic request was signed are clearly linked to the signatory and that they represent a particular natural person. The proposed law also imposes on the verifier the obligation to verify the official identification marks assigned to the State authority granting such a mark. Where this cannot be verified, the proposed law provides that an electronic signature, created on the basis of such a qualified certificate, may be made only under the information system of the verifier which has issued a qualified certificate and can be verified outside that information system. In this way, the authorising officer may establish a system for secure electronic signature, the component of which is also the issue of qualified certificates and may be used by nationals of other Member States for which those identification data cannot be verified by the national authorities. In addition to that mentioned in the Act, the depreciated currency code which prescribes fines from tolars to euros is amended. The proposed novels of the Law on Electronic Business and Electronic Signature in the Group of the Slovenian People's Party will not be opposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u63	Thank you, too. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Representative of the Government, Honourable Member and Members of Parliament! The proposed amendments to the Law on Electronic Commerce and Electronic Signature relate, inter alia, to the possibility of identifying the applicant remotely by means of an electronic identification scheme. According to the new version, the certifying officer will also be able to verify the identity of the applicant for the issue of a qualified certificate on the basis of an already issued qualified certificate. Applicants will be able to submit a request for a qualified digital certificate to the authorising officer by means of a physical or electronic written application. The novela therefore allows for the operation of a single digital certificate. Where a qualified certificate has been issued once, such a certificate shall be considered to be genuinely identical and legitimate in all subsequent procedures and operations. This undoubtedly means an administrative burden for both applicants and the credentials. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we support all the innovations that simplify and value the procedures and at the same time enhance the safety of users. We believe that the law under consideration follows this, so we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u65	Thank you, too. Ms Ljudmila Novak will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u66	Respectable. Christian Democrats are aware that the way in which electronic or digital activity is regulated in the country also depends to a large extent on the growth of Slovenia's competitiveness. The proposed amendments to the law are mainly about harmonisation with the European legal order. Let's just point out the most important. It is good that the novelty is enforced as soon as possible that the economy and the population will be able to use digital electronic signatures to the greater extent possible, as this would save a lot of time, roads and costs, thereby increasing Slovenia's competitive advantage and ultimately Europe. In Estonia, for example, e-signatures are widespread and have proven major effects in all areas. We believe that this kind of business should be supported and expanded as much as possible in Slovenia. For us Christian Democrats, it is important to ask who can issue digital certificates and what standards it must meet. We therefore ask the Government whether the status of private issuers of digital certificates is sufficiently clear. In addition to the country, the certificates are also issued by Post Offices of Slovenia, Halcom and some others. In our view, it is essential for safe operation to know who owns the certificate. Caution shall be exercised primarily in the case of digital certificates of foreigners which cannot be verified. The European Commission should also provide a mechanism for the exchange of information for verification purposes, since only then will electronic signing be better for the purposes of signatures between the Member States of the European Union. It is also stipulated by the proposal of this Act that if the data can not be verified by the verifier, the certificate issued in this manner shall only be used in the system under which it was issued. This means that an electronic signature created on the basis of such a qualified certificate may only be made under the information system of the certifying authority which has issued the qualified certificate. However, it can, of course, also be checked outside that information system. Christian Democrats point out that the scope of this law is complex and difficult, and Slovenia unfortunately does not have any policies or strategies designed here, which is a major harm to the economy and also to the population. Members of New Slovenia will be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u67	Thank you. Mag. Branko Grims will present the position of the Ambassador of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u68	Dearly beloved everyone, also on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors! The bill before us today must have been made under the working title of Kovac's mare, always barefoot. In the Law on Electronic Commerce and Electronic Signature, it simply forgot to allow for the possibility of a new electronic certificate, a qualified certificate being obtained on the basis of a valid, already existing one. And that is now being corrected by this novel. Thus, it will not be necessary to submit a personal document at the same time to go in person when raising a new valid electronic signature or a new qualified certificate, but it will be sufficient to use an existing existing electronic certificate and obtain a new or additional one in this way. This will facilitate the acquisition of new qualified certificates to various institutions, businesses, entrepreneurs and all citizens and citizens already in possession of a valid qualified certificate. In this way, businesses, entrepreneurs and all citizens will also be able to save time and money. After all, time is money. In the SDS, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Commerce and Electronic Signature, which makes the environment more favourable to entrepreneurs and to people more pleasant and cheaper, will be supported in a uniform way.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u69	Thank you. Ms Saša Kos will present the position of the Group of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u70	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members! Electronic signature and e-business have been legally regulated in Slovenia since 2000, when the applicable Electronic Business Act was adopted. This, together with the regulation adopted later, laid down the conditions for the issue and use of electronic signatures and confirmed the legal validity of electronic documents and electronic signatures, the infrastructure of the certifying authorities and so on. Today's rapid pace of life and business also requires the intensive use of ever-increasing new tools that simplify and speed up the processes and processes that have been put in place. Upon the entry into force of this Act in 2000 and its completion in 2004, it was unlikely that any of us would have expected that technology would develop to such an extent that electronic commerce, which was then only an exception, would gradually, but reliably replace the so-called classic paper business and for people with plenty of time. With years and global e-commerce, this will lose the prefix "e", as it certainly becomes the only effective form of business. Electronic commerce has become a way of private and public life, covering electronic banking, insurance, marketing and trading, online commerce, computer support, group work, cooperation and work, education, counselling and distance auctions. However, the development of technologies and electronic services has recently created new challenges before the regulation of electronic commerce and electronic signature, particularly how to overcome all emerging circumstances within existing legislation. The new law that we are dealing with today means this: that is, by supplementing the law, the shortcomings that have been demonstrated in the application of the law in practice are addressed and electronic commerce is facilitated by simplifying the procedure. The Positive Slovenia Group is aware of the importance of electronic commerce, which must be regulated in such a way that it is as safe and user-friendly as possible. For this reason, the Positive Slovenia Group announces support for the law that we are considering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u71	Thank you, too. Mr Branko Smodiš will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dearly beloved, good afternoon! The Law on Electronic Business and Electronic Signatures is one of those laws that do not give rise to controversial debates by content. This is why rare changes have been made, the last adopted 10 years ago, technical adaptations to technological innovation and the requirements of the European directives. In our debates, social democrats are constantly reminding us that special concerns must be addressed in the field of business in the digital environment. Simplifications brought about by electronic commerce are one of the greatest advances in modern times, but the potential for abuse must be reduced, in particular as regards the identification of individuals using different electronic services. It is therefore important that procedures and technology equipment are precisely defined and uniform. The proposed amendment administratively simplifies the issue of a qualified certificate certifying the security of electronic signature. This has so far been related only to the submission of an application for a physical certificate and to the physical presence of the applicant at the certification service. However, upon acceptance of the proposal, the certifying authority issuing the qualified certificates will be able to identify and verify the identity and other relevant characteristics of the natural person requiring the issue of a qualified certificate, also on the basis of a valid qualified certificate issued by the certifying authority, on the basis of a reliable list of certified authorities. The proposed amendments will also allow other projects, such as a single contact point, to enable domestic and foreign entities to enter the market more easily with simple electronicly supported licensing procedures and the application of all other formalities relating to the establishment and operation of business entities. Finally, the implementation of this supplement will facilitate the development and use of state-of-the-art e-business solutions to the Slovenian public and private sector. The parliamentary group of Social Democrats will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u73	Thank you, too. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, the amendments could not be tabled at the assembly meeting, so I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made within half an hour following the end of the first item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments to the School Food Act after the termination of the procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Aljuš Pertinac, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u74	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. President of the National Assembly. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the School Diet Act is without prejudice to the basic principles of the applicable law, as the proposed amendments to the procedure further implement one of the basic objectives of the law, which is a simpler and more transparent procedure. There are also no implications for public funds. The main solutions proposed are: amendments and additions to the applicable law relating to the alignment of the text of the School Food Act with the provisions of the Law on the Realisation of Rights from Public Funds, namely the new provision on entitlements to a snack or lunch subsidy, so that only those legal materials which have not been transferred into the Law on the Realisation of Rights from Public Resources are retained and the provisions of which the content has been fully transposed are deleted. The provisions of the law governing which records must be kept by schools in relation to school meals are amended. So far, schools from the Information System of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities through the Information System of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, which is the application of the central register of participants in education and education, have received data on eligibility for the subsidy under the Decision on the subsidy for lunch. Now they will receive the data in the same way, but directly from the Children's Supplement Decision. The law on the exercise of rights from public funds-C provides that the recovery of unjustifiably received rights is required by the payer of rights, which may also partially or fully cancel the debt. Since the entire register of applications for lunches of beneficiaries of subsidies and actually received subsidised meals is maintained by schools which also issue accounts for the difference to parental subsidies, schools are the only ones who can conduct appropriate procedures for possible recovery of unduly received subsidies or write-offs in consultation with the competent social work centres. In this regard, I would like to point out that an amendment has been tabled proposing that, due to the complexity of the procedure, the debt write-off procedure should lead the competent ministry, namely the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. It is proposed that the provision be amended by an amendment in which only recovery procedures are transferred to school. Initially, it was thought that this would be addressed by amending the Law on Financing Education and Education. As you know, the National Assembly will not consider amending the Law on Financing for Education and Education, so the provision is governed by the proposed amendment to the proposal of this Act. In particular, I would like to point out that it is important that the proposed amendments and additions are adopted, including the proposed amendment, or that schools will not be able to access data on the beneficiaries in the central register in the autumn and will consequently have to obtain data from parents or send lists to social work centres. However, the proposed amendment is also in line with the Office of the Information Commissioner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u75	Thank you, too. The draft law was also considered by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Sasha Kos.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u76	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Fellows and Honourable Fellows! The Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth is held at its 17th regular session. 5. 2014 considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the School Diet Act submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. In its opinion, the Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport supported and considered that the procedures for granting and controlling eligibility to subsidise school nutrition should be simplified. The Commission also raised the issue of the systemicity of the law, which the Legislative and Legal Service had pointed out in its opinion. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport initially stated that the amendments and additions relate to the harmonisation of the text of the current law with the provisions of the Law on the exercise of rights from public resources. He explained that the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds provides that the recovery of an unjustified right shall be required by the payer, who may also partially or in full cancel the debt. Since the register of applications for lunch, the eligibility of subsidies and actually received subsidised meals are maintained by schools which also issue invoices in contrast to parental subsidies, it is laid down that schools are the only ones who can conduct appropriate procedures for possible recovery of unduly received subsidies or write-offs in consultation with the competent social work centres. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented their opinion and drew attention to the significant deviation in the amendment of the proposed solution to the system-wide resolution of the problem of returns, the unjustifiable public funds paid, including the subsidisation of student and student lunches and lunches. In this regard, it also drew attention to concerns of a constitutional nature related to respect for the principle of equality, in terms of the protection of personal data and to the vaguely formulated text. In the discussion on the recovery of unlawfully received subsidies and the write-off of debts, some considered that, under the provisions of the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds, it was laid down that in such cases a social work centre or a right payer was empowered to act, following the principle of uniformity of the exercise of rights from public resources and the principle of economics. The application of all rights from public funds shall be ensured in one place and in one procedure and decided on by one decision in a uniform way to identify the material situation and the circle of persons. They also said that the principle of economics was consistently enforced, which would provide us with a quick and efficient process of exercising rights with as little cost as possible. However, it was explained by the Ministry that the subsidy is for lunch or lunch for a specific purpose, as it is an indirect benefit from public resources which is not decided by a decision in the administrative procedure and is fully linked to the recognised right to a child allowance. Thus, the entitlement to a subsidy for lunch or lunch shall be determined without an application, solely on the basis of the applicable decision on the child allowance or the State grant, which shall show the average monthly income per family member. Thus, the competent centre for social work does not have the necessary data regarding the recovery of unjustifiablely received subsidies for lunch or lunch, and it would be more appropriate to require a school which only has the necessary data. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u77	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Branko Kurnjek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u78	Mr President, once again a very nice greeting for everyone! In the Civil Gazette, we will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplementing the School Diet Act, which has been transmitted following a reduced procedure and brings in line with the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Resources until the beginning of the next school year, 2014/2015. An amendment was adopted on the committee responsible, which deleted Article 7, which amends Article 18th of the current law, making it irrelevant to the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group, which will be discussed again today. I say by now that the Civil Code supports this amendment. In order to obtain a subsidy for lunch or lunch, indirect receipts from public funds do not need to be granted or this right is not decided by a decision in the administrative procedure, as it fully relates to the recognised right to a child allowance. And since schools are the ones that keep records of school nutrition applications and the only ones with the necessary data on the amount of unjustifiable subsidies received, they are also those who can conduct procedures for possible recovery of unduly received subsidies. Let me also point out the peculiarity, the unusualness, or if you want an anomaly concerning the subsidisation of the diet of students, students and students we have here. If, on the one hand, we have a system of subsidisation of student diets designed so that the amount of the subsidy is not affected by the social situation of the individual student or his parents or guardians, it is quite the opposite of subsidising school diet. The amount of the subsidy depends on the social position of the parents or guardians of the individual schoolmaster. The only right thing to do is to subsidise at least one meal per student in the same way as for students. So, regardless of social status. Finally, the amount of food subsidies is one of those things that differentiates or distributes individual students. As I have already announced in the introduction, we will support the draft amendments to the Civil Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u79	Thank you, too. Mr Janez Ribič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Your Honor! In the current mandate, the issue of school nutrition has often been placed on the agenda of our discussions. Let us just remember the bile debates at the time of the adoption of the ZUJF two years ago or the discussions in the context of the adoption of the 2013 budget changes, which provided additional financial resources for the nutrition of students and students. These funds were then put into practice by the adoption of the new School Diet Act just before the end of 2012, which also limited the discussions on the hungry children we had received throughout the second half of 2012. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we unanimously supported the new School Diet Act as it established more favourable criteria for access to free school meals. Thus, it has been established for pupils that free lunches are eligible for anyone who has a monthly average income per person found in the Children’s Supplement Decision does not exceed 53 % of the net average monthly salary and in the case of students, a full subsidy of up to 4 years of child supplement or up to 42 % of the net average monthly salary is to be a 70 % subsidy for the 5th grade and for the 6th grade the meal will be subsidised at 40 % of the retail price. In practice, it means that in a five-member family with three compulsory children or adolescents, monthly income can be around 2 000 50 and all children will still receive free lunches. Such arrangements have proved to be very successful in practice, as the percentage of students involved in the school diet scheme at lunch is almost 100 % and at lunch approximately 68 %. Students applied for lunch are about 65%, which means that all the funds provided have not yet been fully used up. The proposed amendments to the School Diet Act are not excessively extensive, since the proposed text is mainly intended to comply with the provisions of the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds. The School Diet Act thus retains only that legal material which has not been transferred to the above-mentioned law. In addition, provisions relating to school nutrition records maintained by schools derogating from the system regime laid down in social legislation are being amended. The original text of Article 7 of the proposed law, which was deleted from the proposal by adopting an amendment to the Committee, provided that schools should also conduct recovery procedures for unduly received subsidies or debt write-off procedures. This non-systemicity has also been pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service, since it is the only appropriate authorised centre for social work to ensure uniform application of rights from public funds. The authority which decides on a particular right is also responsible for all the changes relating to that right and therefore the deletion of that provision from the proposed law was completely understandable and logical. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are aware that the healthy and regular diet of our schooling children and youth is extremely important for their health and development. Together, we must work to ensure that as many of them as possible are included in the school diet system, with as few administrative burdens as possible for their parents. Member and Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposed amendment to the School Diet Act, but we will not support the proposed amendment [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] which reintroduces in the proposed law the non-systemic arrangement for the recovery of overpaid subsidies, as we believe that this must remain under the exclusive competence of social work centres. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. The position will be presented by Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. Honourable representative of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia we will support the news in the novel of the School Diet Act because we believe that it is an urgent change that will facilitate the implementation of school food subsidies. Otherwise, it's not a big change. However, the proposed amendments to the law are necessary in order to comply with the last adopted amendment of the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, which in the work relating to rights relating to the school system begins to apply to the new school year, which is from 1 September this year. The initial government proposal for a novelty also provided that the school could request the recovery of unjustifiably received subsidies and that the school could also decide on the possible cancellation of an individual’s debt. In the DeSUS Group, we generally agree that all procedures in all areas need to be simplified, streamlined and managed in one place. This was also the purpose of social legislation, namely the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds and the Law on Social Security Benefits, which was adopted in 2010. The fact is that the situation of the subsidy for lunch or lunch is slightly different from that of the general public, because the eligibility for the subsidised diet is linked to the decision on the child allowance; the latter is decided by the Centre for Social Work. In the event of repealing or repealing the Children’s Supplement Decision, the Centre for Social Work will only decide on the return of the unduly received child allowance, not on the subsidy for food. The procedure would be governed by the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport under the applicable law on the exercise of rights from public funds. Given that this is already being decided in practice by a specific school where the beneficiary is being educated, in the DeSUS Group we consider it appropriate to keep it that way, since the school does not finally have all the necessary information available. The amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors regulates this in an appropriate manner, so we will support this amendment in the DeSUS Group of Members, and we will also support the whole amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mrs Ljudmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u84	Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! We believe that there is a need for a comprehensive regulation of school nutrition. We expect that this will be an important task for the government in the next term. This sensitive area is often misused for the cost-effective collection of political points, which is damaging to the whole system, and in particular, we take the dignity of those families and children who are truly weak and need help. The regulation of subsidisation of school meals, in particular because of the unfavourable social conditions in which families with educated children are particularly sensitive. In Nova Slovenija we claim that the basic meal should belong to every primary school child, as we get paid lunch workers, because parents who have higher incomes also pay higher taxes and contributions to the country. Unfortunately, in Slovenia we have really complicated this system to the end. At the same time, we must be aware that we can afford only as much as we can afford to pay. Slovenians produce quality and healthy food. The decision makers are responsible for doing everything we can to make more logical and rational solutions when choosing suppliers for school kitchens in the spirit of supporting local farmers and farmers and processors. "Healthful nutrition and recommended forms and the scope of movement or sports activities contribute significantly to the prevention of disease, premature mortality and disability and to the quality of life of the population," the Resolution on the National Food Policy Programme in Slovenia states. We Christian Democrats know that we are the first to be responsible for children and thus for the nutrition education of parents, and then the educators and teachers. We believe that the next government will make quality and comprehensive proposals for school nutrition in the interests of children. Members of New Slovenia will be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Grill will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u86	That's a nice hello to you all! We will not oppose amendments to the School Diet Act in the SDS Group because it is a matter of aligning this law with the provisions of the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds. The proposal introduces a new provision on beneficiaries of a subsidy for lunch or lunch, amending the provision setting out which records should be kept by schools with regard to school meals or the provision by which schools will receive the information on eligibility of the subsidy as set out in the Children's Supplement Decision. The law also provides a new provision allowing schools to request the recovery of unjustifiably received subsidies and ensuring that schools decide to cancel their debt themselves. In the SDS Group, we objected to this proposed regulation. Following a warning from the Legal and Legislative Service, we have tabled an amendment to the Committee for a second hearing, as the proposed solution to the law does not follow the principle of economics. According to the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds, for action related to the recovery of unduly received public funds and the decision on write-off, an authorised centre for social work or a payer. Such arrangements follow the principle of uniformity and the principle of economics, which means that the exercise of rights from public funds is ensured in one place, in one procedure and decided on by one decision, and the parties are thus provided with a quick and effective procedure with as little cost as possible. These starting points were not followed by the proposed solution in the proposal for a law, since it would impose additional administrative work on schools and, finally, the school would request an opinion for a partial or full entry by the competent authority, i.e. the centre for social work. In the parliamentary group, we were pleased that our amendment was obviously adopted by mistake on the committee, and this solution now, with the new amendment to be adopted by the coalition, is returning to the solution that we do not support in the parliamentary group. However, we would like to point out in the SDS Group that this law will certainly not solve the problem of payment non-discipline or the problem of hungry children rather than hungry children in schools, because they are certainly not there and must not be, but hungry children at home. At home, the pressure of people is increasing, higher than it was in 2012, and with all the new and higher burdens that this government, Alenka Bratušek, has imposed on every family this year, it is difficult for many to pay that part of the subsidised lunch to the full price, especially in secondary schools where the amounts are significantly higher than in primary schools, and therefore subsidies in the field of secondary school are not fully exploited. We are aware that the financial situation in Slovenia is critical and that there are no funds. However, because of the growing hardship of people, it will be necessary to think about how to provide primary school children with at least one free meal a day. As we said at the outset, we will vote against the amendment tabled in the parliamentary group and we will not oppose the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Alenka Lampe.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u88	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues! School nutrition in the Republic of Slovenia is governed by the School Diet Act in conjunction with the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds and the Law on the Balance of Public Finance. The School Diet Act applies to all primary and secondary schools and primary schools in the framework of education and education institutions for children and young people with special needs in the Republic of Slovenia implementing public education programmes. The beneficiaries of the food subsidy are those pupils and pupils who are regularly educated and are entitled to a subsidy under the law governing the exercise of rights from public funds. Finally, the School Diet Act was amended in 2012. At that time, a new eligibility scale was also established, allowing for subsidised school nutrition for a large number of pupils and pupils. The Novela has also foreseen significantly simpler procedures for these rights. We are currently faced with the fact that part of the content governing the subsidy is regulated by the School Food Act and part of the law on the enforcement of rights from public funds. This could, in the view of the applicant, be a problem for the Government to implement both laws in practice or create difficulties in the exercise of the rights to subsidised nutrition in the school year 2014/2015. For this reason, harmonisation of the texts is envisaged. In practice, therefore, the solution will lead to greater transparency and clarity in school nutrition rules, contributing to the legal security of citizens and citizens. For this reason, the proposed law will be supported in the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Mr State Secretary with Director of Directorates, Members and Members of Parliament! Social Democrats were most decisively affected by the legal substance of school nutrition regulation when we considered that the secondary school meal was also an area where the contribution from public funds should be differentiated. We believe that is the case, and that remains for primary schools. The view that matters in the student diet should also be regulated in the same way has been heard from another parliamentary group's point of view. However, we have heard at least two different aspects of school nutrition in the public. One is the issue of hungry children, which is then linked to charity and various humanitarian actions. Social Democrats, however, believe that these matters must be regulated at a systemic level and therefore the School Diet Act is certainly the right place. However, the second issue to be addressed at systemic level is certainly the enforcement of appropriate eating habits that would prevent different civilisational diseases. The last one is definitely obesity. Here we note that, following the resolution on the national food policy programme 2005/2010, it is certainly high time for us to also get a new resolution on the national food and physical activities programme, which is in preparation for the period 2014-2023. Finally, it is also a matter of warning the World Health Organisation that more needs to be done to ensure health in all policies through the implementation of strategic documents in the field of nutrition and physical activity. Also in the diet. This certainly applies to our country. A healthy meal in school is essential. Here I think that it is made substantially more in primary schools and secondary schools and in student nutrition by providing vouchers only partially. Let's see what the data on the involvement of children in school meals is. It must certainly be said that 98.30 % of enrolled pupils are enrolled in lunch in primary school. Almost half of these are eligible for a complete subsidy. While 112 thousand 544 students registered for lunch are from a little over 166 000 enrolled in this school year, 67.70% of enrolled students. And it was with those who were registered for lunch that another problem to talk about, including the non-payment of lunches, erupted. Free lunch is provided for 13,30 % of pupils. Failure to pay was a problem that we also encounter under this law. We will support the law by supporting the Social Democrats, and at the same time we are trying to remove the gap created by the adoption of the SDS amendment with the re tabled amendment. We ask for the support of this amendment, which has also been recognised as appropriate by the Legal and Legislative Service, and is also in line with the Information Commissioner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Mr Aljoša Jerič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Respected and respected! In 2012, when the 2013 and 2014 budgets were adopted, the amendments provided additional funds for school nutrition, as Janez Janša's Government, with the Public Finance Balance Act, also made use of funds to finance school nutrition. On the basis of the increase in funds, a new School Food Act was also adopted, which allowed school nutrition to reach a significantly higher number of pupils and students, and an increase in the number of beneficiaries for lunch subsidies in primary school. An additional amendment to the law relates to the recovery of unlawfully received rights. With the adoption of the amendment tabled today, we will allow, in accordance with the Law on the Exercise of Rights from Public Funds of the School, which solely manages all records of claims for the benefit of beneficiaries of the subsidy and actually of the subsidised instalments taken, to conduct procedures for possible repayments of unduly received subsidies or write-offs of debts. We support the amendment of the law in the Parliamentary Group of Unaffiliated Members of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek and we will vote in favour of its adoption. In doing so, I would like to express my satisfaction that, with the school year beginning in the autumn, we will only regulate the area of food subsidies in this law, which contains better and more favourable solutions for children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u93	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled, or we are moving on to the debate on Article 7 and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 7 and the amendment of the Group of Social Democrats. He wants to discuss mag. Majda Potter. Anyone else? The word has magic. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. The text of the amendment, which is available for tomorrow's vote, is a proposal that does not affect the economy, nor does it undermine the principle of decision-making in one place. It is wrong to believe that social work centres could regulate the things proposed by this amendment. There's only one problem. This refund is too much subsidy received. But he's no longer in this debt write-off amendment. That's something I'd like to remind you of. It is simply that social work centres that decide on the amount of the child allowance, but this decision and the amount of the child allowance are also the starting point for determining the amount of the subsidy for lunch or the entitlement to a subsidised lunch. So the social work centre issues only a decision on the child's allowance. Nowhere does it collect data on whether the child is registered for lunch or for lunch, nor does it collect data from the centres on how many times the child has had lunch or lunch. So they don't have this particular data that only the school has. That is why it is the right and duty of the school to arrange, indeed, for the beneficiary to pay, and this is the Ministry of Education, which allocates funds to subsidise school nutrition, but, as it is said, the person with the data is only a school that has information for a specific participant in education. This information shall only be used for this purpose and therefore it shall not be seen as a hindrance to this amendment by the information officer, as this information is only used for a specific purpose. So we ask the Social Democrats to correct what was done on the home labour body when the SDS amendment was adopted to delete this whole article. So somewhere there must be an instrument, it must be regulated to return the overpayment from public funds to an individual who has not exercised this right, which has been granted by the School Diet Act, and for whatever reason has remained unused, this right has not been consumed. In particular, I would point out that it is the law itself — several times in the views of the parliamentary groups today explain what is actually governed by this law. No new right to be eligible for school meals is regulated, nor is it reintroduced, only those things that need to be regulated with the first September of this new school year are regulated, so that things can function as they should, and that data will be transmitted from those who have the data, so that we do not expect data from those who do not have the data. I would stress that the Centre for Social Work does not have this data, so the amendment also followed the recommendations of the Legislative and Legal Service accordingly. If you look at the report or if you read the magnetogram, the Legislative and Legal Service has already identified an amendment that has been prepared for the mother's working body to follow the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Alush Pertinac, Secretary of State, asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u96	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice-President. So that there is no doubt: nothing non-systemic is proposed by this amendment, which is proposed. On the contrary, we're just following the system that already is. If you look at Article 44 of the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds, in the second paragraph it is said that indirect remuneration in the form of reduced payment of kindergartens, indirect receipt in the form of a grant of transport for pupils and students, a subsidy of lunch for pupils and students, a subsidy of lunch for pupils and so on. Reimbursement of unfairly received rights in the form of indirect remuneration shall be required by the payer of the right. In short, the Law on the Exercise of Rights from Public Funds itself states that indirect remuneration is paid to the person who pays the right. Now Article 6 of the Amendments and Supplement to the School Food Act, which amends Article 17, paragraph 1, states: "The school keeps a record of school meals that include data on a child or a student or a student who is registered for school meals." And then he lists all the data that the school keeps in its records. In short, the school is the one with the data, the school is the one who is in the final stage implementing the school food subsidy system, the school is the one who grants and takes the right. Only the right is derived from the decision of the Centre for Social Work, as Mrs Majda Potrate has just explained very well. In short, non-systematic and, above all, from the point of view of people, it would be unreasonable to have an arrangement whereby someone else or a department with no data to be able to make a decision would have to do so. At the same time, it does not have a basis for obtaining information at all so that it can decide. It would be even worse, in our opinion, if the Centre for Social Work had to decide on this. In cooperation with the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, we have been working for a long time to amend their legislation in a way that now allows the right to school diet to be decided by the decision of the CSOD to issue a child supplement and then through communications, electronic systems to transfer this data to school and then the school does so itself. If the proposed amendment to this article had not been adopted, we would have taken a step back, in short, something that we have already corrected in social protection legislation in some way from the point of view of people would have deteriorated in terms of the practicality of implementation. It seems to us that this is not necessary because the system as proposed is already in force. Schools will not be burdened because they are already making decisions. In short, there is no additional burden to be imposed on schools and no non-systemic solution proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? The word has magic. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the Secretary of State and to all present! I must say, in the first place, I am pleased that the subsidy for lunch or lunch is linked to the right to a child supplement. With this informationing of the process, we have made life easier for our citizens once they play the role and the administration solves and transmits the data to the right addresses. I'm not going to talk about this marriage as a specialist or as a magistrate in the field of public administration, but as a mother. I will confirm this law, and I will also confirm the amendment of the Social Democrats, because it follows normal life situations. Parents are practically informed by 8 a.m. each morning whether our child will attend a lunch or whether he is sick or perhaps absent for a month, or whether he will attend any other activities that are not related to the school. And those parents who have the right to a subsidized lunch and lunch tell the school, and the school is the only one who has that information. For me, the amendment of the Social Democrats means everything in one place. This is reported to schools, and the school is the one with this information. And if there is an unjustified payment, or if something changes in the process, the school is the one that will be most accurate, the most up-to-date and, of course, the most consistent of these possible overpayments can demand back. For this reason, I will support the amendment and the law itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss the amendment? The word has magic. Leila Hercegovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! I'll be brief. The positive Slovenia will support the amendment of the Social Democrats. Why? Because it's easy to remove an anomaly that's been before and is unnecessary. Indeed, the social work center is not credible for such things. It is the school that must keep records and also accept reimbursements. We will support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss the amendment tabled or Article 7? If he doesn't want to, I'm closing the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the first item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. At the time of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments and additions to the law on political parties within the framework of the shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. For further explanation of the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the present magus. Renati Zatler, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Respected and respected, hello! In accordance with Article 3 of the Electoral and Referendum Campaign Act, the Government has submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for amendments and additions to the Political Parties Act, which will implement minor amendments to the applicable law, which relate in particular to a clearer definition of the criteria relating to the possibility of obtaining additional funds from the State budget intended for the functioning of the parliamentary groups under the Law on Members, a change in the obligation of payment service providers to provide information on contributors' contributions, a clearer financing arrangement in the event that more parties submit a common list of candidates or a joint candidate for elections, and a proposal for a common candidate for election campaign is set out by one party in accordance with Article 3 of the Electoral and Referendum Campaign Act. And to ensure greater protection of personal data; it is data on the tax number of natural persons who have given the loan to the customer. It should be pointed out that the amendment of the Political Parties Act, which was adopted last December, took into account all the recommendations made by Greece concerning the provision of greater transparency in the financing of political parties, the restriction of corruption risks, the availability of data from the party's annual report, higher fines for offences, more effective control over the financing of political parties and appropriate sanctioning to prevent violations of the law. The government has recently taken note of the opinion of Greece, namely that Slovenia has made a commendable change to legislation, both the Electoral and Referendum Campaign Act and the Political Parties Act, and that the new legislation is in line with the Greek recommendations and ensures greater transparency of political financing. Why is that important? Because, on a proposal from Members of the Committee at the meeting of the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, amendments have been adopted which, in our view, do not comply with the purposes or objectives pursued by both the Law on Political Parties and the Law on Election and Referendum Campaigns. Inadequate solutions that need to be highlighted; these include raising cash transactions or paying from €50 to €420. We believe that this change will allow for the untransparent and uncontrolled financing of political parties. With limited cash operations, we actually wanted to limit corruption risks, and raising the cash contribution could be a perimeter for financing political parties. In our view, there is also a contentious provision which introduces the possibility for a political party to transfer the prohibited payments for humanitarian purposes only after the auditor or the Court of Auditors has determined it. It should be noted that, under the current law, a party must, if it finds that the payment is prohibited, either according to the source of funding from a legal person or according to the level allowed, if the donor is a natural person, transfer those payments for humanitarian purposes within 30 days of the payment received. There is a fear that the prohibited payments will not be taken into account, perhaps even consciously, and they will wait for irregularities to be identified by the auditor. Given the frequency of the audit, the regularity of the conduct of political parties can on average occur once every four years. We believe that a provision that reduces fines for offences is also controversial. The fines, in view of the proposal now being adopted, are also too low in relation to the Electoral and Referendum Campaign Act. In addition, a legal person who makes an unlawful contribution to a party shall be subject to a more stringent sanction than the party who accepts that contribution. The proposed provision, which consists of several paragraphs, also causes a breach of the other provisions of the law. The reduction in the amount of fines and the amendment of Article 28 of the Act in general constitute a step backwards and a failure to comply with the recommendations of the Greeks, and this is clearly a recommendation relating to the need to raise the upper limit of sanctions in the Political Parties Act, so that these sanctions will be effective, proportionate and dissuasive in practice, and to ensure that the party does not retain the funds it has acquired in breach of the Political Parties Act. To sum up, the Government's proposal aimed at minor technical amendments to the law has now been substantially amended and, in our view, is no longer in line with the purposes or objectives pursued by the Political Parties Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Jerk Čehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u104	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Nice greeting to the Secretary of State and, of course, to everyone else! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Government, as the parent working body, considered the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Political Parties submitted by the Government for consideration. The board took a look at the materials. Representative of the proposer, State Secretary mag. Renata Zatler, in her supplementary explanation of the articles, said that the proposed law brought about minor changes that address some of the inconsistencies or shortcomings of the current regulation and would contribute in particular to facilitating the implementation of the law in practice. The draft law sets out more clearly the total amount of funds from which a party can obtain up to 50% of the funds from the State budget, which are intended to provide additional professional assistance to the sending groups. The proposal provides that contributions by a natural person above 50 euros will have to be paid either by credit payments or by direct debits to the payer's payment account through payment service providers, thereby ensuring that all and unchanged payment data are transferred and that false payer identification data are not provided. The draft law also provides more clearly that the payment service provider is liable to provide data on the payer to the payee of the payee. The law also amends part of the provision relating to the listing of personal data which payment service providers are obliged to provide to the customer and which enable the identification of the persons who have contributed to the customer. The draft law also clearly regulates financing where several parties submit a common list of candidates or propose a common candidate for elections, and one party is designated as the organiser of the electoral campaign, so that the general prohibition on the financing of political parties by legal persons does not apply to transfers of funds between political parties in the event of joint funding of an electoral campaign. The proposed law provides greater protection for the personal data of natural persons who have lent the loan to the parties. The proposal also provides the legal basis for the Court of Auditors to collect personal data enabling identification from the register of transaction accounts and from the tax register for the purposes of carrying out the audit, while allowing parties to verify the data on nationality in the Republic of Slovenia of natural persons who are not party members and who have contributed to the party for humanitarian purposes. With regard to the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service, the representative of the applicant considered that no corrections were necessary. The representative of the proposer also objected to most of the Committee's amendments, namely the proposal that implements the amount for financing of customers by natural persons in cash, as well as proposals that reduce fines for certain offences. The solution was also deemed to be inappropriate in view of the current arrangements for the review of the customer's regularity of business. Representative of the Legal and Legislative Service mag. Saša Bricelj Podgornik presented the comments made in their written opinion. With regard to the content of the provision, which is amended by Article 1 of the draft law and allows parties to obtain funds for the work of the groups of Members, she drew attention to the comment made by the PSC in its opinion on the legislative amendment of the law. With regard to Article 3 of the bill, she pointed out that it is unacceptable to collect both personal data on EMSU and tax numbers for the identification of an individual, since both personal data allow for the full identification of an individual. With regard to Article 4 of the bill relating to the financing of the electoral campaign in the case of the common lists of candidates for elections, she pointed out the inappropriate placement of this provision in the Political Parties Act, since the financing of the electoral campaign was systematically governed by the Law on Elections and Referendum Campaigns. In view of the fact that the Resolution on the Dismantling of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and the call for early elections to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia have already called for elections, the ZPS also points out that the principle of legality in electoral procedures requires that all electoral activities should be carried out in accordance with the rules in force at the time of the call for elections, which should also be taken into account with regard to the proposed solutions. The representative of the ZPS also expressed some concerns about the proposed amendments to the Committee. The opinion of the Commission of the Council of State on State arrangements was presented by Councillor Jernej Verbič. He said the Commission does not support the bill. As key amendments to this amendment, the debate highlighted solutions relating to the financing of the electoral campaign in the case of common candidate lists. The proposed amendments allow the transfer of funds from the transaction account of one party to the transaction account of the party which is the organiser of the electoral campaign, thus providing for an exemption from the general prohibition on the financing of political parties by legal entities introduced by the last amendment of the law. In explanation of vote before the final vote on all articles of the draft law, the representative of the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code expressed opposition to the amendments adopted by the Committee [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] The Committee's adopted amendments undermine the solutions established by the previous amendment of the law precisely with a view to making political parties' operations more transparent. [[...]] On the basis of Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee adopted the amendments to Articles 1, 2, 3, 5 and 8, and finally adopted and adopted all the articles of the draft law together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Given that there is a slightly changed order in relation to some cancellations of the presentation of the position, I would tell you that the order of shifting positions will be as follows: the Slovenian People's Party's Group, followed by the Democratic Parties of the Pensioners of Slovenia, then the New Slovenia, the Positive Slovenia and the National List. The first one has the floor to present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! At the end of last year, in the National Assembly, we adopted a revolutionary amendment to the Political Parties Act, which greatly tightened the supervision of political parties' operations, limited their funding, and also regulated certain issues that arose in the implementation of the law. The adopted law thus imposed a ban on the financing of political parties by all legal entities and independent entrepreneurs, which we have supported all the time in the Slovenian People's Party. However, we have pointed out that so severe a ban on the financing of political parties by private resources has almost no country in the European Union. In addition, this can seriously put greater pressure on national and local budgets. The law also limited the amount of contributions made by natural persons to the parties and fixed the maximum amount of cash contributions for 50 euros. Donations exceeding this amount must be made through banks, savings banks or other payment service providers. In practice, however, the implementation of these provisions of the law has proved impossible, and today we have a new amendment to the Law on Political Parties, which, on the basis of a recommendation from the Association of Banks of Slovenia, amends the provision of Article 22 of the Law. It is thus laid down that the natural person who makes a contribution to the party through the bank must, in addition to its height, provide additional information on the name, surname, date of birth and, of course, the address. The second reason why we are amending the Political Parties Act in such a short time is a more specific provision of Article 21 of the Act, which provides for the possibility for a party to obtain up to 50% of the appropriations of the State budget allocated to the so-called Section for Professional Assistance or Education of Members, as provided for in the contract between the Party and the National Assembly. These provisions could not be implemented in practice either, as there was no clear common mass of funds, so today's amendment makes it clear that this is a matter for the funds set out in the financial plan for additional professional assistance to the sending groups and that the proposal for conclusion of the contract falls under the exclusive competence of the head of the delegation and no longer of the individual Member. Finally, the proposed law provides even more clearly for the financing of the parties during the elections, in particular in the case of the submission of a common list by several parties. In the parliamentary group, we support greater transparency in the conduct of political parties who, in public, hand to heart, do not enjoy almost any reputation. We have also confirmed this by supporting the latest amendment to the Political Parties Act. However, the adoption of this amendment has made it clear that in an effort to ensure greater transparency, the implementation of individual provisions of the law should be considered in particular. What problems will therefore be faced by those most affected by the law — just to mention the obligation to count electoral posters, brought to life by the amendment of the Electoral and Referendum Campaign Act, which was adopted in a package with the latest amendment to the Political Parties Act. In addition to the exceptional increase in the cost of printing posters to be paid by the organiser of the campaign, this provision did not bring any added value for greater transparency. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we hope that we have learned something from this lesson, and this will teach us how handball and like moves work significantly better in theory than in practice. Nevertheless, we will support the proposed amendment to the Political Parties Act by the Member and Members of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u108	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Respected and respected! Key solutions towards transparent financing for political parties, towards the public accessibility of data from the annual reports of the parties and towards more effective control were included in the novel we adopted last year. It is a matter of limiting donations to political parties, limiting the acquisition of loans and different distribution of public money between larger and smaller customers. We supported these solutions in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, as we still believe they will help prevent corruption, conflicts of interest, clientism and nepotism. Despite the fact that these solutions are the result of repeated coordination by representatives of the National Assembly and the Government, it has proved that some of the provisions in practice are impractical or difficult to implement, and only this is why the Government has approached the recast of the law and that we have also requested an extraordinary meeting. This is a minor change that does not affect the solutions adopted in substance, and therefore the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia does not oppose the solutions so proposed. After all, some news was also adopted on the Committee yesterday afternoon. The DeSUS delegation agreed with the higher threshold of the grant granted by natural persons. As a reasoned and justified proposal, we assessed the increase in the additional amount of cash contribution allowed to the amount fixed by tax rules as the amount of cash payments. This amount is now EUR 420. We believe that the current limit of EUR 50 is extremely low, in particular in view of the total ban on donations by legal persons and the restrictions on donations by natural persons. We will support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Political Parties Act in the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! With the latest amendment to the Political Parties Act adopted last year, we have significantly improved the legislation on financing for political parties. On the basis of Greece's recommendations, we have introduced some important innovations in our legal order that will reduce the possibility of corruption in the financing of political parties in the future. One of the key novelties of this novel was the prohibition of obtaining contributions and donations from legal persons, independent entrepreneurs of individuals and individuals who carry out independent activities. This significantly reduces the possibility for economic operators to acquire significant transactions through public procurement, privatisation advantages and impact on appointment procedures. Another major novelty of the last novelty of the Political Parties Act is the strengthening of the powers and supervision of the Court of Auditors over the financial operations of political parties. The annual reports of each of the political parties shall not only be reviewed every four years but shall also be subject to a statutory audit by the Court of Auditors. It will also be possible to carry out the audit more frequently if it is suspected that there are irregularities in the annual reports of one of the political parties. More importantly, the annual reports of each political party will not only be reviewed every four years but also necessarily audited by the Court of Auditors. It will also be possible to carry out the audit more frequently if it is suspected that there are irregularities in the annual reports of any of the political parties. The third novelty is to ensure greater transparency of the financial operations of political parties. Cash contributions from natural persons may be paid to political parties up to a maximum of EUR 50, and this amount must be credited through the bank. For those natural persons whose contribution to the political party exceeds the average monthly gross salary, public information on donors should be published. Political parties need to make their annual reports publicly available on the websites of the APIS. Members of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, we supported these solutions in the latest amendment to the Political Parties Act. Solutions are an important step in the fight against increasing corruption. Sufficiently restrictive legislation, in particular its consistent implementation and sanctioning of offenders, will certainly limit the occurrence of corruption in our society. Of course, the consistent implementation of legislation depends to the greatest extent on the effectiveness of the supervisory authorities, namely the courts, inspections, the Ipes and the Court of Auditors. Christian Democrats see a major problem in the poor functioning of supervisors, and it is these authorities, with their passiveness and non-sanctioning of violators rather than even creating conditions for the growth of corruption. In the implementation of the amendment, there have been inconsistencies, inconsistencies and shortcomings that are being addressed by today's proposal for a new law. In New Slovenia, we are not inclined to make frequent changes to laws if there are no valid substantive reasons for this, as we have repeatedly stressed in our views. In a specific case, we believe that the amendment of the law is necessary, as the last amendment of the law has clearly been inconsistent with other applicable rules, notably the Law on Payment Services and Systems and also with certain regulations of the European Union relating to the implementation of payment traffic. The amendment of the Law on Political Parties is therefore necessary in order to bring the law into line with these regulations and for the reason that the amendments to the last amendment to the law can at all be implemented. Thus, today's law of discussion does not bring significant substantive innovations, but it is necessary to remedy inconsistencies and shortcomings, which should be taken into account in the legislative procedure by law-makers who should reconcile each proposal of the law inter-sectorally before reaching a decision in the National Assembly. Such a procedure would significantly reduce the number of amendments and supplementation of the law and would relieve not only the work of the National Assembly but also facilitate the work of law enforcement bodies. Members of the New Slovenia Group will today be given the opportunity to consider a proposal for amendments and to supplement the Political Parties Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Kavtičnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Vice President. Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues! The Political Parties Act was passed in 1994 and has been amended several times since then, last December. The law establishes an appropriate legal basis for the establishment, management and functioning of political parties and thus for the unhindered exercise of the rights to political integration. The most recent amendment to the Political Parties Act was adopted mainly due to the regulation of greater transparency in the financing of political parties and the provision of more effective control over compliance with the provisions of the law. In order to limit the financing of clients from resources prohibited by the law, a provision has been introduced in the law which provides for financing of parties through a contract with the National Assembly on the provision of services for which members of groups acquire budgetary resources for education, professional assistance, the organisation of sent offices, with the purpose of spending. The provision aimed at the independent, independent and professional functioning of an individual Member in its intervention is also the aim of the amendment that we are considering today. In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, by amending the Law on Political Parties in this way and at that time after a lengthy discussion and a thorough debate, we do not agree, as pre-election tasks are already under way and this amendment would change the rules during the game itself. Last but not least, we are reminded of this by the Legislative and Legal Service, as well as by the Government itself as a proponent. We do not support the amendment proposal in the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia because it is inappropriate to interfere with the funds allocated to the work of the individual Member and the members of the groups for the financing of political parties. We also base our position on the warnings of the Legislative and Court of Auditors, which require and expect the National Assembly to use funds for Members on purpose, i.e. for the education of Members, for administrative assistance and professional assistance in the work of sent groups and for the organisation of sent offices. Let me remind you, he's 27. 5. 2014 The Court of Auditors issued the Audit Report: The effectiveness of the regulation of the area of provision of professional assistance to Members. The Court of Auditors has assessed that, by implementing the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Political Parties Act, which entered into force in early 2014, allowing for a different way of spending funds for the professional assistance of Members, making them transparent, cost-effective, efficient and efficient in the use of these funds, and therefore this amendment will not increase. Thus, the Court of Auditors expects more control over the use of these funds. In the Group of the Positive Slovenia, we do not believe that this will really be achieved with the proposed amendment, as we are reminded by the Legislative and Legal Service in its opinion. We also do not support the amount of anonymous donations in the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. We also do not support the reduction of fines for violations of the law, even because we have accepted, without reservation, higher penalties for citizens and citizens, both in terms of road safety and in the pursuit of illicit cuts in Slovenian forests. Why would political parties be an exception to this? Let me conclude: we will not support the bill in the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List will be presented by mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. Oh, that's a good-bye again. Allow me to begin my position in an area in which politics and political parties still have a major impact. Oxygen for the economy – this is what is called the proposal for measures to increase competitiveness and economic growth presented to the Slovenian public in August of last year. The requirements of Slovenian craft and entrepreneurship 2014 were presented to the public in May of this year at the Forum of Crafts and Entrepreneurship. And indeed, the above materials were also presented to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and we also introduced Members and Members of Parliament. At that time, the Republic of Slovenia lost several other cities on the global competitiveness map. After an analysis of the World Economic Forum last year, we held an unenviable 56th place, and this year we slipped slightly and landed in 62nd place. Among the first five most problematic elements affecting the business environment is access to finance, followed by ineffective bureaucracy, rigidity of employment, tax rates and corruption. And corruption is everywhere, including within political parties. In particular, this is why, with the latest amendment to the Political Parties Act, which entered into force on 1 January this year, inter alia, in line with the recommendations of the Group of States against Corruption or the Greek Organisation, we increased the fines for infringements, limited the cash payments of natural persons to EUR 50 and prohibited the financing of parties by legal persons. We have increased our sentences in order to act as a deterrent against infringements, and we have limited the cash contributions of natural persons to EUR 50 because we are aware that cash payments are difficult to track, increase the possibility of money laundering and illegal political financing. So until yesterday, everything is fine and fine, until amendments have been adopted on the parental committee, giving us wind and oxygen, not to the economy that really needs it, but to corruption. The penalties for political parties will be reduced and will be lower than the fines at stake for legal persons. The level of cash contributions of natural persons will be increased from EUR 50 to EUR 420, which will reduce transparency in the financing of political parties. What is even more absurd is that we find a solution whereby political parties will be able to circumvent the obligation to dissipate illicit contributions for humanitarian purposes. In the Civil Gazette, we are always committed to transparency, we are also committed to systemic solutions based on professional level and we are against gardening. Unfortunately, we note that the supporters of the amendments have given oxygen not to the economy it needs, but to themselves, to their political parties. And that is also why we cannot support the novel in such a form. Today, the company of Integrity also sent an invitation to Members and Members to reject the proposed amendments to the Law on Political Parties, which they considered softening this law. This call will be followed by Members of Parliament and Members of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u115	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made within half an hour following the end of the first item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and supplements to the law on the protection of nature within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor here to the representative of the Government of Mags. Mr Andrej Jerina, State Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Nature Conservation Act, which you will deal with today and, I hope, with a large majority of support, is the first amendment to this system law governing nature conservation in Slovenia after the 2004 novel, which brought the Slovenian Law on Nature Protection into line with European Union law. The proposed novelty is part of a larger legislative package in the field of environmental protection, which seeks to remove administrative barriers and burdens and to increase the effectiveness of environmental protection measures, including the area of nature conservation. The proposed novelty preserves the achieved level of public interest in nature conservation. The proposed legal solutions were prepared taking into account the fact that Slovenia has maintained nature with a high degree of biodiversity and a large number of natural values. Thus, conservation of nature in Slovenia is also a very important part of the European and also of the world's natural heritage, as several natural sights are also recognized and protected on a global scale by international conventions. Conservation of nature in Slovenia is also a major development potential. The proposed legal solutions to remove administrative barriers and burdens, by simplifying some administrative procedures and deregulation and enhancing the effectiveness of nature protection measures, will, in our opinion, contribute to faster and better development in this area. The proposed deregulation solutions also include partial deregulation of land transport on a state-owned basis and the granting of the possibility to sell land in protected areas at natural values under legally defined conditions. The novelty will also create a smaller alignment with the European Union acquis where the Slovenian regime does not achieve the required compliance with European rules, namely the obligation to obtain a legal nature-protection agreement on the issue of a building permit, which is already regulated in the same way to obtain an environmental agreement. Since changes to the system rules in the area of offences and inspection and customs control have taken place since the implementation of the Nature Conservation Act in 1999, these provisions of the law are being amended accordingly. The area of driving in the natural environment falls within the area of nature conservation, which has been regulated since 1995 by a sub-legislative regulation issued under the Environmental Protection Act. Driving in the natural environment for recreational purposes is prohibited, and the area and infrastructure where such driving would take place are not regulated. The monitoring and sanctioning of infringements are also inadequate or not implemented and a change of law in this area has been necessary. The regulation of bicycles in the natural environment was included in the proposal for a law on the proposal of Members at the meeting of the home working body. The Ministry agreed with this proposal because it contains acceptable solutions for the Ministry's field of expertise, which are also in line with the proposed regime for driving in the natural environment with motor-powered vehicles. The proposed solutions in the Law on Nature Conservation will contribute to a better business environment and greater efficiency in nature conservation. With regard to the amendment tabled by the SDS Group on Article 161 of the Law on the draft law amending Article 161 and proposing a reduction of the criminal sanctions at risk, we believe that the proposed reduction is not appropriate because the conduct which is sanctioned in the article in the title is not so easy that criminal sanctions may still be reduced. On a proposal from the SDS Group at the meeting of the home working body, criminal sanctions have already been reduced. The proposed additional reduction would further devalue the conduct of sanctions and therefore the applicant considers that we cannot support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Jakob Presecnik, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u118	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Madam Secretary of State with co-workers! I'm sorry, but today's session is extremely fast, so I'm a little late, probably for a few seconds. The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment, as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Nature Conservation Act at its 39th meeting, on 4 June. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which made specific comments on certain provisions and was duly taken into account in the amendments of the SD Group of Members and adopted by the Committee. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the State Council. His representative pointed out in the debate that the proposed amendment was supported by the State Council and highlighted, inter alia, the issue of black landfills. According to the Environmental Protection Act, the landowner is responsible for waste on his land if the originator of illegally transported waste is not known. The State should therefore, in the opinion of the Council of State, strengthen preventive action by tighter supervision. The position of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia was presented by its Director and stressed that the Chamber supports the amendment of the law, while in the offices of the Chamber the most attention was given to regulating driving in the natural environment and the related issue of taking into account the interests of owners of agricultural and forestry land and respecting private property. Some operational issues will also need to be addressed when implementing the law in practice. For example, the novelty provides that parking in the natural environment is permitted if the landowner does not object. In this regard, the question arises as to how this will be implemented and whether the proposed solution means that landowners themselves will set traffic signs on the prohibition of parking. It is also indistinguishable whether, without the physical closure of forest roads, it will be possible to reduce driving in the natural environment. However, it is also unclear how the landowner will claim compensation for damage if it occurs or will have to carry out all necessary procedures on his own or if his right to recover damage could be exercised through some simpler procedures. In the discussion, the members of the Committee discussed in particular the content of Article 4 relating to the arrangements for driving vehicles on a motor and other own drive in the natural environment and the amendments tabled by the members of the New Slovenia and the Slovenian People's Party and the proposal for an amendment of the Committee to this Article. The Committee's attention was also focused on the proposed criminal provisions and amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 38, 39 and 40, which substantially reduce the penalties for offences committed. The problem is that such high penalties or criminal provisions are generally not implemented and thus do not contribute to the reduction of offences, which is, of course, the main purpose. The Committee has identified itself to all the amendments tabled and has also adopted them, but has not identified itself to three amendments since they have become irrelevant due to the amendments adopted by the Committee. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of the Committee's report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u120	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Good-bye to all of you again! In front of us, a second consideration of the proposed amendment to the Nature Conservation Act, which in public at the time when the novel was still in public debate, sparked violent reactions, notably by cyclists. However, as the draft amendment fully removes the provisions on cycling in nature, debates about bureaucratic nonsense and the burial of tourism have calmed down. Bike rides are therefore permitted by regulated routes and in areas defined as sports and recreational activities. Thus, the amendment removes administrative burdens and obstacles to nature conservation, but provides only for driving by motor vehicles in the natural environment. The proposal to amend the law also eliminates, inter alia, non-compliance with European rules. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposal of the law, since it is stricter to regulate driving in the natural environment by motor-powered vehicles. We have been alerting DeSUS to this problem for a long time, as it destroys nature and endangers animals and humans by driving headlessly in the natural environment. While driving motor vehicles in the Republic of Slovenia, the regulation has been regulated since 1995. Since then, the number of driving enthusiasts outside of arranged roads has increased considerably, and the current regime has proved to be inappropriate. However, the proposal does not limit driving for motor vehicles in the natural environment in the case of vehicles intended to carry out an economic activity or public service. Only recreational driving, which would be permitted by road and road, is regulated in the natural environment, and only in specific areas and events, which will obtain the necessary permits, through the adoption of the amendment proposal. Finally, let me reiterate that the proposal will receive the support of MEPs and Members of the Group. Just before today, the SDS has tabled an amendment to reduce the penalty, which we will not support. In the DeSUS Group, as always, we feel this time that those who do not break the law do not need to be punished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the position of the New Slovenia Group, which will be presented by Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u122	Dear Prime Minister, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, fellow Member and fellow Members! Christian Democrats support the comprehensive and environmentally compatible development of Slovenia, based on natural data. Environmental change must be addressed and people of Slovenia must be prepared for climate change. The current situation proves that quality of life has deteriorated in this regard. Neurons and traps destroy homes, crops and other goods. The changed weather conditions and the increased possibility of floods, storms, tides, acorns and reptiles should be taken into account. Successful adaptation will only be possible through efficient, fast and professionally justified procedures, which are also governed by the proposed amendment. Let me express my satisfaction at the quality and content debate on the committee responsible on some of the proposed solutions and amendments to New Slovenia. I hope that we have clearly and unequivocally established a ban on motor vehicles in the natural environment. Christian Democrats are counting on mutual trust and respect for all stakeholders in regulating this sensitive area. The same applies to the regulation of bicycles in the natural environment. For Christian Democrats property is an extremely important category. It is precisely for this reason that a number of energy will have to be invested to conclude appropriate agreements between cyclists or tourist cyclists in the natural environment on one side and between landowners or land managers and road operators on the other. We believe that an agreement can be reached in the interests of all parties, as cycling is also becoming increasingly popular in the context of the domestic tourist offer. We stress, however, that driving with the proper agreement with the owner or manager is allowed only on solid roads, not anywhere. In its programme, New Slovenia presented answers for the future, in addition to low taxes and the open economy, simple procedures. More specifically, the way to a more effective public administration is meant here. The number of processes and procedures must be deregulation, the degree of red tape should be reduced and the principle of a healthy farmer reintroduced. The proposed amendments and amendments to the law, according to the speakers, introduce solutions that will result in a multi-level review of the decision-making process. The introduction of the proposed solutions is intended to lead to a long-term simplification or reduction in the number of procedures, remove the administrative barriers identified in practice and ensure consistency with other system legislation and procedures, with the protection of nature being ensured in at least the same scope and quality. As these solutions follow the direction of our programme, Members of New Slovenia will also support the proposed amendments to the Nature Conservation Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u124	Dear Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! The Nature Conservation Act removes administrative barriers and enhances the effectiveness of nature conservation measures by simplifying procedures and deregulation and introduces other simplifications in nature conservation. The law also regulates a specific agreement on the implementation of measures to protect the natural values of national interest by local communities, simplifications in the area of custody contracts. The novelty also introduces deregulations and enhances the effectiveness of nature conservation measures by partially freeing national-owned land on natural values and allowing for the sale of land in protected areas and natural values under legally defined conditions. In Slovenia, driving in the natural environment has been regulated since 1995 by the Regulation banning driving in the natural environment. During the last decade, the number of lovers and various forms of sports and recreation with motor vehicles has increased significantly, which also allow driving outside the road. As a result, the number of out-of-roads in nature is steadily increasing, and therefore there is also a proportionate increase in the nature and environmental pressures and the unregulated recording of vehicles in the natural environment, which do not need to be registered because they are not intended to drive on the road. In the bill itself, the penalties were significantly too high, disproportionate and unreasonable in relation to other offences, including road transport. On the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group with the amendments proposed a substantial reduction of the penalty, and these amendments were also accepted. However, since we still believe that the penalties for minor offences are too high, with the additional amendment we are proposing a further reduction in this segment. Such an updated and amended Nature Conservation Act will also be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party in the Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia will be presented by Mr Jože Velikonja.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u126	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! When we talk about nature protection, we in Slovenia are often full of mouths about how to keep it as intact as possible and we need to protect it in general and everywhere. Unfortunately, practice is not always like that. The matter is often complicated when all existing legal provisions are to be taken into account in the planning of interventions into nature. It is true that many times in practice we are faced with the extensive standardisation of this area, but it is also true that without any precise determination of what is allowed and unlawful interference in nature, it is a matter of quickly getting out of control. In doing so, the main objective of standardisation must always be to ensure that nature protection is at the highest possible level in Slovenia, which still allows for sustainable development of the country. The proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Nature Conservation Act provides for this. It enhances the effectiveness of nature protection measures while removing administrative obstacles and burdens that reduce the number of procedures in the long term and simplify and deregulation. The proposed amendments and amendments to the law rationalise the improvement of efficiency in the field of nature conservation organisation, eliminate minor inconsistencies with European regulations, and regulate motor-powered vehicles in the natural environment more precisely. In the current regulation, driving was regulated only in the 18-year-old government regulation, which caused a lot of public dissatisfaction due to the general prohibition. The new law now satisfactorily regulates this area, although some questions remain open. The maximum burdens of the amendment relate to the area of the issue of nature-protection agreements, where agreement can be given on conditions that have not been possible so far. In addition, the obligation to obtain natural security consent will be reduced in cases where it has been artificially established that individual interventions into space cannot have negative consequences for the preservation of natural values or other valuable parts of nature. Up to 700 procedures are expected less per year. With regard to the proposal for a reduction of fines in the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, we have already discussed the Law on Forests and the Law on Wine as we have advocated that the amount of fines should be such that it has an appropriate disstimulating effect that will contribute to the achievement of the main objectives of the laws. For all of this, the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia will adopt a proposal for a new law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dr Ljubica Jelusič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u128	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Nice hello to you all! In the Group of Social Democrats, we support amendments and additions to the Nature Conservation Act as proposed by the Government and supplemented by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment at its 5th meeting. 6. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Our support stems from the conclusion that the proposal for amendments to the law removes certain administrative obstacles and burdens in nature conservation, in order to simplify the issue of nature-protection agreements, which we know have caused long-term licensing procedures for various infrastructure and other construction projects, as well as rationalisation in the area of the adoption of nature protection measures, is noticeable in these supplements. In particular, we would like to point out that part of the supplementary legislation, which relates to Article 28a to Article 28d of the Nature Conservation Act, relate to the regulation of motor vehicles or other own-engine vehicles in the natural environment, then to the authorisation of public motor-driving events in the natural environment, to the registration and marking of motor-powered vehicles which are not registered in accordance with the rules governing motor vehicles, and to the regulation of bicycles in the natural environment. Part of this problem has been regulated by a very old one, as we have already heard, by a government regulation. However, there have been a lot of conflicts in society between those who would like to conduct certain public events or carry out specific sports activities in the natural environment, and landowners or even hunting organisations, for example, we can read about today on one of Slovenia's electronic portals. Although the information on the portal is not confirmed – it is about setting nails for mountain bikers – but it certainly points to certain life-threatening conflicts. As mountain cyclists warn that hunters chase mountain cyclists and ride themselves in forests and meadows with ground vehicles, it is necessary to say that the law allows for a ride for the purposes of hunting and custodian service, namely the fifth paragraph of the new Article 28b in the Nature Conservation Act. The Committee on Agriculture had an open debate on the proposed criminal provisions. We already know this debate from other meetings of the National Assembly. This was supplemented by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group's 38th, 39th and 40th articles, which substantially reduce penalties for worse or easier offences. In fact, we have reduced or halved the penalties envisaged by the Government on the Committee. The majority of the members of the Committee considered that the penalties were so high that, in practice, they did not, at least in some cases, even say so, and we also supported the reduction of the penalty. However, we have now received an additional proposal from the SDS Group, as presented by our colleague mag. The gendarmerie, which amends Article 40 of the Law, where easier offences are dealt with. The SDS proposes a further reduction, i.e. an additional halvation of the penalty, to the already severely reduced penalties on the Agriculture Committee. Our view is that when writing proposals, political parties should, however, maintain a certain measure of common sense or political hygiene. If the Government and the majority of the Committee on Agriculture have agreed to a substantial reduction in penalties for all types of offences, then it would be good to maintain some, in our opinion, a minimum level of good taste in the requirements for further reduction of penalties. Let me say that the Social Democrats will not agree to such a supplement, because the newly threatened sanctions would not deter potential offenders from acts that are not so easy at all. Let me warn you that farmers have much damage and also a lot of ill will due to vehicles, such as those parked in their parcels during the harvesting season of various forest fruits, either asparagus in Kras or mushrooms all over Slovenia, and that the low-risk penalties combined with a small number of inspectors would lead to even worse looting of natural resources and wealth. Those who live in Primorska are so aware of this problem because we know how strict sanctions are for such acts in neighbouring Italy. As we say, we agree with the Supplement to the Nature Conservation Act, but we are against the addition of the SDS to the additional reduction of sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Alenka Pavlič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u130	Thank you very much. The bill enhances the effectiveness of nature protection measures while eliminating administrative obstacles and burdens that reduce the number of procedures in the long term and simplify and deregulation. The proposed amendments and amendments to the law rationalise the improvement of efficiency in the field of nature conservation organisation, eliminate non-compliance with European regulations and regulate the use of vehicles in the natural environment. In this regard, we would like to point out in the Group of Non-Aligned Members that the number of lovers and various forms of sports and recreation with motor vehicles has increased significantly over the past decade, which also allow for out-of-road driving. According to the Slovenian Tourism Organization, half the mountain bikers are among us, so mountain cycling is one of the key tourist products in the development and promotion of active holidays. They are very well aware of this in some other European countries, which recognise mountain biking as a potential for the development of tourist destinations. Mountain bikers in Slovenia note that legislation and organisational and financial inputs to the regulation of mountain cycling in Slovenia do not follow the growth of the popularity of this sport and trends in cycling abroad. Spirit also expects that legislation will allow the development of mountain biking, be friendly to mountain bikers and other users of the space, and that the legislator will enable it to develop cycling infrastructure, such as specialised mountain biking routes. Legislation should, according to them, also be the basis for legalisation and regulation of the supply of roads and roads outside the classified road infrastructure. The current Regulation banning driving in the natural environment of 1995 provides that "in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, it is prohibited to drive, stop, park or organise motor vehicles, bicycles with auxiliary engines and other means of transport allowing movement faster than walking on foot, with the power of its own engine and not intended solely for driving by road and by bicycle". Although mountain bikers insist that cycling in the natural environment cannot be thrown into the same basket with the buzzing of quadricycles, motocross engines or motor sleds, the 19-year-old regulation is still in force. The Regulation also further prohibits the organisation of mountain bike sports events, which is detrimental to the development of the entire sports sector and also constitutes an unnecessary loss of income from tourism activities. Therefore, in the Group of Non-Aligned Members of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek, we insisted that before the end of the term of office of this National Assembly a new Law on Nature Conservation be adopted. Taking into account the professional recommendations and views of the interested professional and other public, cycling associations, associations and individuals, landowners, farmers, their associations, mountaineers, hunters, fishermen, campers, naturalists, tourist associations and other stakeholders, we, in the Alliance of Alenka Bratusek, together with unrelated MEP Dragan Bosic, have created an acceptable social compromise for the regulation of cycling in the natural environment. Thus, on our joint proposal, the Committee has adopted a solution allowing bicycle riding on solid roads, if not opposed by owners or operators of these routes. Bike rides in the natural environment are also allowed in the context of a public event on the basis of a permit for a public event. It is allowed outside the natural environment, including areas which are defined by spatial acts as areas for sport and recreation and which are also intended for cycling. This allows for the establishment of cycling parks and other areas intended for cycling in sports and recreation areas. Areas for sport and recreation are designated by municipalities with their spatial acts. They are intended for different types of activities, but can also be used exclusively for bicycle rides. Since special laws govern cycling by mountain routes and in the forest area, the provisions of the title article shall not apply to these two cases and a special arrangement shall be in force for these areas. The old regulation or general ban on bicycles in the natural environment will therefore be lifted after 19 years. The Law on Nature Conservation will, however, determine where bicycle riding is permitted in the natural environment by means of the amendments adopted. Moreover, with regard to the amendment tabled by the SDS Group on Article 161 of the draft law, article 40, I would like to inform you that we oppose this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List will be presented by mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u132	Hello again! At the meeting of the Committee, a proposal was made to withdraw the point of consideration of the amendments and the addition of the Nature Conservation Act. We are pleased and pleased in the Civil Gazette that this withdrawal has not been voted on, because we believe that the nature of the issues must not depend on what period of the mandate we are in, and that the area of nature conservation is that area where we also have to step together and obtain as much consensus as possible. We welcome the novel in the National Gazette, for the first time because it removes administrative obstacles and unnecessary burdens, not at the expense of preserving nature. We also support it because it simplifies procedures and deregulation. The speakers in front of me have highlighted quite a few areas of change. This would limit itself to only four very simple and practical, such as the area of pre-emptive rights for the country. The period from now 60 days is reduced to 30 days. Regulation of the possibility of one public institution being able to manage several protected areas, which will also contribute to the necessary administrative burdens. With a novelty, for example, we end the validation of the work programmes and annual reports of public institutions in the government. The latter did not have any added value. The separation of managerial and professional functions in the management of the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Nature Protection is abolished, which has unfortunately not proved to be an effective approach, and we are correcting this. The obligation to obtain natural security consent will be reduced in the event that it has been artificially established that individual interventions to the premises cannot have negative consequences for the preservation of natural values or other valuable parts of nature. These procedures are expected to be less than 700 per year. Part of the novelty, which raised the most dust in the public, is the regulation of motor vehicles. So far, this has been regulated by a government regulation. By introducing the possibility of organising public events and identifying specific areas for sport and recreation where driving under special conditions can be carried out, we hope that the subject of a sufficiently high consensus of all stakeholders will be resolved. For all the reasons listed in the National Gazette, we support this novel and it will receive our votes. With regard to the amendment tabled under Article 40, I must first say that it seems right for me to have reduced or corrected these fines on the home working body. However, we fear that further reductions would undermine the internal relationship between the different rates of individual groups of offences. Here we somehow point out that we do not want to cooperate to be part of that part of this Parliament, which will establish a system for over-valued fines. We must not afford this in such an important area as nature conservation, and therefore we are skeptical and reserved to the amendment tabled by our colleagues from the SDS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, which will be presented by Mr Jakob Presečnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u134	Thank you again very much for your word. Good-bye to all of you! I will be brief because it has been explained in substance many times in today's session, but the amendments to this law, which is important to all of us, for our nature, people and for all that is happening in our territory, remove various administrative obstacles and burdens with the aim of achieving an equal effect in nature conservation, increase the effectiveness of nature conservation measures by simplifying procedures and deregulation, introduce simplifications in the adoption of acts establishing a protected area and in the implementation of the public nature conservation service. The novel shall simplify and deregulation in the field of protection of the movable natural heritage. Furthermore, deregulation and increased effectiveness of nature conservation measures are carried out by partially freeing national-owned land on natural values and allowing for the sale of land in protected areas. The novel also makes a smaller alignment with European Union law. What I want to stress, and this has also been the most on the Committee's agenda, as well as in today's presentation of the parliamentary groups, is driving with vehicles in the natural environment. Here, I believe, despite the fact that we have adopted some amendments and some solutions on the committee, much remains unresolved. It is about cohesiveness, or better said first, a conflict of different interests, which must, of course, be regulated according to the desire to coexist both owners, mountaineers in this mountain world, cyclists, motor-powered vehicle owners, organizers of various events and so on. The fact is, with technological progress and the accessibility of these motor vehicles, these vehicles are accessible to a wider range of people and, of course, the number of these vehicles has increased, and also the number of critical events in nature is increasing in this way, given that the infrastructure for such driving is not regulated. As a result, environmental disturbances and pressures are constantly increasing. As far as criminal provisions are concerned. This cane has two ends; in particular, these penalties must be proportionate to the infringements and must also prevent the desire for violations. And what has been said especially in some areas where foreigners are joyfully exploiting our unpunished policy toward all those who have a corrupting effect on nature by their presence and by the presence of their motor vehicles, so that these penalties must be such as to discourage all of us from doing so. If the penalties are too high, there is no punishment, if they are too low, but nothing depends, and then, of course, the circle is concluded. So I think that there will have to be some effort in the future to reduce these environmental impacts with motor vehicles and with all the activities carried out in the environment and that there will be no conflict in the environment, but co-existence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u135	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I would like to inform you, however, that you have received an amendment to the amendment to the amended Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Nature Conservation Act. [[ZON-C]] , second reading, EPA 1883-VI for the National Assembly, paragraph 40. This amendment replaces the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party of 10 June. We are therefore moving on to the debate on this amendment to Article 40. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. I see a desire for a debate, so I'll open up an opportunity to apply. I request an application for a hearing on Article 40. We have two panellists registered as the first Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u136	Your Honor! Let me explain this amendment to Article 40 proposed by our Group of Members. Our amendments have been tabled on the Home Committee on Agriculture and the Environment to reduce penalties for worse offences. In fact, these proposals have been supported and are therefore more operational because where penalties are too high, penalties are not enforced and this is not an applicable law, which would also be enforced, applied or given its effects. Our proposal to Article 40 also lowers the ceiling on these penalties by reducing the number of offences here, and these penalties are lower. If you just say, say, a comparison. For example, if a person drives, stops or parks a vehicle in a natural environment and that a single entrepreneur can be punished with a thousand euros or a person with 400 euros – this punishment seems quite high to me. Or, for example, if a vehicle is used that is not entered in the record and is not marked, the penalty may also be a maximum of EUR 1,000 for a single entrepreneur or EUR 400 for each individual. Also higher penalties for legal persons where the maximum penalty may be EUR 2 000. I myself believe that if the penalties are reasonable, these penalties are imposed or implemented and the law itself is operational in practice. However, if these penalties are too high for relatively small offences, then the law is not operational in practice. So our proposal is that the upper limit of these penalties should be reduced by half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Dragan Bosic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. I will not support this amendment. The cause is very simple; that is, all activities directed against nature are undervalued. I hope we got along just fine. We wouldn't be able to talk here about some proportionality, I don't know what, but this is about some kind of bartering in terms of some values in nature. It is said that all that is directed against biodiversity is an irreversible matter which does not have market value, nature itself does not have market value. On the committee itself, I could not vote on the proposal at the time for a reduction because I do not have this right, but I have it here, and I will not support this amendment. However, there is still a risk of the full adoption of the Zone in this amendment, and I would therefore like to propose the withdrawal of this amendment. There's one more thing I'd like to mention. It's not a general debate, but it was a talk about regulating driving in the natural environment. One fact; a few days ago, Slovenian mountain bikers Tanja Žakelj and Blaža Klemenčič stood on stage at the European Championship. Jacquelova won, Klemenčičeva was second, and I can't imagine, let's say, how these two feel about greeting contestants and how they answer questions about where they train, where the tracks are suitable for driving and so on. I therefore welcome the adoption of the amendment to point 4 which was adopted by the Committee at that time, as previously said by colleague Alenka Pavlič. However, in the perspective, it might be possible to think once again when it comes to solving environmental problems or problems of nature, to think a little in this direction that nature actually grants what it belongs to, the status of a living being, and thus all the penalties or measures that are then envisaged, as only in one case in the world. Maybe we can be different, maybe we can do better. Once again, the punishment that is determined by value, for example, by organisms in nature, is never too high. However, I agree that, if it is difficult to define, it is possible to raise better in this sense that such damage caused by nature would not occur. Because logic is extremely simple; that is, if we come from the paradigm that has been told here many times – whoever destroys, who pollutes, to pay for it – then clearly with elementary logic, we come to the one who has the money and can afford it. With this we do not protect anything, says just make some apartheid for those who can and those who can't. That is why I will not support this amendment, and the law, as it currently stands, will be a good solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Would you like to discuss it with someone else? It's still a wish. I'll open the door for a debate if anyone else can. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Mirko Brulc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u140	Thank you so much for saying that. You know, when we talk about punishments, then we're always on two sides. One is those who want to be liked, and the other is those who want to be repulsive, disciplined and as normal as possible. Look, there's a whole other area, traffic accidents, as many as there are, and paramedics can't get to the scene of an accident on the highway, because people are driving down the runway and so on. And if I say now that it is imperative to withdraw the driver's license, someone will say that these penalties are too severe. But if I'm out there on the road, lying there waiting for help, then this punishment wouldn't be too much. You know, we have to allow a lot of things to happen in nature, but all in accordance with the rules. No one's forcing anyone to disobey these rules. Whoever's making me park on one of those lawns, where the farmer's chopping the grass, and I'm taking a nice walk or whatever. Nobody's making me do this. Therefore, I think that these penalties, which have been reduced by an amendment to the Committee, are appropriate to be dissuasive. If I have to pay a thousand euros, then I'll think about it if I'm doing stupid things on some vegetables or riding a motorcycle. I live in the countryside in Goriška, I tell you, with motorcycles, cross-engines over vineyards, over fertile fields and so on – more than mud, it is beautiful and more damage is done with it. But our problem is that there will be no inspectors to prosecute this and not end up cashing it. I will not support this amendment, but I very much agree with the rest of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to discuss it? And the government's representative? You can, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u142	Once again, I would like to stress in particular that with regard to the proposed amendment by the SDS Group to the 40th Article of the proposed Act, which proposes an additional reduction – we have already reduced the Committee by five times, to facilitate violations – we consider that such a further reduction is unacceptable. Indeed, nature is one that must be respected, and as has been said many times today, there is no obligation anywhere to actually violate these provisions, which are legal. And if we are talking only about lighter offenses, these are those where there is no irreparable damage – the irreparable damage is the one that we have identified under more severe misdemeanors, with which the natural balance changes crucially. Finally, it is necessary to know that man is also an integral part of this natural balance, and that the unforeseeable effects that occur in the ecosystem can also have very negative effects on humans, human beings and their ability to act and function. However, in the case of minor offences for which a reduction of sanctions is envisaged, I may mention only two of those which are classified as minor offences, unless the Ministry is informed of the intended immigration of plants or animals of alien species, or if plants or animals of alien species are introduced which are prohibited. You know what our problems are and what we are already dealing with, not only in the environment, but also in the field of health, because of alien plant species, from allergies to damage caused in the natural environment. This may seem to be a small matter, but the consequences in the natural balance and economic consequences may be very significant. Therefore, the additional reduction of the fines proposed by the proposer, once again, does not support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss it? Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u144	Your Honor! I'd say there can be more views of these punishments, with multiple angles. I myself believe that in this 161st article, where the 18 types of offences listed are listed, these violations vary according to weight, given the burden of the natural environment. I agree that the range of penalties is also greater because of this. On the other hand, let us look at what is actually being done in practice. We have a lot of theories, predictions and so on, but I'd like to ask how many maximum penalties have been imposed. I don't think she was any girl. I highly doubt that she was any of them. However, I believe that in all of these types, certain penalties are so severe that this punishment may be too low. Therefore, I would say that there can be quite a few views here, given the gravity of this offence which is here, I can say that there is a considerable and extensive list of types of these offences. The proposal for this amendment is to advocate that the criminal system is also implemented in practice, but not that we have a rather high penalty, but that in practice these penalties are practically not imposed. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Branko Kurnjek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u146	Thank you for your word. Mr Žnidar has just said that the highest penalties recorded in the range are not defined. Therefore, it is important to note that at least those of the lowest nature who are dissuasive are tall enough to truly reach their goal. At a meeting of the committee, where we supported SDS amendments on the reduction of fines in the National Gazette, I said that we should still think about serious offences – because you know what article 14 of the current law says. A more serious offense is, say, the extinction of a plant or an animal species or, say, the deterioration of habitats to the point that their species is at risk. In fact, we have also drastically reduced our fines. Thus, when lowering the fines, we need to be careful that we are not just doing some balancing work here. As my colleague Katarina said before, we will not support this amendment in the Civil Gazette. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Is there any other desire to discuss it? I see you don't. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the time frame of the meeting in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 1st item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. POINT OF THE DAY, THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL FOR THE AVENTIC EXAMPLE OF THE FIFTH PARAGRAPH 206. Member of the Code on Mortgage and Disability Insurance. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. To further explain the proposal for the adoption of an authentic explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Dejan Levanič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u148	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! The Pension and Disability Insurance Act, i.e. STIZ-2, as a system law for this area of insurance also governs the area of occupational insurance. The fundamental right guaranteed by this professional insurance is essentially the right to a professional pension. Insurers who, prior to the exercise of their right to a professional pension, fulfil the conditions for obtaining an old, early, widowed or invalid pension, ZPIZ-2 allows the raising of funds in a single amount or the free transfer of such funds to voluntary supplementary insurance, where they also obtain the right to an additional pension. The result of this one-off payment of the funds raised is that the insurer cannot exercise the right to a professional pension. If we're going more specifically, why did we actually get to the bottom of the authentic explanation? An important and numerical category of insurers are also insured persons who are involved in professional insurance on the basis of the provisions of the Service Act in the Slovenian Army and carry out military service in the Slovenian Army or are professional soldiers. For these two categories of insurers, PPIZ-2 provided in Article 206, paragraph 5, for a specific arrangement concerning the possibility of a one-off payment of assets before retirement in the compulsory insurance system. In fact, in accordance with Article 206, paragraph 5, of the ZPIZ-2, an insured person who has served for at least 10 years in the Slovenian Army and does not intend to apply a professional pension shall be entitled to be required to be paid in a single amount in an account in accordance with the compulsory supplementary pension. The same right shall be exercised by an insured person, who is essentially a professional soldier and who is terminated by a contract of defence employment under the Defence Act because of the age limitation of military service, and in this case the insured person is not entitled to other professional insurance rights. In our view, an authentic interpretation is necessary in order to prevent the misinterpretation of Article 206, paragraph 5, of the ZPIZ-2, which would be contrary to the purpose of professional insurance, due in particular to the possible vague, ambiguous recording of this standard. The purpose of professional insurance is to provide some social security when these persons are no longer working and, of course, because of the consequences of such early increases in occupational insurance funds. In addition, there is a general regime for the single raising of funds, allowing such an increase only upon retirement in compulsory insurance. Some have interpreted this provision in such a way that these funds can be raised despite the fact that the insured has not ceased the working relationship with the Ministry of Defence and have already initiated certain judicial proceedings to that end, and we also need to explain precisely what this provision entails. In view of this misunderstanding, we propose the following text of the authentic interpretation, which must be understood by the insurance undertakings who have served for at least 10 years in the Slovenian Army and do not intend to exercise the right to a professional pension, as well as by professional soldiers who have been terminated by a defence contract under the law due to the age limit on the conduct of military service, to be entitled to request that the funds they hold in their account be paid in a single amount only after the termination of the employment contract with the Ministry of Defence. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities asks you to support an authentic explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u150	Madam Vice-President, colleagues from the Ministry, fellow Member and fellow Members, welcome once again! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, as a working mother, has considered the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 206 of the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, submitted by the Government to the Assembly. Representatives of the Government participated with the State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, the representative of the Slovenian Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, the representative of the State Council and representatives of military unions. The Committee received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons and the comments of the Union of Soldiers of Slovenia. In its written opinion, the legislative and legal service which examined the proposal in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legal and technical aspects, stated that the proposal formally had all the elements to be contained under the second paragraph of Article 149 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In their view, there is no need for an authentic explanation, nor can the reasons cited by the applicant justify its adoption. On the question of admissibility of the content of the authentic interpretation, however, they note that the proposed authentic interpretation does not extend or alter the meaning of the standard and is therefore admissible. In its opinion, the Commission of the Council of State for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons supported the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation and the text of an authentic interpretation. The Commission considers that an authentic interpretation in the present situation is the only viable and pragmatic solution. In an additional explanation for the proposal for an authentic interpretation, the representative of the Government stressed the key purpose of the authentic interpretation. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented the opinion in more detail where she stressed, inter alia, that two questions were raised, first of all, in view of the purpose and legal effects of the authentic interpretation, on the need to adopt an authentic interpretation and, secondly, on the admissibility of the adoption of the presented authentic interpretation in relation to the proposed content. In the event that a decision is made that an authentic interpretation is necessary, the terminology of the proposed authentic interpretation text is also proposed by the wording of the provision under consideration or by the provisions of the law governing public servants. The Committee was also informed of the comments of the Union of Soldiers of Slovenia presented at the meeting of the Committee by their representative, who opposed the authentic interpretation. In a short discussion, the representative of the proposer briefly presented the purpose of the standard once again and stressed that Article 206 also follows the will of the social partners. She was added to the Ministry of Defence's proposal. As a result of the effects of early increases in insurance assets, this is the loss of all other occupational insurance rights, the general regime for the single raising of funds which allows such an increase only upon retirement in compulsory insurance has also been established. Following the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee agreed that the authentic interpretation of Article 206, paragraph 5, of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act should be adopted. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 150 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee adopted its amendment proposed to the National Assembly for adoption. Since the Committee had already carried out its substantive discussion on the text of the proposal for an authentic interpretation in the course of its discussion on the above-mentioned proposal for a decision, it immediately proceeded to vote on the following proposal for a decision: the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a proposal for an authentic interpretation of Article 206 of the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance and a proposal for an authentic interpretation together with the proposed amendment of the Committee. The Committee adopted that decision by six votes to one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Iva Dimic will be the first to present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u152	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The applicant for the adoption of an authentic interpretation states that an important and numerical category of insured persons involved in professional insurance are persons who, on the basis of the provisions of the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, perform military service in the Slovenian Army or are professional soldiers. It further states that, under certain conditions, PPIZ-2 provided for specific arrangements for the possibility of payment of funds before retirement in the compulsory insurance scheme for these two categories of insurance undertakings. According to the applicant, this provision of PIZ-2 is unclear and ambiguous and therefore it must be prevented from being misinterpreted, which would be contrary to the purpose of professional insurance, i.e. by providing social security during the period when the insured are no longer active, and consequently by preventing the loss of other professional insurance rights resulting from the early recovery of these assets. Christian Democrats do not agree with the Ministry's position that the provision is unclear and point out the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which states that the applicant states in his explanation that an authentic interpretation is necessary in order to prevent a misinterpretation of the provision under consideration, which would be contrary to the purpose of professional insurance, but does not state the reasons why the implementation of this provision would be difficult in practice or that its implementation would lead to conflicting interpretations and interpretations. The Legislative and Legal Service considers that, in a particular case, the eligibility of the use of the Institute of Authentic Interpretation is controversial. As the reasons for the adoption of the authentic interpretation are egregious, the assessment of its necessity and admissibility is also made difficult in the view of the Legislative and Legal Service. Members of New Slovenia do not believe that an authentic explanation is necessary in this case, so we will vote against the government proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u153	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the position will be presented by mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u154	Thank you very much. According to the Legislative and Legal Service, the authentic interpretation of the law adopted by the National Assembly is necessary when a certain standard in the law is unclear. However, it follows from the opinion of the Government that this standard of Article 206, paragraph 5, is clear. What do they say? "From the provisions of Article 206, paragraph 5, the regime constitutes an exception and must be interpreted restrictively. Such an explanation shall be justified, in particular, by the purpose of professional insurance, which is that persons performing work that is no longer possible after a certain age and persons performing heavy and health-related work are allowed early retirement." Finally, the language interpretation of this paragraph, which states that the work has been done, does not give rise to work, which means that it is more than clear that it is for the people to whom the labour relationship has ceased and that they have obtained this right only by doing so. In doing so, I would like to point out that we are very eager to find ourselves in this House, and the Government is very keen to resort to some pre-normation and extreme confusion of the Slovenian legal order. Five times we want to write the same thing, in five different ways that it will hold it, even though one way is enough. And now we have a legal norm, which also the Legal and Legislative Service believes does not require further clarification or an authentic explanation, so that it is clear. However, it is obvious that there has been some compromise between the Ministry and trade unions in the Slovenian Army, but that another additional text is needed. They probably want to calm one another or the other. Of course, we have a relative problem with this way of working, so in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group we are reserved for an authentic explanation that wants to explain something, which is very clearly written. And there's something that bothers me about this professional insurance. Professional insurance is intended to ensure that a person obtains the right to a professional pension before obtaining the right to an old-age pension, because if he performs health-related work or works that are no longer available after a certain age, he is, of course, insured for this purpose and then receives this occupational pension before starting to receive an old-age pension. However, there is no way that a professional pension is intended to meet the conditions for a retirement pension first and then to receive a one-time payment of the old pension. And that's paid by the employer, read the state in this case. Dear representatives of the Ministry, we committed ourselves to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance of the ZPIZ-2 and in the pension reform, this was an obligation for employers to overwind the criteria and criteria and, consequently, the jobs for which they are even involved in occupational insurance. We probably also have a case in the Slovenian Army where professional insurance involves those who have no connection with some operational, health-related business and are still privileged in some other professions in the private sector. Technological progress has gone forward and many no longer carry out the health of the harmful work performed after the job classification 10 years ago. This would significantly reduce the cost to the employer, and not least, it would save some savings on the state budget so that certain public servants who are insured today would not be insured professionally. No, you've been breaking for a year instead. In fact, on 30 June last year, a half-year deadline for the Government to draw up a regulation on criteria and criteria for the establishment of jobs for which it is compulsory to include professional insurance has expired. This should be done in cooperation and in dialogue with the social partners. I asked the government twice what he was doing in this area. The government replied to me that there are tough negotiations with the social partners and, of course, nothing actually happened here for a year or so – I don't know what happened, but a regulation that should be up to 30. 6 last year adopted, not yet, jobs are not, of course, and this occupational insurance still remains a problem, although we should probably solve it. Your Honor! I propose that, instead of such authentic explanations, we make an effort to have a new list of jobs for which professional insurance is to be paid, reflecting the current situation in technology, so that the actual employers or that the State will pay professional insurance for those who are actually in need of health-related harmful works working in jobs that are no longer available after a certain age. I certainly agree that these are operatives, such as soldiers, policemen and many others, but I have reservations that in such jobs there are also those sitting in offices and, of course, far from doing any work that would justify and justify professional insurance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The following is the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. Mrs. Alenka Bikar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u156	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues, ministerial team, welcome again! The Government has tabled in the parliamentary procedure a proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 206, paragraph 5, of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which is not often the case. This is about an interpretation of an article that has a backlash effect in the form of an authentic explanation. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the adoption of an authentic interpretation would not be necessary, but the proposed content of the authentic interpretation is admissible, since it does not extend or alter the meaning of the norm. As further explained to us, an authentic explanation is necessary because of a more understandable norm in order to prevent a vague and ambiguous record from misinterpreting the fifth paragraph of that Article of the Retirement and Disability Insurance Act. The fifth paragraph of Article 206 is to be understood in such a way that insured persons who have served for at least 10 years in the Slovenian Army and who do not intend to exercise the right to a professional pension and professional soldiers who have been terminated by a defence employment contract under the law for the purpose of the age limit on the performance of military service are entitled to be required to be paid in a single amount by the funds they hold in their account only after the termination of the employment contract with the Ministry of Defence. This understanding would, for example, prevent any misinterpretation which could be contrary to the provision of social security during the period when those persons would no longer be employed, which is undoubtedly the purpose of professional insurance. In addition, this interpretation also avoids the consequences that such a one-off increase in insurance assets may have. In order to close the provision, it should be concluded that, for insurers, a single payment of funds is possible only after the termination of the contract of employment with the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, since in this case it is an exception which should be interpreted restrictively. Therefore, in the Parliamentary Group, Positive Slovenia will support the decision of the competent working body to adopt the Proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 5(6) of the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance and a proposal for a text of an authentic interpretation together with the proposed amendment of the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u157	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, the position will be presented by Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u158	Thank you very much. PPIZ-2 entered into force on 1 January 2014 and as a system law for pension and disability insurance also governs the area of compulsory supplementary pension insurance, which includes compulsory inclusion in occupational insurance and the rights and obligations of insurance in the case of age and death determined on the basis of payments in this form of insurance. Occupational insurance shall include insured persons performing particularly heavy and health-related work and insured persons performing works which, after a certain age, are no longer able to perform successfully. The fundamental right guaranteed by professional insurance is the right to a professional pension. Insurers who, prior to the exercise of the right to a professional pension, fulfil the conditions for obtaining the right to an old age, early, widowed, invalid pension, and ZPIZ-2, enable the raising of funds in a single amount or the free transfer of such funds to voluntary supplementary insurance where they acquire the right to an additional pension. The result of the single payment of the funds raised is that the insurer cannot exercise the right to a professional pension. An important and numerical category of insurers are insured persons who are involved in professional insurance on the basis of the provisions of the Service Act in the Slovenian Army and carry out military service in the Slovenian Army or are professional soldiers. For these two categories of insurers, PPIZ-2 provided in Article 206, paragraph 5, for a specific arrangement concerning the possibility of a one-off payment of assets before retirement in the compulsory insurance system. According to the Ministry, the authentic interpretation is necessary in order to avoid a misinterpretation of Article 206, paragraph 5, of the ZPIZ-2, which would be contrary to the purpose of professional insurance, which is to ensure social security during the period when these persons will no longer be employed. The early rise in insurance means the loss of all other professional insurance rights. As a result of the purpose of professional insurance, it is therefore necessary to establish a single raising scheme allowing such an increase only upon retirement to compulsory insurance. With a view to preventing misinterpretation and a double recording of Article 206, paragraph 5, of the ZPIZ-2, it is therefore necessary to write down a standard which unequivocally provides that, for insurers under this provision, a single payment of funds is possible only after the termination of the contract of employment with the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia. In the SD Group, we will support the authentic interpretation and the proposed amendment because we believe that it is necessary to avoid misinterpretation and irregularities in the implementation of the legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u159	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, Mr Aljoša Jerič will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u160	Thank you for your word. Say good-bye again! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, for adoption by the National Assembly, proposed an authentic interpretation of Article 206, paragraph 5, of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. This Article lays down and must also be understood that insured persons who have served for at least 10 years in the Slovenian Army and who do not intend to exercise the right to a professional pension and professional soldiers who are entitled to a contract of defence under the law for the purpose of restricting the performance of the military service, are entitled to be required to be paid in a single amount only after the termination of the contract of employment with the Ministry of Defence. Such interpretation of the article of the law avoids any misinterpretation that would not be in line with the purpose of professional insurance or social security during a period when individuals are no longer employed and because of the consequences of such an early increase in insurance funds, that is to say, the loss of all other professional insurance rights. As a result of the purpose of professional insurance, a general regime for the single raising of funds is also established, allowing such an increase only upon retirement in compulsory insurance. Therefore, the proposal for an authentic interpretation of the article makes sense as it leads to the possibility for insurers to make one-off payments only after the termination of the employment contract with the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, since in this case it is an exception which should be interpreted restrictively. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek, we will decide by the competent working body to adopt the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 206 of the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance and a proposal for a text of an authentic interpretation together with the proposed amendment of the Committee, supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Kurnjek will present his position on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u162	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, Mr Director, Members and Members of Parliament! The National Assembly adopted the Pension and Disability Insurance Act 4. 12. 2012, and it has already entered into force 1. 1. 2013 However, the application of the law in practice has led to situations where the provision of Article 206, paragraph 5, was interpreted differently than the legislator’s intention. Therefore, the applicant submitted a proposal for acceptance of an authentic interpretation in order to avoid a misinterpretation of Article 206, paragraph 5. In the opinion of the applicant, this provision should be understood in such a way as to ensure that insured persons who have served for at least 10 years in the Slovenian Army and who do not intend to exercise the right to a professional pension and professional soldiers who cancel the defence employment contract under the law for the purpose of restricting the service of the military, are entitled to be required to be paid in a single amount only after the termination of the employment contract with the Ministry of Defence. This interpretation also follows the will of the social partners, which was demonstrated at the time of the adoption of the pension reform. The aim of the legislator, which was also agreed with the social partners, was to allow a single amount of funds to be raised only if the contract of employment is terminated by an individual and left in some way without adequate social security. In view of the purpose and legal effects of the authentic interpretation, two questions are raised: firstly, the need to adopt an authentic interpretation, and secondly, the question of the admissibility of the adoption of an authentic interpretation in relation to the proposed content. It follows from the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service that an authentic interpretation is not necessary, that the proposed text fulfils all the formal conditions and that the eligibility criteria are also met as the proposed authentic interpretation does not extend or alter the meaning of the standard and is therefore admissible. We will therefore vote in the Parliamentary Group on the adoption of the proposal for an authentic interpretation of the fifth paragraph of Article 206 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u163	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u164	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. All together a nice greeting, especially to the representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs! In the DeSUS Group, we will support the decision of the parent working body proposing to the National Assembly to adopt a proposal for an authentic interpretation of the text of Article 206, paragraph 5, of the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, together with the amendment proposal, as set out in the decision. In spite of the fact that the legal services of the National Assembly have found that an authentic interpretation is not necessary in this case, since the provision of the Article is sufficiently clear, it is good that the legislator, with a more precise interpretation of the standard adopted by the pension reform, removes the concerns of the trade union and the insurers, and also prevents any proceedings before the courts concerning the exercise of the right to a single payment of professional insurance funds. Members and Members of the DeSUS Group agree that the text of the proposed authentic interpretation of the pension law is appropriate and correct. The appropriateness and correctness of the interpretation are based both on the established methods of interpretation and on the very purpose of the legal provision which the legislator had in mind when formulating the standard. In addition, the proposed interpretation is confirmed by the fact that the text of this article, so to speak, was created in cooperation with the social partners, in this case also specifically with representatives of the Slovenian Army Military Union. In the DeSUS Group, too, we consider that the logical interpretation of Article 206, paragraph 5, is such that one of the conditions for the exercise of the right to a single payment of accrued pension funds is, of course, to terminate the contract of employment at the Ministry of Defence. The single payment is intended to help overcome the loss of a job, either because of the age limit or because of other cases of termination of a contract. As we say, in our Group of Members, we agree with the text of the proposal of an authentic interpretation and also with the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u165	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the proposal to adopt an authentic explanation, the text of an authentic interpretation and the amendment of the Committee on Labour, the family, social affairs and persons with disabilities. Several of the panellists have cancelled their debate, so we have on schedule Mrs Marjano Kotnik Popotat, Dr Andrejo Črnak Meglič and Mag. Ivan Vogrin. We'll start with Dr. Andrea Montenegro.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I see that there is no particular compunction for the debate, we have already said most of it in the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I would just like to say that, despite some of the concerns of the Legislative and Legal Service, that there is a need for an authentic interpretation, I also believe that it is better to write down the legal standard in a way that makes it clear. In view of the fact that the content was also set out in the social dialogue, in fact, it is now even more specifically stated in this amendment, which we have prepared for an authentic interpretation, this is said to be nomotechnically aligned with the recommendations of the Legislative and Legal Service, so that I can re-examine only the support of this amendment or the adoption of an authentic interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The next one — I don't see him in the hall — is mag. Ivan Vogrin. He's not in the hall. Mr. Jerko Chehovin. He gave up. I don't see Mr. Franco Jurša either. Maja Dimitrovski was also cancelled. Mag. Andrei Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Of course, I was reported to the end of the debaters for clarification if necessary. I see that the debate is extremely modest, and I have nothing to add to what I have already said on behalf of the Group of Members. In the Slovenian Democratic Party we join the position of the Legal and Legislative Service. If the Legislative and Legal Service considers that the rule of law in Article 206 is clear enough not to assess the need for further clarification with an authentic explanation, then it cannot be contested without valid arguments. I didn't hear them here today. Moreover, I think that any further interference with the legal order with some interpretations would further strengthen the imprudentness of this legal order, which is already already problematic in this country. That is why, of course, we are reserved in the parliamentary group for such authentic explanations.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-11-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u169	Thank you very much. I'm asking if maybe the government wants to add something to the debate? [[He doesn't want to.]] We will decide on the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation, the text of the authentic interpretation and the amendment in accordance with the meeting's time frame tomorrow, 12 June 2014, in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of agenda item 1. This concludes this agenda item. I also interrupt the 69th extraordinary meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. However, Members and Members of Parliament are informed that in 15 minutes, the Committee on the Economy will begin its meeting in a large salon. Good day to you all and good luck!
