ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 21st session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Janja Klasinc, Mrs Janja Attack, Mag. Melita Župevc, Mrs Marija Plevčak, Dr László Göncz, Mr Brane Golubović, Mr Matjaž Zanoškar, Mr Srečko Meh, Mr Samo Bevk and Mr Ivan Simčič. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a law amending the law on state administration by emergency procedure. The microphones seem to be coming off by themselves. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mag. Renati Zatler, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The government proposes to amend the Law on State Administration by emergency procedure. This is an amendment to Article 30 of the current law governing the work area of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. The work area of European cohesion policy, following the proposed amendment, will no longer be part of the work area of this ministry. The tasks in this field of work are transferred to a special government service. The law also regulates specific transitional provisions which regulate the deadline for the establishment of a government service in connection with the proposed amendment of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology's field of work. The integration of cohesion policy tasks into the IGRT framework has not proved appropriate in practice. The managing authority shall carry out specific tasks of coordination and supervision of the ministries. We believe that changes or the establishment of a government service will improve the conditions for drawing on European funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u3	Thank you, too. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Jerk Čehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u4	Thank you, President. Nice greetings for both Ministry representatives, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, as a parent working body, has considered the proposal for a law amending the Law on State Administration. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be 6. 12. At its 74th meeting, the Council decided that the proposal for a law should be dealt with on an urgent basis. On the basis of the request of the group of Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank to reconsider the decision of the College, the National Assembly decided at its 21st meeting that the draft law should be considered in accordance with an urgent procedure. The Committee was informed in advance of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on national regulation. In an additional explanation for the articles, the representative of the proposer, State Secretary Renata Zatler, said that the proposed law from the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology's work excluded the European cohesion policy. These tasks will be carried out by the government from now on. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, Katarina Kralj, said that the comments made in their written legal opinion were taken into account by means of an amendment tabled by the coalition groups, or had previously been duly clarified by the proposer. The representative of the Council of State, Councillor Jernej Verbič, presented the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on State regulation, which supports the proposed solutions and believes that the excellent functioning of the government service responsible for drawing on European cohesion funds should become one of the priorities of government policy. In the debate, members of the opposition opposed the proposed amendment. They cautioned that the Government is seriously behind in the proposed reorganisation. In their view, this should take place at the time of adoption of the State budget or at the latest at the end of 2013. They also drew attention to projects that were still under way due to unencumbered or unencumbered European funds and to the financial consequences that the proposed law would have. Members of the coalition supported the proposed solutions because they will bring more effective and effective European funding. Cohesion policy is the priority of this government, and financial results and the new financial perspective 2014-2020 will certainly be better. They pointed out that the deadline set on 1 March 2014 for the start of the government service was fixed as extreme and is therefore expected to start working earlier. The representative of the applicant explained that the draft law had already been submitted in early December 2013 and was expected to be adopted by the end of 2013. The proposed solution is to simplify the implementation of the tasks of cohesion policy and improve the conditions for drawing on European funds, increasing the responsibilities and responsibilities of the operators of these tasks. The financial implications of the state budget law are not borne by law, as no new employment is foreseen by moving to another location and new employment. The Committee then adopted an amendment to Article 4 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended law, which includes the adoption of the amendment, is prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u5	Thank you, too. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Tomaž Lisec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u6	Nice greeting, President; distinguished secretary of state, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! There is yet another law before us that clearly proves that this government does not have a compass and that no coalition treaty is helping it. Because it's hard to work if you don't know what and how, and if you're talking one thing, you're doing another. And it's hard for such a politician to follow, and it's even harder to understand. However, it is normal for such a policy to oppose and point out the inconsistencies of such conduct. The government proposes, I quote, that "in the process of preparing for the implementation of the European Cohesion Policy in the new programming period starting on 1 January 2014", that is, the Government is already late, "in due course, an organisational unit or government service is formed and this ensures a clear definition of the governance authorities or the means of ensuring an adequate level of legal certainty in the exercise of the powers and responsibilities of the management bodies. The establishment of a government service clearly establishes an organisational unit of the Government as a body of exercise also for the unequivocal determination of the powers and responsibilities of the authorities and individuals." So in marriage and so in theory; but practice is and will show completely the opposite. In short, the government is late for a very important topic, namely EU funding for 2007-2013 and the preparation of the project for the next 2014-2020 period. And he mistakenly thinks that the transfer of the European Cohesion Policy service will fix everything. In doing so, we must not forget that everyone as serious as any government would think about such changes at least when preparing budgets for 2014 and 2015. Not a month before the beginning of the new period. And in doing so, amazingly, the government's representatives are advocating that there will be nothing new. But everything will be new, everything will be great and everything will work and, of course, everything will be better in their opinion, but they do not even know what the new tasks will be, what these better tasks will be, what will be with human resources. Well, probably officials have been working at slow pace ever since the Minister left for his economy, I apologize for the economy. And when one of the smart ones from the coalition MPs' quota is that lady who knows herself at large and small rounds, who via e-mail called for the expulsion of that blonde or state secretary at the Ministry of Economy, who was all of whom acknowledged that she was familiar with European cohesion policy. Yeah, that's possible in this government, too. Nobody even knows what and what will happen with the equipment, documentation, and premises of the new job. It is therefore a fact that EU funding and planning will cost at least another 1 month in relation to the law and at least a few months in relation to the practice of the Slovenian State Office. That's how long it's going to take to move, plan, change acts. In the SDS, we do not believe that this reform of the state administration will cost anything, and even less we believe that the post will improve. In short, it is a famo pira of this government, because today it is clearly a priority to draw on EU funds. And practice is going to deny this priority more than ever. Well, perhaps an EU project will come to the capital at the expense of the rest of Slovenia, as is also evident from the records of government representatives and representatives of the capital. In short, even under this law, nothing will be better. No more euro because of this law will come from European funds to our country, because obviously it is not a will, and there is no desire, as is evident from the state secretary's performance for a few seconds. If it were a wish, it wouldn't be the Ministry of Economy without a boss for three months. But the government coalition will today applaud the marriage in the mistaken belief that everything will be better today. He won't! In SDS ad hoc, I change the law only because of the pear fama, which is clearly the priority of this government, the drawing of European funds, we do not believe. That's why we won't support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u7	Mag. Majda Potter will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, Members and Members of Parliament! Today, we are adopting a very modest law, which must be said that we have received warnings from Europe that the service for cohesion policy should not be placed in the Ministry of Economy. The biliary opposition to this law can be understood because it is also heard from the economy about the complexity of the procedures for achieving cohesion funds. Who set up this system of enforcement, but they know. It was not this government or the government of Borut Pahor. We support the proposed solution in the Group of Social Democrats. We regret that the law was not adopted as planned until the end of 2013. Whether drawing on cohesion funds is the advantage of a government or not, let me mention only from the final report, which states: In accordance with the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of 10. 10. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, in its role as the managing authority for the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund in cooperation with the ministries involved in the implementation of cohesion policy, has drawn up an action plan to accelerate the absorption of European cohesion funds –the objective is convergence. The action plan shall present a summary of the state of drawing on operational programmes, the drawing on ministries and content, the risk assessment and the key findings of the proposed measures. Here I will stop and say that, by the end of September 2013, contracts were signed by the focal points in almost 90% to draw on cohesion policy funds at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs for almost 70%; that at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport they were exhausted at 56.4%. However, let those who successfully draw on or challenge the use of cohesion funds also ask themselves why it is in those ministries where the efficiency of drawing is very high that we are constantly faced with many allegations. We should look back, and we should look at the immediate present as well, and we should see that the successful absorption of cohesion funds for a lot of people is also a problem. We would like to see how it is at the beginning of the new perspective to set up a structure that will also allow for good pumping in accordance with the requirements of the European Union; and to do everything possible to simplify the procedures. As we say, the Social Democrats will support the proposed changes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u9	Thank you, too. Ms Kristina Valenčič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Dear President, Secretary of State with a co-worker, colleague and colleague! We are not adopting this amendment to the State Administration Act because of any EU directives, but because of our own national need to make more efficient use of available European funds. It is known that Slovenia has absorbed only half of the European funds from the 2007-2013 financial period. During this period Slovenia is entitled to cohesion policy funds under the Convergence Objective. We thus have €4.2 billion of European funds to be spent by the end of 2015. The maximum backlog is for the operational programme for environmental and infrastructure projects, where only 30% of the proceeds are achieved. In view of the poor results of the use of these funds so far, and given the extremely limited resources in the state budget, it is quite understandable that the Government is proposing additional measures with a view to improving the transparency, efficiency and responsiveness of the system of implementation of European cohesion policy in the new financial perspective. The Government, in line with the Court of Auditors' recommendations, proposes the establishment of a government service responsible for European cohesion policy, thus clearly setting up a management body for the successful and efficient use of European cohesion policy funds. In line with the experience gained from practice, a centralised management body is being introduced to achieve greater transparency, efficiency and responsiveness of the system, smooth coordination and better communication between all participants in the system, simple and efficient financial management, a comprehensive review of the implementation of European cohesion policy in both programming periods. The centralised way of managing has also proved successful in other areas, for example in common public procurement, the single pay system, and we support these changes in the Civil Gazette. We note, however, that 85% of the problems and congestion associated with the use of European funds are due to complicated procedures and unnecessary red tape. We therefore call on the Government, in addition to the creation of a central authority responsible for European cohesion policy, to carry out the process of optimising drawing procedures. In the Civil Gazette, we support all the changes that will reduce the administrative burden, introduce paperless operations and ensure transparency in the use of European funds. There is also a need for continuous implementation of preventive activities to detect irregularities and fraud early. At the same time, we propose that the government introduce a centralised management approach in other common areas, such as information technology, administrative management and elsewhere, as this would achieve better use of available financial resources and simplify the functioning of state authorities. As we say, Members of Parliament and Members of the National Gazette will support the changes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr Janez Ribič will present the position of the Ambassador of the Slovenian People's Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u12	Thank you for the floor, honourable President of the National Assembly; representatives, representatives of the Government; honourable Members and Members! Drawing on European funds from the start of the financial perspective in 2007 to this day, when the perspective is concluded, is one of the worst regulated and organised areas in our national administration. With rare, unfortunately too short exceptions, such as the period of the entire 2012 period, which has accelerated the preparation of projects and applications for reimbursement from the European budget and the adoption of additional spending rights that have enabled the implementation of already prepared major projects in the field of environmental infrastructure. Members of the Slovenian People's Party have been among the most vocal critics of drawing funds from the European Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund for a number of years, as we are still aware that they are, and will for some time be, virtually the only investment funds available to the State. The figures on the drawback of funds are, in our view, a worrying concern, as we are practically ahead of the end of the financial perspective 2007-2013. The projects must be completed by the end of next year. In fact, we have absorbed only 50 % of our spending rights. Here you can see how successful our well-paid bureaucracy is. Even more worrying is the fact that, months ago, a team of staff members was literally cut down at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology to watch over the area of European funds. At the most important moment when all the human resources and organisational potentials should be combined in the direction of one objective – efficient drawing and preparation of quality programming documents for the financial perspective 2014-2020, there has been a literal chaptering of the managing authority. Just because someone didn't like the lady who covered the area very well. Finally, let me get to the content of the proposed amendment to the Law on State Administration. As we know, the law restores government service as a single body for managing European cohesion policy, with the aim of improving operationality and making European funds more efficient. That government service is expected to be operational on 1 March this year. In principle, we have no problems with the proposed solutions in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, since the organisational form of government administration is probably more appropriate. We fear, however, that the proposed reorganisation will constitute a period of months of work on the content, which we cannot really afford and must not afford at this critical moment. More than form, content is important for us – how projects and software documents will come from this government service. Unfortunately, we have some documents — such as. The smart specialisation strategy 2014-2020, which the European Commission literally tore apart last week, and the draft operational programme for the implementation of the European cohesion policy 2014-2020, which clearly goes in the direction of centralisation – do not give off optimism. We only hope that the most responsible – that is, the President of the Government and the rest of the Council of Ministers, who is watching over the use of European funds – will really focus all the potentials on our country's development in line with the principles of coherent regional development and that cohesion policy will be targeted in a polycentric way. We do not intend to oppose the proposed law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, despite many substantive concerns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u13	Thank you, too. Mr Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, President. A respected secretary of state with co-workers. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Once again, we have before us a government amendment to the Law on State Administration, which our Group of Members will give its support. In our parliamentary group, we note that we are opening or establishing a re-establishment service to ensure the implementation of European cohesion policy and more efficient use of resources over a certain period of time. We are aware of the importance of cohesion policy and its associated financial resources. The fact is, over the past seven years, our country has been targeted. 4.2 million euros; we will leave about 800 million euros in the Brussels cash register. However, in the current financial perspective 2014-2020, a ca is intended for Slovenia. 3.3 billion Euros of funds. This body, or previously appointed Government Service of the Republic of Slovenia for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, already existed until the end of 2010, when it had to be terminated after a government decision and attached to the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. Today, we can assess that this withdrawal and secession move was wrong, as such organisational redeployments lead to stagnation and increased potential conflicts of interest. Nevertheless, let me say that it is again the decisions of individual governments and the political redistribution of individual organisational units. According to our behaviour, this Government proposal is meaningful and very relevant, as we will regain a single and independent governance body that will operate in one place and will be more operational, flexible and responsive. Although we have almost a third less resources in this financial framework, it will be necessary to seek synergies with other available European and state resources to achieve better cohesion results. It argues that the emphasis was on the effectiveness of drawing, but some believe that the effects achieved were too small, particularly environmental, social and economic impacts. Taking into account the Court of Auditors’ finding that it is necessary to ensure and create an organisational unit or government service as a management body for a comprehensive European cohesion policy, the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will provide support to the Government's proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u15	Thank you, too. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Dear President, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Ministry! We have only amended the Law on State Administration in this mandate several times. And we're transferring the areas from one ministry to another, and then possibly back again. For this reason, the State Prosecutor's Office and the public administration, local self-government and some other areas. All these organisational changes entail a huge amount of administrative work and, consequently, unnecessary material costs: from the replacement of writing tables to the most banal costs, transfers of assets, transfers of public servants from one ministry to another or other authorities, and so on. We are constantly dealing with only some forms, not the content – and this is the key problem of this country. The government, in its current proposal for amendments to the law, is transferring the European cohesion policy from the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology to a self-serving government service. The implementation of the European Cohesion Policy in the new 2014-2020 programming period, which started at 1 January 2015, is the reason for the intervention in the State Administration Act. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. As a second reason to intervene in the law, it avoids conflicts of interest arising between different ministries in drawing European funds. The Christian Democrats of New Slovenia are not inclined to make permanent organisational changes, as these do not, as a rule, bring added value in the content itself. The regulation of this service within the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology seems to us to be an appropriate solution and has also proved to be more effective in practice than the solution we are now going back to. In the last two years, we have managed to draw almost as much resources as we have in the last four years together. In general, in terms of drawing on European cohesion funds, we cannot really boast of success. In the financial perspective 2007-2013, we have managed to absorb only 57% of the available resources so far. This should be of great concern to many. We Christian Democrats believe that there is a need to make substantive legislative changes in the area of European funds. Large obstacles to European funds are procurement procedures and related audit procedures. Indeed, the area of public procurement requires, in our firm belief, as soon as possible a more fundamental legislative reform based on entirely different starting points than the current rules. Another important reason why we are lagging behind in the area of drawing on cohesion funds is the delays and shortcomings in the preparation of projects that could be financed from European cohesion funds, as well as the shortcomings of the guardianship of individual ministries. Human resources fluctuations and a better knowledge of the European cohesion policy area by the new staff in charge of this area also contribute greatly to this situation. I must say, too, that we regret that — I don't know how — the Magus was expelled. Monica Kirbish Royce, who was an expert in this field. That's why there's been a big human hole in this area. It's a shame about the state of Slovenia. The solution to improve the situation in the area of European funding is not seen in the organisational changes in this area, but in ensuring the continued continuity of work and a good staff force in the field of European cohesion policy across different ministries and better and regular coordination of their work, which could also be achieved in the current organisation of this area within the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. Members of the New Slovenia Group The draft law amending the Law on State Administration will not be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u17	Thank you. Mr Jerko Čehovin will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Dear Members, the rest of you are here! The proposal for a law amending the Law on State Administration brings only a novelty, namely the establishment of a government service in the field of cohesion policy. Until now, the procedures have been coordinated by one of the Directorates at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, which is problematic because of the hierarchical principle, since the Directorate is difficult to coordinate its ministry, let alone other ministers. In addition to proposing the establishment of a faster and more efficient European fund-raising facility, the amendment follows the Court of Auditors' opinion, which proposed the establishment of a specific body for the implementation of cohesion policy due to very specific tasks and clear exchanges between participants and to avoid conflicts of interest. The fact is that in the area of cohesion policy there is an urgent need to ensure a better and more efficient use of European funds, as a total of € 3.24 billion is available in Slovenia in the new financial perspective for the implementation of EU cohesion policy in the 2014-2020 period. And these funds need to be used to the greatest extent possible, because they are resources that cannot be provided within our budget at this time. It is therefore a means that constitutes a key instrument for competitiveness in Slovenia. The establishment of a government service is a strong institution that will be responsible for the effective and proper management and implementation of cohesion policy. The European Commission has also provided for an extension of the financial period 2007-2014 by 2 and 3 years. In 2013, we recorded the largest payments so far, more than 500 million. In doing so, it should also be pointed out that there will be no additional recruitment of public servants and no need for additional funding, as the government service will take over the relevant public servants and equipment of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. Until the implementation of the relevant budgetary documents, funds for the operation of the government service will also be provided in the finance plan of the existing ministry. The successful implementation of cohesion policy or the effective and efficient use of European funds is urgently needed at a time when job creation and sustainable development are crucial. In Positive Slovenia, we are confident that more efficient drawing will also be done by a self-sustaining government service that will provide a flexible, flexible organisational and management structure, in short, better configuration. In Positive Slovenia, we will therefore support the proposal for a law amending the Law on State Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u19	Thank you, too. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. And since in the second reading the amendments to the amended bill were not tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 18th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS ON THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE ACCESS TO PUBLIC INFORMATION IN OTHER DEFINITIONS The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Renati Zatler, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u20	Thank you very much, President. Dear Members and honourable Members! The government is proposing a new Law on Access to Public Information. The purpose of this amendment is to increase the degree of transparency of the operations of companies and other private business entities owned by the State and municipalities. The main objective of the new Law on Access to Public Information is to ensure that the availability of funds from state-owned and community-owned business entities is effective, responsible and lawful. Create competitive market conditions for those companies, especially small and medium-sized companies that want to operate with state-owned companies and municipalities or compete with them on the market – thus creating a healthy business environment where competition and market conditions will be free. Ensure the transparency of the remuneration of managers in these companies and ensure transparent staffing to ensure that the best individuals in these companies come to the management positions, taking into account the experience required. This will significantly reduce corruption risks, which is also the purpose of a broader package of transparency legislation. The proposed amendments followed the principle of proportionality. With the amendment of the law, we will bind business entities where there is a dominant influence of the state or municipalities, which means, above all, majority ownership. This means that this will also apply to banks. New entrants will not be obliged to provide all information or will not be bound to publish all documents, but only to specific key information, which is focused primarily on expenditure — contracts for the procurement of goods, construction, agent, advisory services, sponsorship, donor contracts and others. Access to information of a public nature will also be provided for data on remuneration and staffing of management and members of the Supervisory Board. We will not burden new debtors with administrative burdens or reduce them to a minimum. These companies will also be reintroduced into the Supervisory Board, in particular public economic institutions and public companies. All business entities under dominant influence will also have to publish basic information on donor, advisory and other copyright contracts on their websites according to proposals. The objective of the novel and the measures envisaged are, in our view, necessary, appropriate and proportionate in terms of the weight of the consequences. It is essential because corruption is a real and very pressing problem in Slovenia. It is also appropriate because transparency and the right to access information of a public nature is seen as an extremely important tool in preventing corruption in the world. In particular, it attaches great weight to the so-called pro-active transparency. The measures are also proportionate because, as stated above, the new obliged business entities will not be obliged to access all documents; administrative burdens are also decreasing. As regards documents under the Public Information Access Act, it generally allows business secrecy to be established, except for 4 basic information on expenditure transactions, these are the type of business, value, partner and date and duration of the contract. Absolute public data will be data on donor and advisory contracts, figures on the level of remuneration and managers. The government proposes that you accept the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u21	Thank you, too. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Jerk Čehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u22	Thanks again for saying that. The report is very long, so I'm going to try to shorten it somehow. We discussed it at the 15th session. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its We were informed earlier of the opinion of the Council of Justice, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Council of State, the letter of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the amendments of the SDS Group of Members to Articles 2, 4 and 6; the amendments of the Coalition Group of Members to Articles 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 23, 24, 25, 26, 28, 29 of Article 9. 1. and amendments to the amendments to Articles 2, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14, 21, 23, 26, 29 and 14. 1. 2014; and with the amendment of Article 2 of the SLS Group of Members to Article 9. 1. and amending the amendment to Article 2 of 10. 1. The representative of the proposer, the Minister of the Interior, who, in addition to the explanation of the articles, said that the purpose of the proposed novel is to strengthen the transparency of the business, public commitment, responsibility, integrity in the management of economic public institutions, public undertakings, businesses and other private legal persons under the dominant influence of the Republic of Slovenia; also local self-government communities and other public law persons by identifying new public information commitments, by establishing a Register of Commitments and establishing a centralised and uniformly proactive publication of data on the expenditure of committed persons. In a presentation of a written legal opinion, Sladjana Ješić, a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, said that the proposal for a law extending the circle of public information, establishing new exceptions, new procedural rules and new criminal provisions included important substantive changes and additions to existing legal arrangements. It explained that the actual scope of the amendment exceeded half of the scope of the current law, so instead of the novel it would be more appropriate to cut down under the new law. It also drew attention to the transitional provisions, as they felt that the deadlines for entry into force were too short for such major changes as the proposed novelties. The representative of the Council of State, Councillor Rajko Fajt, said by presenting a written opinion that the proposed amendment was supported by the Council of State. Informative authorised Natasha Pirc Musar said that the proposed law supports. Slovenian Chamber of Commerce representative Alenka Avberšek said that the participatory democracy that follows the novel does not object, but they have reservations about the disclosure of company data in 100% of the country's ownership, but works on the market, as this would, in their view, reduce the competitiveness of these companies in the domestic market. The representative of Holding of Slovenian power plants Ana Zaletelj said that they opposed the provisions which introduce disclosure of data from companies owned by the State and operating on the market. They support the idea of collecting this data; not that it is accessible to the public. In their view, it would be sufficient for these data to be made available to owners and law enforcement authorities, as it is information which is defined as a business secret under the Company Act. President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption of Magi Goran Klemenčič, the outgoing president, said that the proposed amendment supports the work governing the so-called para-State sector, since corruption risks are the greatest in this area. The representative of Integrity Vid Doria said that transparency had become one of the key elements in preventing corruption and that they supported the proposed law. Support was expressed in the debate by the members of the Committee for the proposed amendment. Members of the opposition pointed out that a circle of commitments should be made [[Incomprehensible]] extend it to lawyers and law firms operating with business entities. Moreover, in their view, it should also be extended to banks which have received State aid if they are the subject of State measures. The representatives of the Ministry of the Interior explained that the proposals tabled by the opposition Members, the report of the plenary and the solutions they agreed to would be drafted in the form of amendments. The Committee then adopted amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups by Articles 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 21, 23, 25, 26, 28 and 29. The Committee did not adopt the amendments of the SDS Group of Members to Articles 4 and 6. The amendments of the SDS Group to Article 2 and the amendment of the SLS Group to Article 2 of the bill have become irrelevant. The Committee adopted 3 amendments to Article 2, Article 3, Article 2, and Article 23. [[End of discussion warning sign]] In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u23	Thank you for presenting the committee report. Since the Assembly held a general debate on the draft law at its 19th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups, so we are moving on to a discussion on the articles and the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 2. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 8 and the amendments of the SDS and SLS MPs and the amendment of the coalition groups. Anybody want to talk? The word has magic. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, President. It was promised at the meeting of the home working body that the proposer would prepare proposals for amendments for the plenary session, which would take further account of the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service. I am taking this opportunity to point out that all the amendments tabled so far in the explanatory memorandum also state that they are trying to implement the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service more consistently. It has been announced that we are opening time for a third hearing, to which some of the comments can be made, because we are deciding on a very important law. Let me stress that the Social Democrats' Group fully supports the objectives of the amendment of this law, but it is aware that it is important to note with great care that the proposed amendments also take into account our desire to realize the implementation of business secrecy. Thus, an economic operator can maintain a business secret and, if disclosure of data would jeopardise the competitiveness or interests of an economic operator, then in the next steps, those wishing to obtain such information will be able to enforce the requirement to obtain such information. The next instance, however, is the one – which will be provided in normal procedures in the appeal process or in administrative procedures – where it will also enforce the possibility of determining whether such a procedure is possible or not. However, I have come forward because this Article 8 is exactly the same as that of Article 6a. It is also possible to consider whether business secrets are sufficiently secure or not. And as the Secretary of State said in the introduction, the data is absolutely public. However, there is also a possibility in the law that the requirement of maintaining business secrecy is being enforced. We believe that it is the interest of the public – how much the obligations are imposed on citizens and citizens by some of the last measures, including recapitalisation – that it is entitled to transparency and to the public. In the SD Group of Members, we will support the proposal of 4 coalition groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u25	Thank you, too. The word is wanted by the Minister, Dr. Gregor Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u26	Thank you very much. This is one of the key articles of this law, and I suggest that you really read it carefully because it divides or degrades the whole system, how information can be obtained on business operations under the predominant influence of the country. Here there must be as little business secrets as possible or so I will say – also business secrecy does not drive a company away from itself to provide basic data, data on individual expenditure, what it buys, what it buys, what it buys, who buys from, who buys from, what donor contracts, what sponsor contracts, what advice contracts, and so on. This Article is key to the transparency of the para-State sector, in which hundreds of millions are turned. If we have state authorities on the one hand – the National Assembly, the Ministry, the courts, the prosecutions, etc. — under careful scrutiny, under strong supervision, everything is public, everything is transparent, everyone can access any data. On the other hand, we have access to the same or similar information in the mass of state-owned enterprises completely closed because they can always refer to business secrecy and simply show nothing. And that's a big problem. How much of a manoeuvring space to flow money from companies that are our common property, our common assets, into private accounts. I don't know if we're imagining the dimensions of this problem. The law will not solve all of this overnight, but will significantly increase the transparency of business, thereby significantly reducing corruption risks and significantly increasing the responsibility to manage these companies, as those who decide on these transactions will consider three times before they decide on what kind of business if they know that the public will be informed. They will have to follow their decisions and explain them much more. How are individual sports companies, sports clubs and so on sponsored? Intransparency, no criteria, over the finger, only gets that club that loves the CEO of a company. When we recently heard about a nice and large donation to a sports club in Primorska, I was called by a mayor from northeastern Slovenia and he said, but we would also get, maybe not a million and a half as much as they got, but some 200,000 would get from this same company, which is not a coastal company, but is an all-Slovenian company. That's so much we can't even think about. And on the one hand, the exact rules of public procurement that apply to all of us and the public sector, the Court of Auditors' supervision, the public data, everything you want, in the public sector. In these companies, which convert hundreds of millions, no rules on procurement, no transparency, there is no supervision of the Court of Auditors and none of that. At least one segment will now be improved by this law, this is the transparency segment. And very important – public information on salaries, benefits, discharges and other ratings of members of supervisory boards and members of administrations. On the one hand, we have extremely limited and regulated salaries in the public sector, starting with the salary of the Prime Minister, if you want to, which is less than €3,000 net; on the other hand, we are looking at the salaries of the directors of these companies owned by the state, which are twice or three times higher, and they are still hiding them. Not for long, good luck. As for the amendment to this article proposed by the opposition, namely SDS and SLS, I expected a word from Mr Shirtzl, perhaps he wrote this amendment. I would personally support this amendment. I also suggest that the coalition parties take another look at this amendment. It's about publicizing those loans, bad loans, these are D and E credits that won't be transferred to DUTB for any reason, and they'll stay at banks. It is also right that the public is aware of the information on these loans. After all, it would be good to hear an explanation of why some of these loans remain there and do not go to a bad bank. By the third reading, we will have to deal with some interesting issues. Among other things, I think it would be very good to answer the question whether a bad bank is a debtor under Article 1 or 1a. Those who have looked closely at the law will see that this is quite a difference. Where an entity is a party under Article 1 of the Law, it means that the debtor is, like the National Assembly, the Ministry or a public institution. However, if after 1.a, these companies are under the dominant state influence, but this regime is slightly less strict. Thus, if there is a trade secret on one contract, only the basic information contained in this contract shall be disclosed. Then the option is the so-called way out if the company proves that disclosure would harm its competitive position. I think that for a bad bank – especially after what we have been publicly accompanying in the media lately – full transparency must apply. We recapitalized banks with billions of dollars in tax money. Now these bad loans are being transferred to a bad bank, and we have the right to know exactly what and how the bad bank will do with this, how it will manage these claims, how it will sell what it gets into insurance, how it will sell claims – we need to know everything. These things must not slip away from us, that we will not again over the years see how some process has gone to hell, as we have seen in the past. Until the third reading, this consideration of the breadth, the scope of transparency of the operation of the bad bank. The amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Slovenian People's Party, I think it is appropriate. Let the coalition think about support. Even if this treatment is not supported by chance, I think it is necessary to write and apply something very similar until the third reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u27	Thank you, Minister. There is still a desire to discuss, so I suggest you join the debate. We are discussing Article 8 and the amendments of the parliamentary groups of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Slovenian People's Party and the amendment of the coalition. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u28	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Minister with his associates! Here I agree with the Minister that these are key amendments and key articles in the law. And that is precisely why I must say that I am extremely concerned, because the implementation of the Minister now also shows that there is no more coalition support for these matters. It is not just our amendment, which is perfectly logical according to what the coalition has said in the last month to achieve pear effects that data for all bad loans will become public – who hired them, who approved them and all that. We're already reading in the paper today, and I don't know if this amendment is exactly what it's all about, but the press has detected it. The National Society Coalition protects against the Supervisor, from disclosure of the data. Companies with the dominant influence of public law. I suspect and also after what Mr Čehovin said today, it was in the morning reports on Radio Slovenia that the majority of the coalition had already come to the conclusion that these matters were to be stopped. That out of all this, this big talk, there's nothing. However, the Minister used this pianistly well in the past 14 days or months. Once again, I say that there is no way he can provide support for our amendment, although he says it is necessary to support it. Which is perfectly logical, colleagues and colleagues, from these parties, which are just under direct influence – the dominant ones, I will express myself, the financial and political oligarchies arising from the previous system and which are responsible for this outrageous robbery in our banks. And of course it's perfectly clear, you've got befel, I apologize for the foreign that you have to protect these people in all ways. This is not only expressed in relation to this law. It is also expressed in relation to the Archives Act, expressed itself to the Commission on Petitions, where the Minister, your representative, must have supported such a non-civilisation proposal for the then play and then barrage of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u29	Mr Jerovšek, allow me to warn you that you are under a completely different law under Article 8.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u30	No, I have to say this, this is a related matter. Excuse me, President, I have so much political instinct, and I know that these are related things. I also received information on how they conditioned the Civil Gazette; this should be told to the public. Please, President, don't stop me. I must also tell you that you will never be president of the Republic. On this point, Mr Pahor, when he was the President, the Democrat, and he never stopped me, was a plethora in Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u31	Okay. Mr Jerovšek [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u32	And you're stopping me here. Now you want to deconcentrate me. There it turned out — The National Charter had to be, a Member who is even a humanist by profession should be, supported the proposal that the family should not have the right to bury the relatives; the innocent victims of the Resurrection are not buried or have no right to the grave.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u33	Mr Jerovšek, we are talking about information of a public nature.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u34	I told you this was also related to the Archives Act, that session. At that time, the Civil Code granted a concession to support such non-civilisational proposals. Today, the minister explains that there is no more support because these same circles that have come to light in those two laws and in those two cases have pushed this coalition under the dominant influence of the former regime responsible for bank robbery and will continue until the third hearing. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u35	Mr Jerovšek, I have already reminded you twice. If you don't follow the Rules of Procedure, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u36	Now I am speaking precisely about this – until the third reading everything set out here in these laws will be eliminated in a sophisticated manner. And I stand for this, colleagues and colleagues, to stop supporting these people and these circles, this oligarchy, which is responsible for the situation in this country; more than we do for the public. But we're also guilty because you support such things. You're very sincere in supporting them. And if journalists in a newspaper, which is not opposition, find that the coalition protects state companies from the supervisor, it is said against publishing, it is perfectly clear to me. I agree here with the minister, whom I think we are also going in a direction that is not smart, but has already had to correct these coalition amendments. His pleas now that transparency is more important, of course, is normal, is beneficial. It is quite clear that we all know what he is asking for in politics, what he has pointed out between the lines — that he no longer has support in the coalition lines. Who told me? I'm saying it's still in the papers. There is no reason that what is in international standards is considered to be a poor claim that these are credits in group D and E, where 90 days have elapsed since the repayment deadline; however, this is not a bad credit, a bad claim on the bank and that this must be published. But you don't agree and you keep saying business secrets and I don't know what. All these business secrets, which we have consistently respected, have led to our being robbed of our country. Under this cover, we've been robbed of our country. And you insist that this goes on. And yet another proof that the coalition had decided, for the most part, to protect the theft to the place, until the last breath, was that last week, when we discussed our Law amending the Banking Act, which was previously introduced as this Law on Access to Public Information. We have tabled the Banking Act on 17 December, a banking secret, a reasonable limitation of banking secrecy. That marriage was the reason why the minister and then probably someone remembered that through this law he was trying to achieve some of the same effects and greater public efficiency; the pierre he had learned. Last week, you smoothly rejected this law in the vote that it was not suitable for further consideration, although it stipulated that only the National Assembly and the Committee on Finance had access to data on bad claims. Ladies and gentlemen, who the hell can be a representative of the people to have an eye on this. If you take the right of all people, if, despite the fact that banks are being rehabilitated, they have already been rehabilitated twice, you make fun of citizens and taxpayers so that they can't find out. Since you support bad banking and bank robbery, or the National Assembly, where we are elected representatives of the people, you take this right by voting. The fact is, if there were elections today, people would call you off because of these two laws, be sure. Be sure! From the citizens, from the electorate, you can joke for a long time that you have successful media propaganda; but here people are sensitive and know who today claims that it must not be shown to the people and taxpayers who pay for these thievery, they do not deserve to sit in sentiries. And unfortunately, many of you are like that. Unconditional assistance – you have promised to hide this information. And once again, Minister, I'd be happy to make it a little clearer about the pressures that were being exerted in the coalition, more clearly. Previously on "The Rows"... I don't think all MPs can read between lines. It was clear to me what kind of pressures and what is to be done until the third reading, that there would be bank robbery, that this robbery would be protected until the end of time. And this is the fundamental political goal of at least 2 of the largest parties to this coalition, because they created you. They set you up, who so franticly defend each disclosure of a bank robbery, defend the disclosure of the Judgment, the murders of the 1980s, and so on. To the end, we will insist that these things prove to people that it is with the help of the people that we can heal the situation in our banking business. Without people's strong pressure to tell them the truth, that's not gonna work. Those who have such billions of money, free of money, can bribe anyone in the country, reach their own and bribe intensively. And it seems very strange to me that you do not support solutions that would once and for all, or at least try to cut this incest between those who have robbed the banks and the people and the elected representatives of the people in some parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u37	Thank you. Dr. Gregor Virant has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u38	Thank you. Maybe we didn't get along well. After 11 years of entry into force of the Public Information Act, this government and this coalition shall also open data in enterprises with dominant state ownership and shall open data on all bad loans transferred to a bad bank. Given your debate, we should applaud this law. This is the law that will open, expose, expose, if you want, all that is today, which has been done to this day, and which is still closed to the public until this law comes into force. Today, the public does not have the option of looking into the salaries of state-owned companies, either in ratings, or in departures, or in service cars, or in other ratings of members of administrations. He has neither the right to see contracts nor the basic data on contracts relating to sponsorships, donors, counselling, legal services, material acquisitions and so on. This law brings about a revolution in this sense. And this law, although systematically included in the Bad Bank Act, also brings to the public all the key information on bad loans transferred to the Bank's Claims Management Society or to the so-called bad bank. Data on the amount of credit, the data on the recipient of the loan, the amount of gross debt remaining to be paid, the data on who were the ones who approved the loan, and for the entire history – from the first contract to all the reprograms and everything that was. It's completely open. And so far, I can say that the coalition has fully supported everything I have proposed, absolutely everything proposed by the Ministry of the Interior, together with the Information Commissioner and the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. This is also one of the 15 proposals of the outgoing Commission Senate to prevent corruption in order to bring this law to an end. The amendment, which we are discussing so dramatically, is one detail in this law, not irrelevant, I agree, which is worth considering. I personally support it, but I cannot now give the commanders of the coalition to support it. I'm sure the coalition parliamentary groups will consider this. And one more thing I've been warned is that two amendments to the same article, if one was adopted, the other becomes irrelevant, even though I don't understand why. I think it's completely compatible, but the services have just drawn up a warning that if this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the coalition becomes irrelevant. To be clear, I am also in favour of allowing access to data on these loans remaining on banks, bad loans, i.e. loans from Group D and E. This has not yet been discussed in the coalition because this is a new proposal that came from the opposition. I think that there is every possibility that this proposal will receive support, and there is absolutely no need to be dramatic. However, I must make it very clear that this law is not a matter of some kind of pirate, but that this law actually brings great changes. I think that journalists who are professionally involved in obtaining and processing and transmitting information have felt that a wide range of new information is being opened to them is opening up to the whole public, how much things can be learned back and how much stronger the control of the public, the media and the general public, civil society, if you want, will be able to continue managing these companies. My opinion and the opinion of the National Gazette is that state-owned companies should be allowed to tender for private ownership as soon as possible, because this is the best guarantee that these companies will be well managed, that they will develop, that they will open jobs and that we will be able to reduce our public debt by buying them, that we will not pay billions of interest every year and that we are already here in these interest rates. But since we know that this will not be possible overnight, and because we know that all Slovenia does not think so and that much of the political space does not think so, it is necessary to ensure the most responsible management of these companies in the meantime. And an integral part of this responsible management is the transparency of their operations.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u39	Procedurally, Mr Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u40	The President, given what the Minister has warned and what the review says today, that if an amendment of two parliamentary groups is adopted, the amendment under number 2 becomes irrelevant – that is true. This is manipulation, contrary to the Rules of Procedure, because they do not refer to each other because it is an untransferable loan. It's an untransferable loan, and they're not in any conflict. And at least allow it! I consider some sabotage at work or the impact of real circles on what the services prepare and submit. This note must be withdrawn as soon as possible, as this note is made for the coalition to be able to plead that it cannot support it because its amendment is falling. They're not even in conflict with these two amendments. And I want you to also tell me who is preparing such notes, which are contrary to the Rules of Procedure, which are trying to try and prevent the National Assembly from adopting a good law that would have an effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u41	Thank you, Mr. Jerovšek. Of course, we will check until the vote on whether the second amendment is irrelevant if the first one is adopted. This is a job assignment, and we will take a detailed look at this until the vote. There are several applicants for the debate, so I will open the way for the application because Tomaž Lisec has already applied, then another. I invite you to report for discussion. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u42	Thank you very much, President. I explicitly ask the proposer whether, under this law, they will also be available to the public review of the copyright contract, the contracts of work that individual natural persons with State authorities have with regard to the various writings of laws, opinions, etc. That's the first question. And the second is my opinion. The law is great progress, but it is far too late, because already in the drafter’s writing it says that Sweden 1766 adopted the law, Denmark 1975, etc. We have brought the country to bankruptcy first, and now we are adopting laws that will not bring much. You know why not? Because we don't go through with this either. The minister said that the proposal or the SDS amendment was a detail, but the problems always lie in detail. The Property Change Act also had in principle a good purpose, but only in detail was it problematic. And look what happened to us. I think it's next. My colleague Jerovšek said that the minister used a good pierre. Good or bad – we'll see. And I think it's the next one. If the Minister is indeed in favour of supporting the SDS amendment, I can say from my own experience how to act. He should order his Members to vote in favour of the amendment. This is my experience, I have been in the parliamentary group for 3 months, this can be confirmed by former Minister Dr. Šuštersič, Dr. Pavliha, Mr. Stych – what the president of the National Gazette says is the vote. That's my experience. So, Minister, it is up to you that this amendment has been adopted, and that we will also remove that little detail and that it will all be public. Simply put, if we didn't steal anything, it's no big deal, you know. It's okay. Nothing will happen to anyone who didn't steal. According to his household, who didn't take money from the company into private accounts that he couldn't handle, etc. Nothing's gonna happen, and it can't happen. But if someone did it, then it's the right thing to do. And it's the same in banks, it's the same in control councils. This is a test of credibility. If the chief candidate is credible, he will, of course, act as usual: order his Members – I believe that this amendment is a good one, vote in favour. And just as we voted back then for when I was a member, we will now vote. But if this is a pear trick, as Comrade Jerovšek calls it, then what comes is coming. And of course it's not good, because the consequences are catastrophic and they're getting worse. Let's do what we have to do, and we'll be fine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u43	Thank you, too. Procedurally, Mr. Pavlišič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. President, I would ask you to intervene in such cases the insults that have been made in the National Assembly, namely that we do not vote in our conscience, but as our President has instructed us. That's absolutely not true, and I reject it the most. This can also be seen by Mr Vogrin from the results of the vote. In the last vote, we can look at, say, the Single Price Act of the Book, as we voted. Then you can look at the vote about raising the VAT that used to be; and there is a lot of such, for some controversial vote, in there. Mr. Vogrin, please keep your insults to yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u45	Thank you. At the same time, Mr Pavlišič, I hope you agree with me. It is best to answer such questions or claims as have been submitted by the mag. Ivan Vogrin, because I don't have an insight into what you do in individual groups. This is the responsibility of the individual parliamentary group and I think it was right for you to react and point out this procedure. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u46	Thank you. Of course, it is also possible to discuss what we have heard in one of the previous discussions. However, I would point out that the basic Act on Access to Public Information was adopted in 2003, but it is known who was the applicant and who was in the government at the time. And I do not think, as Mr Vogrin thinks, that it is possible to prevent people from believing in the well-intention of our conduct; after it is possible to hear that bad intentions and bad conduct are inherently attributed to entire parliamentary groups and parties. Such disqualifications are unworthy of the National Assembly and do not wonder why the National Assembly has such a low reputation. Because Members themselves are concerned that the opposite party is disqualified in the most impossible way. It's my protest against that kind of talk. Some are making progress, and as a snowball, they stick everything that sticks to them. I think that's unacceptable. I'm warning you again. The first law on access to information of a public nature was adopted at the beginning of this millennium, if you like, and it is known which government adopted it then. What needs to be said in this law: it is true that citizens and citizens have the right to know, but at the same time it is also up to the legislator to think carefully about whether to make such decisions, which can be taken by a higher body — that is, the Constitutional Court — will never be recognized as such provisions that do not pass the proportionality test or anything else. And in the National Assembly we have adopted quite a number of such laws, which the Constitutional Court has ordered to correct. It also seems unacceptable to me that we are just talking in front of each other about how bad we have legislation. Many of the laws that have brought into our legislation do not experience the same kind of criticism and anomalies as we do elsewhere in the European Union. Because all we have to say is that from the adoption of the law, to the application of the law and the enforcement of the law, there are also a number of important steps. However, I stopped by because I would like to prove with one more piece of information that the procedure or requirement for greater transparency is older than this law. Social Democrats were advocates of the AUKN. And the requirement for transparency is in line with one of the AUKN's requirements, namely, what are the basic data that are absolutely public. I would like to stress that the provisions of 17 October 2011 provide for transparency in the conclusion of business involving the expenditure of the company. And that was the sixth recommendation of AUKN. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, I would like to point out that those of you who are profaning just a group of Members, be a little bit truthful and look at yourself when a matter has become a matter of interest or something else. And I'm not letting you label any old influences and any ugly intentions when you're hiding information. Once again, even under the Company Act, business is a secret and not all views of documentation and accessibility are always just well-intentioned, it is also necessary to know. And what we are reminding the Social Democrats is absolute access to data that cannot cause economic damage. However, where business secrecy could prove to be harmful, the disclosure of business secrecy as detrimental to the business of an economic operator or natural person may be required. Or she'll endure the test of business secrecy, but it's another story, and I've already told you that in the administrative process, it's still possible to prove it. What the Minister was talking about is private property, like that which is a guarantee for better governance and something else, but it's a matter of policy for each of the parties. However, I think that it is a matter of general social consensus, of a broader social consensus, which is not present in Slovenian society at this point, whether it is really the privatisation of the whole outcome or the provision of a fairer society. It is only necessary to be a little more sensitive to hear what Slovenian civil society requires and to be heard by emerging parties, perhaps by others. But I believe that private property itself and everything that awaits us has not yet ensured a just society, but I am defending a fairer division in society, which will lead to a just society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u47	Thank you. Replica, Mr Jerovšek. Were you misunderstood?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u48	I was misinterpreted, and I was also embroiled by my colleague, Potter, with me. She said that such discussions, such as that of one of the predecessors, had an impact on the reputation of the National Assembly and wondered why the National Assembly had the same low reputation as it did. And I'm in charge of my colleague's trip. To this question, a colleague of mine answered best two or three days ago with her arrogant government and contemptuous attitude towards journalists, presented in a way that no one has ever presented. On the basis of such performances and such an attitude, journalists are often avenged by Members. And they don't write affirmatively about Members of Parliament. I constantly commend the journalists, the ones who do; but I know that they are under pressure from the owners to whom you give the right, and some of the editors who are just set up from the capital to present the situation in Parliament as well as the circle – which you represent, which you presented – fits. You're saying that your client advocates absolute access to basic data that can't be damaged. From here on out, it is a discretionary right to do what can and will not do harm. Tell me honestly that you're against data opening and stop bluffing. I see what is behind – protecting those who have robbed our banks and our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u49	Thank you. He's got magic in his hands. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u50	Thank you, President. The use of the rules of procedure with regard to the replica is perfectly clear. I think the replica was abused in this case because it was used on my performance on another occasion and a plural form of journalists was used. All I did was talk to a reporter, about a reporter, about a specific question, about a specific thing, about a specific situation. Moving the replica to my other behavior, which is generally a replica abuse. However, it would be good for Mr Jerovšek to look at some of his magnetograms when he spits on national media journalists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u52	Thank you, President, for your word. Nice greetings, Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I agree with the minister in this work when he says we're talking about a law that is fundamentally interfering with the regime in our country. Let me say immediately in the introduction that in the Slovenian People's Party we support both the amendment we are proposing and the amendment to Article 8 as well as the law as a whole. I am also of the opinion that the lack of transparency in our country is a very serious problem. And that the legislation, as we do have, and the experience we have accumulated in these years, since the law was adopted in its original form, have shown that in the Slovenian space it works — in one word — few honest people, people with expertise and also with some personality and other integrity. These people are in the ranks of politics between us; I think we can say that there are many such people among bankers, that many such people are obviously also among managers, entrepreneurs. Sometimes a person wonders about what integrity, expertise or impartiality is also in the media space. I think that – that we are raising the level of transparency, as mentioned in the materials, through the Scandinavian countries that have come the longest in this area – is the right direction. It is right that Members are truly responsible to deal with this law and that it is also adopted in the best possible form. When we entered the National Assembly two years ago, all of us had similar and crucial tasks to be assigned. One was certainly at the forefront – the rehabilitation of the banking system, we imagined it differently, some with new and new recapitalisations. Others with a bad bank. Another specific example or The task we set ourselves was transparent management of property owned by the State. Here too, the Slovenian state holding company is very complicated. The third and fourth tasks were certainly the consolidation of public finances and structural reform, which would lead to increased competitiveness in the Republic of Slovenia. I think our inventory is very low after two years, as far as these four priorities are concerned. We are responsible for doing what we have been elected to do in all of these four areas in the time available to us – what citizens and citizens expect us to do. This law is one of the steps in this direction. In this law, as I have already said, we answer just a few of the questions that we have mentioned. We see that because of the lack of integrity and integrity among people who manage state property, many things have happened in the past. A number of missed opportunities were at a time when these companies, if they had professional and credible people who would manage these companies better, could employ more people. We see that there are diverging deviant cases in the area of contract making, land sales, also sponsorships and the like. I do not think we would have a team in winter sports going to Soča, nor in summer, if it were not for a public company, state-owned companies would also finance athletes. And I also support that this will be the case in the future. I'm afraid we're really going to fall to this level where 2 million people, after some critical assessment, don't know, Munich or a third of Berlin, judge, not that we're going to be the best in sports. I support this path, but I also support the fact that these steps will be transparent, public, that people know that this is supported and that there is nothing wrong with it. I'm afraid sometimes we're mystifying a matter and making it a problem for someone to talk to if someone's giving advice. I think that this transparency and integrity, which will certainly be greater under this law, will be a step in this direction. As for the amendment itself and the area in which it is located, the Minister correctly identified it. We have already missed the crucial opportunity in this area. In the second half of last year, we passed important laws, we passed a law that guaranteed the liquidation of 2 banks, which would be very interesting to see all the numbers. If I understand correctly, the amendment of the coalition to Article 2 solves this. Please, Minister, if you confirm this, we will all be clear that we know this applies not only to those claims that are in the Bank Claims Management Company, but also to those claims where on the other hand there is a large bank hole due to controlled liquidation. In my knowledge, that's what's in it, and it's right that this is what's in this marriage. As far as the second opportunity is concerned, this has certainly been done by the steps we have set up a legislative framework so that the Bank Claims Management Company can start. And in this area, the second question, Minister, I will not comment much at that time, but unfortunately there was no support for the amendments we were making. We didn't want any stampede over these opposition data, but we were prepared to sit down and make some kind of expert amendment. From this point of view, I have been asked the question: already today, it has been said that the Constitutional Court has repeatedly challenged many of the things we have accepted in the National Assembly. Is the moment of retroactivity resolved in this case? It is said that we will not vote now by chance, for example. When we have a third reading, a law that will then, I don't know, be a group of those who don't have any interest in making this law come into force and would also apply to things that happened at the end of December, that would not be a problem of retroactivity in this case, and that we would be working again on a law that we would actually then do as colleague Jerovšek said — some kind of pier contribution. The following matters and questions relating to this law and also to the procedural part, around the amendment of this Article 8. I think it would be necessary to examine whether these two amendments are thus excluded. Or if they're not being ruled out, they're both being treated. Or else, to find out in this debate the will of others around this article that there will be no excuse, because we support our own, then in the third reading, eventually the provisions that are now specifically in the amendment and are supported by the minister, we corporateize them into a joint amendment and then extend those amendments. Since these provisions are not excluded and it is very normal for me to lay down laws that are contrary to the fact that they have mutually exclusived each other, and once we define ourselves to do so. I think that this material, with which it is very clear to note that it is also a major problem that in banks that are in these procedures, even for any reason, I will not speculate, decides that it would be better if some credit did not go into the public sphere where questions can be raised publicly both to bankers and to those who accepted the loan. I think that this area needs to be very clear. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are concerned about the information we receive from the media about what is going on in the bad bank, so next week, a meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, convened by our parliamentary group, in which we also support this law, will be necessary. We propose to convene as soon as this law is passed in the second reading. If it does not, it will probably not be, since there are so many amendments, it is possible to convene an extraordinary session at this meeting and to bring this law through, as we have already done in any important law in this country. In the field of transparency, people will know what is going on – today this is a key issue and in all other matters will certainly be one of the key orientations on these issues that are linked to these loans and on transfers of these claims. For what we hear is that there are speculations here, that part of these loans, I don't know, stay in banks or that after a reduction, after some claims have been evaluated, then someone has had the opportunity to continue for a few years, two years, to manage this valuable asset – this is unacceptable to us. We firmly believe that the measures we have taken to rehabilitate banks have been aimed at ensuring that companies act as employees; not at the fact that owners who have in a strange way wanted this great wealth or this large asset will be transferred to their personal account – this is not the right direction. These should be declassified, allowing companies to operate normally, to do business, to do employment, and to service banks. In addition, in view of the experience of 2012 when some parliamentary groups worked really hard and by delaying the Constitutional Court in relation to the bad bank, regarding the Slovenian state holding company, we prevented these matters from being handled earlier. Now we've had a year's delay, and there's still a dead run, especially at the holding company. I am interested in a purely business rhetorical question to which I do not expect an answer today. However, I would like to know who will give this law to the Constitutional Court and hold back the enforcement of this law. I think it will be very difficult for 30 Members to come together in this case. But the ambition of having this law fall on the hearts of our system, I think it's very large. I support the law. I'm also asking for those answers. I'm especially interested in retroactivity.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u53	Thank you. Dr. Gregor Virant has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr Bogovic, for supporting the law and for a reasonable debate and good questions. When that is the case, even if we do not agree on everything, it is a pleasure to work in politics. But when the debate is different, below the level, then I often wonder what I'm doing in this business. Thank you again for your support and for your good questions. With regard to Probank and Factor Bank, that is to say those of your proposals to extend transparency to loans from these banks that have received measures under the Banking Stability Act, so that transparency also extends to these loans, this is reflected in the coalition amendments. Bad loans that have been or will be transferred from Probank and Factor Bank to bad bank will also be as public as those transferred from state banks. Another time. About retroactivity. This law is not retroactive. Since its entry into force, it will apply from its entry into force, of course it will apply to all the documentation that companies have at their disposal. Part of this documentation can also refer to some business events from the past and we cannot call this retroactivity. Retroactivity would be if some of the old legal relations that have already arisen had been annulled or intervened in them. This question has once been raised. In the basic law of 2003, because it also established transparency for the public sector, public authorities, public institutions, public agencies, etc., even then some of the debtors to the information officer raised a dispute and said they did not want to disclose the data that had occurred before the law was enforced. And the information officer then said that they had to be disclosed, so that the law was applicable to all the documents they had at their disposal after the law was enforced, even if they were old documents. And this case stood before the court, and it didn't fall before any court. I don't think that's gonna happen in this case either. But I agree with you that the interests will be strong to bring this law down. I have a feeling that he will go through the National Assembly successfully through, which means that despite all the lobbying and partial interests, they are not strong enough to convince most of the members of the National Assembly. Of course, I do not rule out any interested parties going to challenge this before the Constitutional Court. With great probability, I am almost certain that this law does not have such a flaw to fall before the Constitutional Court that the matter will remain. With regard to the joint amendment of the Slovenian People's Party and the SDS, I say once again that I personally support it. This amendment did not grow on my diaphragm, so I cannot talk here about whether the coalition supports me or not, because I did not make this proposal. You made that suggestion. I am in favour of each proposal of the opposition being given substantive consideration so as not to be rejected. This also applies to this proposal, and it seems to me personally to be basically good; perhaps technically, it could still be corrected, but that is why we have time in the third reading. That is why I would recommend to the coalition, but I cannot order it to support this amendment at this stage unless it remains in this explanation that the amendment of the coalition becomes irrelevant. I don't think he's becoming irrelevant, but I'll leave that to the President of the National Assembly. That's why we have him running the sessions and explaining these things. Nobody at work had any evil intentions or anything like that. I don't believe in this conspiracy theory. If, for example, we cannot vote both amendments, then I suggest that we sit down before the third hearing – those who want to work constructively, namely Mr Bogovic, the Slovenian People's Party together with the coalition – and prepare this amendment to the best of our ability, so that it will be technically okay, that it will be professionally good and that it will achieve what you want and what I agree with. This is said to include those D and E credits that remain in banks and are not transferred to a bad bank to be disclosed. It's the same information as it's being disclosed for those loans that will be transferred. Will "public" also refer to contracts with natural persons? The answer is yes. Are we adopting this law too late? It would have been better if we'd accepted it sooner. It'd be better if you had 20 years if you wanted. It would probably be a lot different in Slovenia today if the operation of state-owned companies had been transparent before. But it's better late than never. Now we have a nice opportunity for this composition of the National Assembly, a little dramatically, to record in history that it has finally opened up, made transparent operations of state-owned enterprises. This was done for the public sector in 2003. That was a big step forward. The current minister, Paula Gantar, was the proponent of this project, and even then there were countless objections, a thousand reasons against what would go wrong, the state administration would collapse, hard words would fall. Today, after more than 10 years, we see that this was a very good move and that this transparency has improved the functioning of the public sector. And if we now achieve something similar for this part of the economy, which is under state influence, I think we will do a big and important thing. But I do not imagine that this will solve all our problems; to understand each other, we will not solve them. Nor do I think that all donor and sponsoring, advisory and legal contracts are in themselves wrong or even criminal. No, but from case to case, each must be publicly available, the director or administration must be able to explain at any moment why this business was concluded, why the transaction was concluded, why something was purchased at such or other price. As the Minister must explain, as the Director of an administrative body must explain, or, after all, the National Assembly and each parliamentary group will have to do so in state-owned enterprises. I think I answered all the questions. I also expect an explanation from the President and the Secretary-General himself. I'm not gonna paralyze anything they say, so be it. If the amendment is incompatible, it is likely that the coalition will support the coalition and then we will try to resolve the matter together with the opposition by the third hearing. However, if both can be supported, I would certainly also recommend to the coalition that it support this, as well as to Members and Members of the National Gazette, that it should be recommended, but they always vote as they think it is right. Well, I'm just gonna stop here.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u55	Thank you. I would only warn the Minister when he states that Members will submit to the lobby, that it is necessary to add that if this is happening, then Members must also [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] But they won't. [[…]] However, in the event of an accident, it would be right to point out in any case that, if they encounter lobbyists, they also duly declare this in accordance with the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. As to how we are going to vote, or whether an amendment is irrelevant or if the first one is adopted, the second one will be irrelevant, I think it is correct to inform you of this at the stage of the vote. We are now discussing amendments; what will be the voting process, and we will notify you in the voting phase. Mr Jerko Čehovin has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u56	Thank you, President. It was interesting to hear individual debates in Parliament because I felt like we were not all talking about the same law, as if we had 2 different laws, with different emphasiss. Here again, let me tell you what the main purpose of this law is. According to the current law adopted in 2003, this is best known by those Members who boast that they have been in this Parliament for so long, that they have also discussed and adopted this law, they have been committed to accessing information of a public nature by public authorities, municipalities and other persons of public law. The new proposal also extends to companies and other legal entities owned by the State and the municipalities. That's the point now. And some of the debates are that those who have proposed this enlargement have actually shuddered into the axis of the nest or are obviously going to debate in terms of the words "kill the massenger". The one who changes is guilty, or in other words, the former pyromen are suddenly becoming firefighters and they tell us that we have not accepted this, which we should have already accepted. Even if some Members were in opposition at the time this law was passed, they could, once they had their own government, immediately propose amendments and amendments to the law and they could have more transparency. I therefore find such discussions, forgive the expression, perverse, especially when it comes to people, Members or others expressing their opinion publicly on the marriage text in the second reading. It is still very open and I hope that we will reach some consensus in this regard. It's this consensus. At least in the debate so far, and even on the parental committee, I have not observed any major objections to the adoption of this law, so I am disturbed by such strong political debates as was afforded by my colleague Jerovšek, because these are not debates aimed at specific Article 8 but rather by "battle" projecting my psychologically, I will say, the configuration of other Members. I advise him, if he has missed his profession, to ask about Poland or even in Styria, they probably have a facility where they need a psychiatrist and can produce psychological profiles of other people; in particular, what they think and what they don't think. To me, the dishonesty towards Mr Jerovska has not so far been revealed by anyone, and I do not allow anyone to do so, especially to the younger ones. Next thing. The amendment tabled in Article 8 completely amends this Article, which becomes a new Article 6a, which sets out the public data of business entities; whereas Article 5 of the amended proposal sets out which information constitutes information of a public nature; and in the case of persons under dominant influence, that Article specifies those information of a public nature, irrespective of the limitations set out in Article 6 of the applicable law. Article 6 of the old law thus provides when an authority rejects access to information of a public nature in the case of confidential information, business secrecy, personal data; the new Article 6a specifies which data are public, regardless of these limitations. Such public information shall be defined: information on the type of business, the contractual partner, namely, the legal person — name or company, seat, business address, legal person’s account; and for a natural person — personal name and place of residence, contract value, amount of individual payments, date of duration of the transaction and the same data from the annex to the contract. Of course, the law also provides for exceptions, since the debtors may refuse access to these and business data on business if they prove that disclosure would be more detrimental to their competitive position on the market; unless these data refer to — should not be rejected — legal transactions involving donors, sponsors, consultants, authors and other intellectual services or other legal transactions. This is also my answer to Mr Vogrin, who asked in this respect. The new Article 6a provides that in the case where a business entity is subject to the dominant influence of public law persons, a bank receiving measures under the law governing the measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks, the following information is freely available of a public nature, which is also directly linked to the loans of non-payers, as risk items, which are kept as weaknesses in the balance sheet and which have been transferred from such a bank to the DUTB for each individual credit. This is from contracts concluded after transactions: type and advantage of business, creditor, borrower, firm, establishment of legal entity, date of conclusion of the contract and decisions of the authority responsible for the approval of the transaction, the authority which approved the transaction and the members of the body and members of the management board and members of the supervisory board of the bank at the time of approval of the loan, namely for the natural person — personal name and position or name of the job. From the insurance document: type and subject to insurance; from the acquisition contract between the bank and the DUTB: the firm and the seat of the bank and the non-payer and the final gross exposure to the individual defaulter on the day of transfer to the bad bank. The amendment also adds the provision that the term credits of non-payments held as losses in the balance sheet of the bank referred to in the preceding paragraph shall mean credits which are in accordance with the decision of the Bank of Slovenia – which governs the assessment of losses arising from the credit risk of banks and savings banks and which are issued under the law governing banking – classified as group D or E. My personal view of what the Minister had previously proposed and defined itself to this article. I personally believe that banks that are predominantly public-owned or where the dominant public influence is, are obliged to disclose all the data. This also applies to other economic operators. It is true, however, that for other loans, especially those transferred from private banks, he is also committed to providing data in B. And here I have my own concerns, which is where it spreads this matter, not because of it. I believe from practice and in particular from the experience I have had in the 26 years of running the largest companies that loans that are alive, which are being repaid, even if the company is classified as a lower credit class, that it cannot become a subject of public interest as long as the loans are being paid on a regular basis. In my interview with Radio Ljubljana today, when it was understood, as was understood by some when I said that we cannot simply support all the military interests that occur in this country and also in the National Assembly. Those credits that are regularly and properly paid, even if the firm is classified in terms of creditworthiness in a lower rating class, cannot become subject to public treatment as long as these credits are paid on a regular basis. I draw attention here to the fact that if we extend these matters to private banks as well – for the state, there is no problem where it has a dominant public influence – that we may be able to go to deposits and credit transactions abroad and actually destroy our banking system to the end. Therefore, those who have experience or have a vision of how to approach the rehabilitation of this banking system must be well aware of the responsibilities we all have together when we adopt such laws. At least what this country would need now is to destroy our economy and our banks to the end. There are still such indications; you know there is no problem carrying your money or moving your money across the border. Therefore, we cannot succumb to a mass hysteria, but it is necessary to clearly define the responsibility that has been shown in transferring bad claims to the so-called bad bank. And there's no limit. And here you are, and we have a great degree of agreement. Otherwise, I don't want to embalm in this direction. Minister, you also know a stable way of coalition coordination. If you propose what you have proposed, we will get together and we will call for coordination where we will discuss this proposal if we are legally clear of what has already been said today – or whether this article is denied by the adoption of this amendment, which has been tabled by SDS and SLS. I would also say that, once again, let us stress that this Article 8 is crucial, as it has already been said, that it is indeed a revolutionary novelty in terms of access to information of a public nature. I repeat, someone else could have accepted this before. But I must say that I accept full responsibility for the last 11 months of operation, which we have a government and this coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Fox, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u58	Thank you. Procedural. Mr Jerko Čehovin finally spoke of full responsibility for his words. Excuse me, Vice President, this isn't about you, it's about the President of the National Assembly. When Mr Čehovin spoke about the psychological configuration of his colleague Jerovška, about how he missed his profession and sent him to a psychiatric institution – in short, as a member of the first term, he allowed himself to be harassed by a Member who was apparently trusted by the people in his constituency. I would expect from the President of the National Assembly that in some manner to which he refers – that is, that the same rules apply both to the left and the right of this Parliamentary Chamber – to either stop the Member at that time or remind him to pay little attention to his words. However, it is probably too much for the President of the National Assembly to expect such a Member to make excuses for his words. My procedural proposal is that, on the next occasion, the President of the National Assembly will stick to the Rules of Procedure and stop the debater. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Lisec, for the procedural proposal. You have a replica, Mr. Jerovšek, of Mr. Chehovin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u60	Mr Čehovin mentioned me intensely, and he also sent me in accordance with what my colleague said, he was insulting. But let's just leave it alone. I've had a lot of experiences, and I'm willing to do that. However, that he has attacked that there should be no political implications and observations in Parliament, if that is unacceptable, I must oppose that. In the beginning, I also commended this law and this article. Although the Minister praised only the Slovenian People's Party, I support it. But I'm watching and I'm gonna see, and I'm gonna say it out loud. The broader context of attempts to conceal information of a public nature that is taking place this month in connection with the Archives Act regarding the disclosure of these murders and crimes by the former State Security Service. But not in 45, but in the '70s, '80s. And also what is kind of under the carpet in this marriage, which the minister also pointed out is that there are strange procedures in the background that try to prevent this law from being enforced. The Minister himself said he expected pressure on the Constitutional Court. I, too, and Mr Bogovic, are interested in who will put this to the Constitutional Court; it has now become a public secret, so to speak, that this will happen. Now to Mr. Chehovin. If you're offended by my deliberations, that's your business. You know, I have been elected five times for this profession by the electorate, so I find it unworthy that you are driving me out of Parliament. These are some old manners. At that time, 25 MEPs at the CK decided that they had to come from the current assembly. And you support such parliamentaryism. I expected you to be in the interest of transparency, which you were talking about to represent here, to say that you are also for our amendment, which is important for transparency. I didn't see that coming. And I hope that, on behalf of transparency, you will not say what you said in the end that you do not allow younger ones to discuss all the problems. I'm not much younger, but I'm also younger in this category. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u61	Three minutes, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u62	With this you wanted to shut your mouth to all the Members who are younger than you. You are almost taking the discretionary right that only you will be able to discuss in Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Since the replication of the replica is not possible, Mr Čehovin will take advantage of the procedural proposal. Mr. Chekovin, we'll be surprised. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u64	Please, don't make any inappropriate remarks. I propose that for so long the meeting of the National Assembly be suspended, that a magnetic chart of what I have said be obtained, and that it be delivered to Mr Lisc and Mr Jerovsk.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u65	Mr. Chehovin, we will not interrupt the National Assembly meeting for the production of a magnetogram. However, it may be that when you have time to look wherever you want it, it can also reproduce, but we will continue the meeting. It's mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the Minister with co-workers and all her colleagues and colleagues! 10 years ago we first presented information of a public nature in the law and, in my opinion, 10 years too late. Today, we are adopting a novelty with which we are significantly expanding to entities that will be committed to public information, even in my opinion, 10 years too late. I therefore regret that we are so stuck in Article 8. For me, the novel is revolutionary, so I don't think it takes a hard word to fall both on one side and on the other. If I believe or don't want to speculate on how the professional services have been mistaken or not, but if we say that the amendments, as they claim, are mutually exclusive, probably due to some rules of nomotechnics, then I will support the amendment of the coalition alone at this stage. I believe that by the third reading we will find a common solution to improve this article. Let us not forget that this novel has been on parliamentary benches for quite some time now, that we have improved or supplemented it with amendments to the committee, that we are doing this today, and that we will have this opportunity in our third reading. I think it's too important for us to be left and right here. And you have to admit, I don't think there's any law that Minister Virant would have brought to Parliament in the last period, where he wouldn't have called or listened to the opposition in any proposal, or that he wouldn't have appealed to us to support any of your amendments. I think that such practices should also be met by other ministers and ministers, or all governments, former and also transitional. When accompanying me personally, the following is particularly crucial or I support the following philosophy: if it is the euro of taxpayer money, it must be public and transparent; indeed, exceptions must be made in exceptional cases and clearly defined. Of course, as a member of the National Gazette, I always like to hear the opposite arguments from one side or the other. I hope I won't and I don't mean to offend any of this, but when I listen carefully and follow your discussions in this debate, as far as information of a public character is concerned, I would like to sum it up in the following sentence: The lions are too fond of looking for bells in this matter, the right ones are too eager to look for companies like Grep. In the Civil Gazette, we say the following: all the information that has contributed to the depletion of public, state or municipal companies must be highlighted and made public; and also those that have contributed to the exhaustion of the banking system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Pavlišič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. A respected minister with a co-worker, a respected colleague and colleagues! A nice word finds a nice place, is a nice Slovenian proverb. I think we're all too aware of him in the National Assembly. Mr Jerovšek, if anyone is working against this law, I think it is especially you. Because in the coalition, this law, I firmly believe, has very strong support. We know that they had major comments on this law, mainly at the Chamber of Commerce, because they were disturbed by the fact that some kind of business secret could be disclosed; but, as far as I know, the latest changes have all been made. The Chamber of Commerce supports such a dictatorship as is currently enshrined in these amendments, which we will undoubtedly accept. On the committee itself, we had a debate on Jerovsk's circles to mine the adoption of this law. And today we're talking about it again. This is not about the circles in which Mr Jerovšek would be actively involved, so that there will be no mistake. This is about the circles that Mr Jerovšek has pointed to, and I sincerely believe that he himself is not involved in. But they were called that. I'm afraid he's playing some last maneuver that could have been used to prevent this marriage. The point is that if we support this, it is true in this case, Mr Jerovšek, that this may be unacceptable then for the other members of the coalition. It's kind of the last maneuver, at least that's what it looks like. I believe that colleagues and colleagues in the coalition prefer the content to these emotional responses that this could trigger. It is said that we will actually focus on the content and the purpose of this law is certainly good and is good for citizens and citizens of Slovenia. I believe we will be united here to support all this law that we have long needed. Another proverb would mention why it snows. It's snowing to make the beasts leave their tracks. This law is this snow, and we will see which beasts will leave their mark when they make a possible constitutional assessment or who will oppose this law before that. Then we will see who is the one who opposes this information. This is also the answer to the question raised earlier – who lobbies, who opposes, who will put in a constitutional opinion. We'll see who the beast will leave behind in this marriage. As with every law, we weigh different aspects of the law. In this case, we weigh the benefits of information and disclosure to the public; and, on the other hand, the possible consequences of the market position of individual companies, which will also be bound by this disclosure law. And here I weigh the above. The position of the National Gazette in this regard is quite clear. We want as few businesses as possible to be subject to this law, because this will show that we have the right economic structure, but we cannot do this overnight. Until then, these matters need to be properly regulated and the current law's dictated accordingly. The company has the opportunity to keep certain information it considers to be a business secret in a way that it does not. Then, by means of an information officer and by extreme force, the court shall determine whether or not it is so. It's not like that. There was also a speech and a lot of connection to privatisation that would largely solve this problem. It is not said that all companies need to be sold, but we must be aware that we do not yet have a strategy for managing these companies in Slovenia, so that we do not know whether these companies work well, whether they work poorly, or whether they work for the benefit of someone – and we are not citizens and citizens. It is therefore important that we adopt this law as soon as possible and that we adopt such a law as is proposed to put an end to these doubts or to put an end to such acts. The technical details of this particular article are, however, what has already been mentioned, that after the amendments are reviewed, the amendment of the opposition and the amendment of the coalition is excluded. If one is adopted, the other cannot be accepted. In view of the content contained in these articles, I do not agree with this and therefore I really urge that this be further verified. Whether this is ruled out or not, this condition, which we will receive in the third reading, is still being remedied, is said to take one matter and then, in the third reading, we will extend it to another amendment. I will definitely support both of you in this case. Even if we accept the SDS amendment, then the amendment of the coalition, if really excluded, can be accepted in the next reading. "The sweaty way" of one or the other is not essential if the purposes of everyone here are actually revealed and positive. I apologize a little here because my debate was not very substantive, but it was not substantive for the following reason. Apparently, support for this law is one thing. We have no substantive concerns, we do not have major substantive concerns in the National Assembly, which means that we are well-coordinated. From this point of view, there is no longer much need for substantive debate. It's more about a variety of tactical maneuvers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Pavlishich. Mr. Jerovšek, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Even though my colleague Pavlišič and I have been getting along with him many times, I also acknowledge that he has repeatedly voted on his conscience not to vote on his orders; this time he was put to the test. He was very impressed by the fact that in his debate, he said in my account one distinctly untruth, which was actually an attempt at discreditation. You said if anyone was working against this law, it was you. I said once again in the transitional debate that I support the law and also support the government amendment; in the beginning, in my first debate, too. I don't know what he'd do with it? What do you want me to do? But then you explained that the circles of Jerovsk are those circles that I was talking about, that have ripped out our banks and the different circles that are responsible for the situation. You mentioned them as Jerovsk's circles, although then you explained that I do not think that I am a member of these circles, but it was in terms of the discreditation of Jerovsk. You'll admit that. Even though you have come to Parliament a little later, you already know which circles Jerovšek supports and which circles he fights with all his might, with all his parliamentary power. Clearly, today's debate on the context of concealment, attempts to conceal information, when I spoke of your minister being prevented even in this law until the final realization, you did not like it. I see Mr Chehovin's violent reaction when I just mentioned that in the morning reports I heard the reservations he made as chairman of the committee. And when he spoke later about transparency, I expected him to explain in the name of transparency what reservations they had. Which one? It wasn't explained. But I heard the information on the radio this morning. Obviously, by linking all of this, I hit the nail that you had to give the concession to Positive Slovenia, obviously, and to the other parties under two other laws – in the archives and in the debates on the Commission for Petitions. I doubt that your Member Kurnjek, given his education because he had ethics, would certainly have voted in favour of certain conclusions which are totally non-civilisational. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. Mr. Kurnjek, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u72	Thank you, Vice President. I would like you to warn Mr Jerovsk, for the first time, that today is not the Commission's theme for petitions and human rights. Secondly, Member Kurnjek shall vote in accordance with the content of this sitting, other or any other meeting. There I voted in accordance with the content of that meeting and my education has nothing to do with it. Please inform the Member that the content of the sitting is different today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u73	The content of the meeting is very broad today. It is true, however, that we are talking about information of a public nature and it is right to stick to the subject. Anybody else want to discuss this? Opening login option. Mr. Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u74	Thank you. One more nice hello for me. I think the law is right. Like the predecessors said, it's probably a few years too late, but it's not up to me to blame one government or another. In short, the course of law is absolutely correct, but also the course of the Titanic was correct, and what happened happened happened. Minister, you said this law was a revolution. Yeah, but you know, we got more anecdotes. One is that the revolution devours its own children; one is that the revolution sometimes turns from the right path; or the revolution becomes a toothless tiger. Minister, I hope this revolution goes its own way. Today we are talking about how we will share, when we, publicly, will be sponsors, donors and others, how we will share this – the main issue of this law or this debate was how we will create it; but perhaps another time. About our amendment. Since we want free access to information to include so-called bad loans, i.e. group D and E, I believe that we will coordinate as soon as possible. Even if we support all of us together today, first of all, our amendment and then it will not be supported, then the amendment of the coalition; I suggest that we do not divide ourselves again into the left, right and middle, to prepare for the third reading, together with colleagues from the Slovenian People's Party, the same amendment; coalition groups prepare the same – and then we can all vote forever and then there will never be any problem that we will not share again, rather than unite in the one we all seem to agree on. Minister, one question. When I look at the report of the parent working body at Article 8, obviously infamous, and when I read paragraph 3 of this Article, "to allow access if the public interest in disclosure is stronger than the public interest or interest of others in restricting access". And when I look at the opposition's amendment, I must say that I did not follow these provisions or this text. It seems very important to me that the public interest in disclosure is stronger than the public interest, the interest of others in restricting access. You know, there's always the devil in the details. I wonder if this has been deliberately lost or hidden in some other provision. If it's hidden in other provisions, I apologize and I'll be very pleased with your explanations. It seems to me that this is a very important issue, particularly with regard to bad loans. There is a lot of talk about the Slovenian State Holding Act and it seems to me that if we really want to open up what we are pursuing to be as transparent and as public as possible, I think the provision of this article or this chapter is very important. Let the disclosure be for everyone. In the amendment and also in the existing article, it seems very important to me, which we may not have talked about very much, and this is to refuse access to basic data on the legal transactions concluded under paragraph 1 of this Article if companies prove that disclosure would be more detrimental to their competitive situation on the market. We all know that we are members of the European Union. However, some of our state-owned companies, although they may be a smaller player in this market, may be valuable if they remain in a black box or Pandora’s box and do not show because we are pursuing public interest. How now we will all be public and transparent, and with this we do great damage to our companies in foreign markets. In short, this provision seems really very important to me. We regret, however, that we have not found any other doctrine, that businesses must prove or demonstrate their interest in protecting them from the cruel international market, particularly the economic and financial market. For starters, two more comparisons. I told the Minister when he visited our parliamentary group and I warned him that I was very afraid that this law would have a bad time, namely financing various sports, cultural and other content. If we come from practice, I can mention at least 3 Slovenian events from the sports field: jumping in Planica, men skiing in Kranjska Gora and women skiing in Maribor, where different state companies are competing, who will write their company more extensively. But I am afraid that when this whole sphere opens up in the spirit of some transparency and the public, a number of directors of a state-owned company will ask why they are sponsoring a sports club – and I will focus on sports clubs. For example, it could be a state-owned company originating in a local area. For example, a state-owned company from Primorska will be asked why a local football club will be given 5,000 euros and a local handball club will be given 10,000 euros. With these clubs fighting each other, who got more and why they got more, whether they were political pressures or really just for the sake of achieving the best sports results, some reasonable director of such a company will probably ask why I was even sponsoring – so that I was on the ground and different factors within different spheres arguing about why I gave more or less to someone. And it'll be the easiest way to make order in this area by closing the tentacles and saying why the amount, for example. Half a million or as much as the individual state-owned undertaking has an amount for the so-called representative, why do not these assets remain in the company. If these funds remain in the company, on the other hand, we can be aware that in these difficult times, especially in the field of sport and probably in the field of culture, we will be able to strike a big blow to Slovenian sport. In this area, I do not think the law will bring as much positive as it will bring in all other areas. And I really hope that if this happens, we will be the National Assembly, the government, or all those who care that the sports achievements of Slovenian athletes persist and are becoming ever better at finding some mechanisms to reward Slovenian sport. Otherwise, I fully agree that sponsorship and donor transactions must also be public. I have cases of my own, and probably many others, when the various mayors have, in addition to all the resources they distribute through public calls, some of their budgets, from which they share these amounts — as I always say — into beautiful eyes. When the president of a sports company comes, who doesn't like the mayor, the mayor says he doesn't have any money; when he comes, say, the president of a cultural society with which they are party-related, or the same thinking February, or they have some other connection, there's no problem getting 500 or 1,000 euros from the local area. Of course, we know that in state-owned companies we are talking about much higher amounts. As I say, I support this transparency, but I am really afraid that rational directors of state-owned enterprises will decide on extremes and will say, see why I'm opening this box at all, when it's so negative, there might even be some kind of witch hunt, where some director of a state-owned enterprise will be nailed to the cross because he knows someone who is the president of a society and he has given him a little something from his desk. You know, the media can make a big story out of this that hurts as many sports, cultural and other entities as it does state companies. On the other hand, I strongly support that when this is all public, we will finally be able to see who are the ones who sponsor our Slovenian media scene from behind or from the front. We'll see how many talks there are about who are the real media, who are our media, who are your media, etc. We will really see how many of these state-owned companies, i.e. from taxpayers' money, fly funds — due to such or other pressures — into different media houses just to work or to create policies past the National Assembly and even past the government. The Minister, as regards the amendment – which is correct and which is not correct, which we will support – we will coordinate as soon as possible. I will support both amendments myself, I will also support the law; but I have a first term in this mandate, but it is a bad experience between theory and practice, or with what we call "the devil of details". I really hope that the shortcomings of this law will be detected somewhere, that we will all find the right solutions together, that the negative effects of this law will be remedied so that they will also have positive effects. In short, support for the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. Fox. Dr. Virant has made a statement, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u76	We still had this debate in coordinating the Sponsorship and Donorship Act. Of course, it is nice and commendable if the funds are earmarked for sport and culture. These are activities that cannot function according to pure market principles. But the problem is that if or because these things are financed imprudently — domestically, without predetermined criteria, with beautiful eyes, with relationships, with knowledge, etc. If all the money distributed by state-owned companies were collected among cultural and sports companies and distributed to all under the same conditions through some transparent criteria, this would be significantly more fair than if one club received a million, say, from a company that is state-wide, all-Slovenian; perhaps another 10, 15 clubs that would be satisfied with 15 or 20 thousand euros. We can't approve of this domestic money sharing. And these things, I'm sure you'll see a lot more. I wonder, for example, whether a company that owns 100% of the public service, which is a monopolist, really needs expensive paid ads, marketing in the media – and this in the media, where a second of advertising space costs a lot. I'm specifically talking about Dars. Why does Dars have to order TV commercials? We don't have a choice if we're gonna take his highways or some other highway. It's just a waste of money out the window. Do we have enough money in this country to throw it out the window? I'd rather spend a hundred times each euro on the E.R. or on these bridges that we're looking at and hitting in front of our eyes than to throw it out the window like this. And that's why I'm saying that with this law, we're sure to stop a lot of money throwing a shovel through the window. Most of this is happening within the legal framework. There is no crime, no illegality, but there are clear criteria and clear rules, so it's done domestically. And the more these things are public, the more journalists see this, the more the public sees it, the greater the pressure on SDH and the control councils to make order here and lay down some rules of the game, which I can say have been established in the narrow public sector over the years. There's some order here. Far from being perfect, but some order is! In this part of the economy, which is under state influence, there is still a lot of logic in the wild west.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Marian Pojbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. First of all, I would like to make it very clear that I myself and our Slovenian Democratic Party Group have not opposed any proposal, a smart and quality proposal brought by this government to the National Assembly and which has been in favour and for the benefit of our citizens and citizens. On many occasions, however, we – the opposition and the Slovenian Democratic Party – are not receiving this from the coalition. Today is once again a great opportunity for us to see whether the coalition really wants to accept or not. propose the best solutions or best proposals for marriage, in which we have now proposed an amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party. I believe that this amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party will also be supported by the coalition. I'm just gonna read it for a while. The amendment states: free public information shall also become information of business entities referred to in Article 1a of this Law directly related to credits classified under international banking standards as group D and E – late payment obligations over 90 days and not transferred to a bad bank. These amendments were proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Slovenian People's Party. I am sure that this amendment improves the proposal for a proposed law. That is also what Minister Virant said. And at least, what I expect is that at least the party from which the Minister comes and whose President is also, this amendment will be supported. If that happens, then there's no problem this amendment wouldn't go through. And today we will see what her president and her minister have to say in this parliamentary group. And is it really the coalition’s interest to adopt the best laws — laws that try to eliminate all doubts? And I think that the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Slovenian People's Party solves a number of problems that are not clear in this law. And I ask you kindly, and I now call on the Group of the National Gazette and their President Virant, who, as a member of the government, has proposed to harmonise and agree once. If you are not able to agree alone with your President in any party, what you are going to propose in Parliament, the Minister and your President speak one thing. On the other hand, you Members speak differently, except for some of the individuals in your parliamentary group. And my goal is, my interest is to adopt in this House absolutely the best solutions, the best laws that go, which are the closest written down by our citizens and citizens and our people. And now we all have a chance to show together that our people mean something to us. And the solutions that we propose in this law to go in the right way, that there are no kindergartens in the back or some interests. If we are already proposing a suitable law, let us make it better if this is possible in the parliamentary procedure. And today this opportunity is before all the parties in this House. I will not understand, indeed I will not understand that the amendment that we have proposed today will not be supported by any of the Members of this Parliament. For that, it is indeed a question of the purpose of which he sits in this House. I say this very frankly, openly and openly to the Slovenian public because this amendment has not been written on the skin of any group of Members, none. Not the left, the red, the green, the yellow, the black, I don't know which, but it's actually written on the skin of our citizens and citizens to learn the real truth for which they have all the rights. They pay for it all, our people pay for it. And please, I expect the coalition to support this amendment by the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Slovenian People's Party today at this meeting. If this does not happen, I say in advance that it will be very easy to tell Slovenian citizens and citizens, with what interest a particular parliamentary group and Members are sitting in Parliament. I hope that doesn't happen. I sincerely and sincerely hope that you have so much responsibility for your people that you will do so today and this amendment will support and make the marriage better than you have proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Pojbich. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. Mr. Jerovšek, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u80	Thank you very much. There's just something I'd like to point out. This Article and Article 12 are also linked to the amendment of the coalition parties to Article 29, where the second indent refers to the time-limits for entry into force. These indents referred to in this Article shall enter into force in accordance with the amendment to Article 29 within 3 months. However, Article 12 indents shall enter into force in 6 months. And that's what you're giving a hand to clean up what's uncomfortable for the coalition. For these circles, which I am talking about and which Mr Pavlisič wrongly called, the Jerovšk circles, are anti-Jerovsk circles. I want an answer to why you decided to rule on the law on key matters. That's outrageous! We have a problem. Today, on the front of the newspaper, Delo writes that Slovenia has no serious intentions to fight corruption. We should also fight the coalition, that's what it is. But he has no serious intention of fighting corruption. And this is a great title on the front page – the findings of the European Union. And the amendment to Article 29 is covert, but it refers to this amendment as a decree of this law on key matters. You're not saying you're in charge of disclosing this information. It'll all be done so nothing will happen. It is designed to say a lot of things about what you will do, and then all will be protected — those who have robbed Slovenia; and it is an unacceptable amendment to Article 29. You're delaying the adoption of the law. Then why are we taking him in today? Why do we accept it today if you want to postpone it? The key issues of this law. Also, the president – the president withdrew with the secretary-general. This remark on the immateriality or link-to-exclusion of these two amendments to Article 8, as I have already said twice before, should be withdrawn from the vote; not as the President has said. Now it must be withdrawn because it is not the same matter and is absolutely unjustifiable. What the services have allowed, perhaps the secretary-general, to find here a conflict between the two articles when it comes to completely different things. He's talking about loans that aren't transferred to a bad bank, and they're talking about bad banks, bad loans. This needs to be withdrawn immediately, and the one who apologized to the Assembly of State should be framed, for we are the ones who will decide whether he is in conflict. Even if two amendments were adopted in the second reading, which would be in conflict with each other, there is nothing wrong with the Members making such a decision. We can also fix it at the third reading, not for officials to determine what we can accept and what we cannot accept. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. I'd like to comment on your last initiative first. I agree with you that this is not a conflict, but I cannot withdraw this comment from the professional services right now. And I also agree that if there was any further doubt, the Legislative and Legal Service could deliver an opinion at the next stage of the hearing. Now we continue the debate. The Secretary of State has the floor, mag. Renata Zatler.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. One brief explanation in relation to the subject at stake. In particular, I would like to point out that when this law is implemented, the most important public information will be the data on the debtors or poor loans transferred to the bad bank or to the DUTB. This means – key information on who these non-payers are, or those poor loans, debtors and gross exposures, and the banks that approved these loans. These key data will be made public as soon as it enters into force. All the other transitional provisions are efficacious; one is linked to the Supervisor, as this programme will have to be completed and the other is linked to a three-month period on other data on these loans for which the transfer has already been envisaged. It's just that the data is a little bit more accurate and detailed. They are expected to be accurately defined by this bad bank, together with the Bank of Slovenia. A specific act will also be published in what way all this information should then be published more precisely. But in three months at the latest. However, it should be pointed out that, physically, all these bad loans do not yet have a bad bank. In fact, at this point, I could not publish them in this way as prescribed by this proposal of the law. However, a three-month transitional period is needed in which this will be determined a little more precisely. But once again, when this law is in force, the key data will be the public data I listed earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Mr. Jerovšek, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u84	Thank you very much. I cannot agree with what the Secretary of State has said. It is a matter of deposing essential data and in today's Work they have even found that a coalition of state companies protects against the Supervisor, as you yourself said. And already what's the Supervisor, some things are available, they'll be closed. There is no need for us to adopt a law to postpone this. It makes sense that they won't be able to give everyone in the night. Let them be under pressure to give, not to clean up banks and everywhere and to be dedicated, they will be removed from the documentation. We know how you're in power and how this financial oligarchy works, who it can bribe. And that's exactly why it's done to take the time to hide from the public everything that matters. And that's unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. We're at Article 8 and the amendments. Anybody else want to discuss this? If not, I conclude the debate on this Article. Proceed with Article 9. I am putting to the debate Article 9 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. We continue with the debate on Article 12 and the amendment of the coalition is also tabled in Article 12. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. We continue with Article 13. Again, who wants to discuss the amendment of the coalition? No, no, no. Let's move on to Article 14. Anybody want to talk? The amendment of the coalition. We continue with Article 15, the amendment of the coalition. No one wants to discuss it. The amendment of the coalition to Article 17. We also conclude this article. Proceed with Article 21. This time there is an amendment tabled by the New Slovenia Group. Mr. Horvath wants to discuss it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State, the Minister who has been pleased to join us, has just rejoined us. Dear colleagues and colleagues! On behalf of the New Slovenia Christian Democrats, I would like to inform the Minister that we truly wish to inform him that his words on the revolutionaryity of this law and also the words in this law would become flesh. This law could be an example of a law that could be made available to the Slovenian public, including to the National Assembly, to be graphically presented, so that people can see in detail what they can see in relation to bad credits, in relation to advisory contracts with state-owned companies, etc., at what time intervals these documents will be produced and so on. And as the last "slide" in this graphic presentation, I imagine long procession of people, so far without even the names and surnames that rummage in prison. Get in jail! Dear colleagues and colleagues, if we want this law and in general, if we just want to see what is happening in state-owned companies and even in banks, then this will only have one effect. This is a deterioration of vision, because we will all stare at this information of a public character, but there will be no effects. People tell us, take those who took away from us. And that, Minister Gregor Virant, is surely aware of. Take the ones that took us! In this law, we see one of the tools to find the villains who stole our country and, of course, to embezzle them, to punish them. As a matter of fact, the procession has to go to prison. In a sense, I could say that this law would not actually be necessary if all the laws we have so far were consistently respected. Maybe there's more to our amendment to Article 26. Because this amendment to Article 21 only speaks of how to punish those who do not respect legal provisions. In the third paragraph of Article 39, a new fourth indent is added, which states that 800 euros will punish those responsible if, within the time limit referred to in Article 26, we think of a new Article 26 here, bearing in mind that our amendment, which I will talk about later, does not provide the required information of a public nature on the world web. I conclude here and ask everyone here to support this amendment of New Slovenia as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u87	Thank you very much. There's a minister's word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u88	Thank you. This amendment would be supportive. We will perform another coalition coordination this afternoon, where we will agree on which amendments the opposition are such that they have convinced us and that they will also receive coalition support. One of them is Article 8 if it is possible to support it without bringing down the coalition. And the other one's yours by 21. That's okay. However, what you have said would add to the fact that the transparency that we are introducing will not only have an effect to reveal things behind – even this. Transparency will also have a very strong preventive effect. In what way? All managers in state-owned companies, majority state-owned property will be aware at any moment that any business they conclude can be made available to the public and will have to stand behind such a business. Why did they buy something at such a price? Why they might have chosen a more expensive contractor. Why they gave, I don't know, 30,000 Euros of sponsorship to this and this. Why they ordered such money and money on television, even though they are pure monopolies and have no competition. Prevention is also very important. It is true, however, that something of interest to law enforcement authorities may also be revealed. And as you know, the detection and investigation of economic crime and corruption is strengthening, and it is strengthening in concrete terms. There are already processes in progress in the Police to employ an additional 75 people, something from the outside, something with internal transfers, but the economic crime and corruption segment will be strengthened by 75 new experts, criminals and forensics. Something at the NPU, something on the police department. This wave, which I must say, has now been successfully ridden by the police, has to move forward in the pursuit of economic crime and corruption. And this climate that was created in the police has to be exploited. They have no fear, no fear, they work full steam — just as they should. Today, there has been repeated mention of fear or skepticism that is present in every marriage. The gap between the normative and the real, what the law says and what it does in practice. I always share that concern. We must ensure that the law is adopted and implemented properly in practice. I must say that the practice of the law on access to information of a public nature so far has been good, that the law has in fact changed a great deal – and to a great extent thanks to the information officer. Also, these particulars, which are now in a position that has been very vehemently and resolutely taken up for transparency and with its decisions, have carefully opened up the matters that the public sector institutions wanted to cover up – wisely, I say. Where there are legitimate reasons not to disclose something because it would harm the State by revealing some personal information of ordinary citizens, of course not. However, when there are no such reasons to speak against, the information officer in principle asked the authorities to reveal things if they did not want to — it is very important here. I think that this information officer will expire this year, if I am not mistaken. I personally regret that she will leave because she has done a great deal of work in the field of access to information of a public nature, although not everyone has always liked her moves. Normal. It's the logic of all the supervisory authorities that sometimes someone gets hurt. It's very important who we choose to go to this place, it's very important! One strong, professional man with a spine to take these things forward. If we have a good information officer or an authority, this law will in practice live better than any other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u89	Thank you very much. We're still at Article 21. Anybody else want to discuss this? If not, I conclude the debate on this Article. And we are moving on to the 23rd article, to which the amendments of the coalition's parliamentary group have been tabled. I don't see any desire to discuss it. We continue with Article 26. The NSI Group has tabled an amendment. Mr. Horvath, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Vice President. I agree with the Minister that this law will certainly have preventive effects when it is probably adopted. In fact, I see that the whole of the National Assembly is inclined to accept this. And that's good! We have some concerns about business secrets, too. Colleagues and colleagues, we have the Company Act. That's what my colleague Maja Potrate was talking about earlier. The Company Act – I understand that this is the Bible for companies. Not only does he define the concept of business secrecy, he also speaks of control councils. And, unfortunately, in all these years, what we have in our share societies, what we have in our control councils, we also have criticism of the control councils, of course, to those who are worthy of these criticisms. Or who knows if any member of the Supervisory Board has ever been materially responsible for his or her decisions and the company has gone, say, bankrupt due to wrong business decisions. In fact, there is not so much guilt in management, it may sound a little strange now – the control councils are the main ones here, but management is only, if I may say so, in a wage relationship with the owner and the owner can replace it through the control board at any time. But with us, the control councils, generally speaking, are not working, so we have a situation where we've been robbed of state property, banks emptied, etc. And all this about the Supervisory Councils is written in the Bible about companies called the Company Act. Now to the amendment of the Law on Access to Public Information. What's our point? We must be very careful that we do not overstep the Constitution and some other laws by means of this law that we are currently considering. It should be borne in mind that Article 39 of the Company Act defines the concept of business secrecy: "Business secrecy is considered to be the data for which a company with a written decision so provides. This Decision shall inform the members, workers, members of the organs of the company and other persons who must protect the business secret." So society decides by written decision what is a business secret. Article 40 of the Company Act speaks of the protection of business secrets: "With the written decision referred to in the first paragraph of the preceding Article", i.e. Article 39, "the company shall determine how to protect business secrecy and the responsibility of persons who must protect business secrecy." This is an extremely important area in which we must be careful. This does not mean that I do not agree with transparency, of course I agree, but in accordance with the law. Transparency yes, but in accordance with the Constitution and laws, which also define business secrecy and the protection of business secrets. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many matters of great concern to us today, which may make us in the National Assembly, and even more so the citizens we represent are disappointed. Why? Because we do not have corporate governance in the true sense of the word to which Professor Kovac is often critical. But we have many cases of corporate mismanagement, which is why we are where we are. Therefore, the state is sinking with acceleration, corruption is increasing, there is no confidence in the rule of law. Just one case, you probably know everyone who's been extremely disappointed in me. In the National Assembly, we talked a lot about Probank and Factor Bank, and we talked a lot about how these two banks are going to save us — taxpayers. And the extraordinary management of Probank and Factor Bank, which runs the controlled liquidation process, has proposed the seizure of deposits from the owners of these banks. It's about the deposit of the owners of Probanka and Factor Bank. And the court, according to my information, rejected this and recently, the owners of these two banks were supposed to have cleared their deposits from these two banks a few days ago. And the taxpayers are saving these two banks. Unfortunately, I'm running out of time. In the amendment to Article 26, we want the Minister to make the data available for the past five years, not from the law onward. Then we didn't do anything. Believe me, then we really make fun of each other. But for the last five fiscal years ago, data could be made available. The supervisor, whom we both praise, has been active since 2003. And in this context [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Minister, you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u92	Just an answer. Under the law, all the information available to these companies in their documentation will be made publicly available, regardless of when these documents were produced. So if they're 1 year ago, 3 years ago, or even 10 years ago. How long do they have to keep the documents, and this is a matter of accounting, tax and other regulations? We have already opened this question once today. It's not about retroactivity. The law will continue to apply, but it will apply to all the documentation available to them, regardless of which business events these documents refer to. And in that sense this amendment is not necessary. In order to go for all those years ago, even in the so-called proactive transparency that we should pick up these documents and publish them online – that would be an enormous provision for these companies. I think that we are already taking such a big step at this stage that maybe we should not go too far, because then we will not achieve the effect. On request, however, everyone, including for a year, two, three, five or 10 years ago, will be available if these documents are still available.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Lisec has even spoken. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u94	Thank you. Maybe it's because my friend Jozet is running out of time. It seems to me that this amendment of colleagues from New Slovenia is very important, so the first part, which nicely complements the second paragraph of this article, because the so-called bad bank provides an online publication of information of a public nature within 3 months of the entry into force of this law. Then colleagues add, which I think is crucial, that "including data on all bank loans already transferred under the predominant influence of the State from its establishment to the date of its entry into force". You know, we used to say the devil is in detail, and the wish is that we don't hide too much. On the other hand, we have in the procedure the so-called archival law, where we have some concerns that some things want to be hidden back; from now on, everything will be a tiptop. Even though the minister now said that everything would be open to the rear, it seems to me only a little — let me be allowed to express myself — secularly. From now on, we will look at every step that will be taken and, if necessary, back; or, as the minister said, too much data to deal with. Minister, you also probably have an open line from your CV, because you haven't answered everything and the public is waiting for the information back. And not only does he expect data on your further activities, from the adoption of this law; or from today’s cut-off day forward, what will happen will be important. And back, if necessary. I think that the two texts prepared by colleagues from Nova Slovenije are very important. So much so that we don't even give the public a false moment if we leave things alone again, but we'll look forward to it. But in this interim period from now on, so from the adoption of the law, some still have so-called mud water, where they can clean something up, they hide a little. I am therefore very sorry that one article is not open to these archives. Minister, I think it is necessary to support this amendment, even if you think that this new third paragraph is to be added to the text, I would suggest to my colleagues from the coalition that we support the whole amendment, even if we can break it down in this first part, crucially with data on the so-called "bad bank" back, and we can also leave this five-year period – if we agree with you – in peace. I think that support for this amendment would make the law much more effective.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u96	Don't get me wrong. The law will also provide access to data back, even without this amendment. It will ensure access to data from all documentation stored in companies owned by a majority of the state, i.e. sponsors, donors, advisory contracts, purchases of goods and services, etc., even in return, for the period to be kept under accounting and tax rules. That's assured. Even bad loans transferred from banks to the Banking Company are, of course, considered to be public data for all credits, regardless of when they have been transferred, whether they have already been transferred or will be transferred after the law has been implemented – is strictly applicable to all. About the business secret that was mentioned several times today. We have to be here and we have been very careful. We must not make the whole effect of this law disappear with one move and say that companies can set up a business secret and then they will not have to show them anything. We've been very careful about that. If you have looked closely, you have seen that even if an entity gives business secrets to a document, some things are still absolutely public. We're talking about the absolute public of some data. Basic information from contracts, what you purchased, where you purchased, how much he paid for it, what was the dynamics of the operation of the transaction, the time dynamics in which the transaction was carried out. It's all gonna be public, and there can't be a business secret here. Some technical specifications may be concealed in order not to disclose and cause damage or damage to suppliers, for example by disclosing technical details from their products or price structure; but how much was paid, for how much goods, what was purchased, from whom. It'll all be public, no exception, no matter what business secrets.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u97	Thank you very much for this further explanation. We can move on to Article 28. An amendment to this article has been tabled for the Coalition's parliamentary groups. Anybody want a debate? If not, we are moving on to Article 29. The amendment of the coalition was also tabled. At the same time, I warn you, because we have had many open articles and amendments that this is the last open article and the last amendment. If anyone wants to discuss it, he can discuss it here, otherwise I am concluding the debate. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u98	I have already pointed out in relation to Article 8 to which this refers and Article 12 that the coalition is doing that this article, which is purely the last article, is destroying what is in Articles 8 and 12. Which is positive there, it destroys with a long deferral period of 6 months for implementation. Until then, the gentlemen in the financial oligarchy who robbed our banks will clean everything up. This is the purpose of this amendment of the coalition and it is shameful. He's embarrassing! If you insist on doing so, tell the public that you are only bluffing in this country and also by this law — that it is just a bluff. The law shall be enforced when it is implemented. If they are not able to put on the internet on the first day, they will give it when they are able, not set six-month deadlines to enforce the law. This is a special technology in this regard. For the purpose of clearing public information relating to bank robbery and other relevant information to be provided for in this Act. Don't make fun of the citizens. Please do not make fun of the citizens in such a way that you are for something; at the same time with the last article, destroy the law which has been introduced into the procedure. That's embarrassing.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Don't worry about the unnecessary. Let me explain this hand so you will not think that the application of the law is now being postponed by Ad calendas graecas – there are two arms. One deadline refers to the inclusion of certain companies in the Supervisor. It is said that any transaction carried out by an entity is automatically seen in the Supervisor or in an application where all the business of these companies will be made available. In order to achieve this, the Administration of Public Payments must prepare itself technically. It was probably appropriate and appropriate to ask the Administration about public payments, in what time they were able to establish this in order to make it work, without entering into the law some deadlines, which then cannot be realized. The second is the three-month deadline for the DUTB to proactively publish bad credit data. Here we must be aware that the bad bank takes over the files and boxes of this documentation and that it is in the interest of all of us and the public interest to take a very close look at this and then that all the data from all the contracts are accurately transferred to the Internet. We've given this a lot of thought, whether to go into the so-called proactive transparency, but only reactively. It is said – or only that a bad bank will give only information at the request of someone; or that it proactively publishes everything on the Internet. We opted for a second option because it is better because in this way it ensures much greater transparency, everything will be in tables, tables, avoiding manipulation, that someone will want one data, the other. As Katarina said before, you will be throwing bells and GREPs at your left and right, and I don't know what; or some, not all, some. No, no, no. All the data transparently, analytically on the Internet so that you can look at every thing and also the history of every loan. Because whoever approved the last loan reprogram in the bank and was just solving something that had already been imported bears less responsibility or probably did what was right. A weak credit was created by someone in 2005, 2006 when they entered into a credit agreement with a company for which they should not grant credit under the basic banking rules. Giving 3 months of time from the acquisition of documentation to the establishment of this online application system, this web table is in favour of good information to the public, so that these data will be accurate, that things will be transparent, that things will stop, that things will not be published in half and half, because then they will be manipulated and speculated. If I draw the line, I understand today's debate of all the parliamentary groups, all the parliamentary groups, as a support to the law with some questions, with some scepticism about how this will work in practice, with perhaps a few different views on individual issues. The main message is that the Slovenian Parliament and all parliamentary groups support the transparency of business operations under the dominant influence of the state and municipalities and the public of data on bad credits that have created a bank hole in Slovenia. That's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek also wants to discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u102	Thank you very much. The Minister, who is intended to do this and where the intention of this article, which was prepared in the coalition, goes, is quite clear – even from today's record in Del, when he says that the coalition of the state society protects against the Supervisor. The press has also been very clear on the purpose of this amendment. And you didn't convince me, Minister. At the time when the Supervisor was given, he was overnight and he acted. And he also had some positive consequences on paying certain things, taxes, and I don't know what. Now it's time to hide the data. We have all considered that this article says that this law does not contain any infringing article. And they won't have to give the company any information, they'll be able to hide it further. The press noticed very clearly. And because of this, I have so much doubt that it's all about advertising or, like Shakespeare, saying, a lot of noise for nothing. Then it'll all sort of fade out, fade, no effect. This delay in the implementation of the law is unacceptable – 6 months. Whether there is a requirement for them to start preparing tomorrow or in 14 days, marriage, if there is no veto, constitutional complaints, or anything else, will still be too much time to hide. And you have to be aware of how this works in this country. How those who have so much free money that has been stolen stick pollen under the bicycles of the country and will be instigated here as well. And now you're giving them six months of extra time. Then it's not serious, I say it again, and it's not serious when I see what kind of pressure is being exerted on the Law and Law Service, that she wrote something like that. It notes that the amendments to Article 8 are not expressly excluded. But the explanation was horrifying; or it had to be pressured on the legislative service to write and sign it. I am also protesting this letter sent by the President against these pressures on lawyers because you are destroying their integrity to write something like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u104	After almost 23 years of independence, we only get this law and this transparency. If we had it in the 1990s when the key processes in our economy were happening, it would probably be different today in Slovenia than it is. If we had this transparency at the time, the bank hole probably wouldn't be the same as it is today. Now, if it's going to start after 1 month or after 3 months, I don't think it's that important. It is essential that this information be published on the Internet in a high-quality manner. Of course, as soon as the law is in force, those data that do not need to be analysed in such a way will be processed immediately before publication on the Internet. This is the information contained in the claim-taking agreement between the bank and the DUTB. The firm and the head office of the bank and the non-payer and the final gross exposure to each non-payer on the day of transfer to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. The aggregate data will be made public immediately. It doesn't take a day here. It's just published. In a detailed analysis for each individual contract, including information on the lenders – that is, who sat on the credit committee that gave this credit – it is necessary to take a little time to publish the information really good quality. There's nothing to be afraid of. If it were a tendency not to go public, there would be no such thing as a marriage. And also that amendment you tabled on the Banking Act, he was talking about something completely different. I remember, in the Tarč show, there was a brief controversy between your President Janša and me when he said, "Yes, yes, because this is what our Members have already suggested that all of this should be public." And I said, "No, they didn't propose, they suggested that we have access to this parliamentary committee of inquiry." And he said, of course, in his manner, "no, no, that was exactly what you want now." But anyone who gets a little deeper sees that this has not been so proposed, this has to do with access to data for Members and law enforcement authorities. But here we are talking about access for all the public, journalists and anyone interested in this information. And these are really big changes. I don't want to be an idealist with any marriage, so it will work 100 percent and work with the first day of the marriage. There will certainly be a lot of questions, there will be problems that need to be solved in the face, but there will be a big change. From the day of its entry into force, it will bring a big change, that is a fact.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Minister. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided on in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the Assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 18th item of the agenda. This concludes the agenda item. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, this is on the proposal of a law on the protection of the elderly and the family benefits in another defense. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to Mr Dejan Levanič, State Secretary, to further explain the draft law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u106	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! The current Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefit was adopted in 2001 and has been in force with some minor interim amendments for 13 years. One of the main reasons why we have taken action to amend this law is the implementation of the directive, namely the introduction of the European acquis into Slovenian legislation, with a view to reducing inequalities between women and men in the field of reconciliation of professional and family life. However, since we have already taken up this law and because we want to change it in some segments, we also wanted to update some of the other content for which the need for improvement has been demonstrated in practice over the years of implementation. First of all, the key news the law brings. The basic holiday system we know in Slovenia changes under the new law and is also named differently. Maternal leave, before maternity leave, remains 105 days. Then parental leave, pre-departure leave and child protection – is an individual and, in principle, non-transferable right of parents. Each parent has the right to parental leave for 130 days, with the mother able to pass 100 days on to the father and 30 days untransferable; the father can pass on all 130 days of parental leave to the mother. Thus, we will also be satisfied with the non-transferable 30 days of the Mother Directive, and this will be sufficient for the father in the form of a father's leave in the form of 75 days of unpaid leave. As regards paternity leave, we have received an explanation from the European Commission that a father's leave can be sufficient for a period of 1 month's non-transferable parental leave if the same benefits apply to this form of leave as for parental leave. If we say this more simply, the amended law foresees 15 days of paternity leave than before, i.e. at the birth of a child, together with a mother, plus an additional 15 days of paid paternity leave after the parental leave, i.e. after 1 year. In fact, this means that we extend the total length of leave at the birth of a child from 12 to 12 months. While the law provides for the time-limit for the entry into force of this novelty within three years of the year following the growth of gross domestic product by 2,5 %; it shall be reduced by 25 days of unpaid paternity leave each year and added to 5 days of paid paternity leave. Other novelties of the law are mainly better regulation of rights for social parents, where there are 2 important content, adoption leave is regulated in the same way as parental leave for biological parents. The law also better regulates rights for social parents who actually care and protect their children, such as the right to shorter working hours and partial payment for lost income, including for foster parents and caregivers. We also coordinate legislation with the European Social Charter, notably from the implementation of the Labour Relations Act. The new law before you introduces breast-feeding benefits, one hour a day from the age of 18. The right to work with shorter working hours is also being extended in the case of 2 children. Instead of 6 years of age, the child is now up to the end of the first class, with 1 year of this right being the irre transferable right of each parent. An important novelty is also the unification of all rights and deadlines. The law provides for rights to family benefits up to the age of 18, except for the right to a child care allowance and an allowance for a large family. The rights linked to the age of the child 6, 8 or 10 years, as proposed by this law, should be uniform to the end of the 1st grade of primary school, which also relates to the obligation to monitor the child at school and from school. In this law we also reduce administrative burdens for employers, they will be exempt from the requirements for the fulfilment of the basis for the benefit at the time of leave, including with regard to the notification of the transfer of leave. We're simplifying work for social work centres. In this case, work at the centres will be easier and cheaper, as we also introduce regular service decisions. In our view, solutions in the proposed law are an upgrade to existing rights and thus preserve Slovenian family policy among the most advanced in the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. The Chair of the Committee for the Presentation of the Committee's report shall have the floor. Here you go, Dr. Black Blur.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, secretary of state with coworkers, very nice greeting! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a law on parental protection and family benefits submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following a regular procedure. The National Assembly held a broad general debate on the proposal for a law and concluded that the proposal for a law on parental protection and family benefits was appropriate for further consideration. The Committee was attended by representatives and representatives of the proposer, a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, the State Council and the Community of Centres for Social Work, the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia, the Family Initiative and a representative of the Civil Initiative for the Family and Children's Rights. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. The main part of their comments was taken into account in the amendments adopted by the Coalition's parliamentary groups. In its proposal for an opinion, the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons endorsed the draft law. The Committee also adopted comments and suggestions from the interested public, including proposals with amendments to the Committee, the Family Initiative and comments to the Proposal for a Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits of the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance, which were mainly included in the amendments of qualified applicants. Introductory supplementary explanations of the articles were briefly presented by the representative of the applicant for the basic reasons for the adoption of the law. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out the provision of Article 114, which they considered could constitute a violation of equality before the law. On the basis of this opinion, the Committee adopted its amendment below. In the debate on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled, the debaters stressed in Article 1 that the bill is a good one to bring a lot of positive changes; unfortunately, there are also some reductions in the rights of families with multiple children. They commended the Ministry, which had already listened to comments in the public debate and responded to the public, which would also be applicable in other departments. All parliamentary groups have also announced support for the law, which has already been reflected in the general debate on the law. The broader debate was held on Article 29, which regulates the right to parental leave, and the amendment tabled by which the applicants wanted to maintain the applicable arrangements for the renewal of parental leave. In addition, it was pointed out that the provision was not sufficiently understandable. The Secretary of State therefore stressed that the article would remain open and that a later text could be formulated, which is also the subject of today's amendment. Among other things, a longer debate took place on Article 52, which provides for the payment of contributions in the case of four or more children, and on the amendment which retains the current regime, since it is more favourable for beneficiaries than the solution in the proposal for a law. The Committee adopted a decision calling on the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities to prepare a programme for better reintegration into the workplace for those women who have been absent from the job or from the labour market for long periods of maternity. Article 94, which lays down the time limit for the application of the rights to a child supplement, proposed the amendment to regulate the time limits in force for the exercise of the right to a child allowance, which is significantly more favourable for parents than the solution in the draft law. In the bill, the proposed solution for parents at the birth of each child would, at best, be reduced by one child allowance per month, but also by more. Some discussers cautioned that insistence on a poor solution for parents and children is taken lightly as a desire to reduce funds for children and families, with a solution that works in principle: more than a child in a family, more families lose, as compared to the current arrangement, there is a loss in the birth of each child. This article, in their view, is the most important for families, but the most socially weak. After a lengthy discussion, all the discussers agreed to amend the article and the Committee adopted the amendment to the amendment. The Committee voted on all the articles of the proposal together and adopted them. The amended proposal for a law is part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u109	Thank you very much, president of the board. Since the assembly held a general discussion at its 19th meeting on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. However, we are moving on to a debate on the article and on the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 3. 2. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We have opened the 29th Article of the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. Who wants to discuss this article, its contents and the contents of the amendment? Mrs. Barbara Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Madam President. Very briefly. The amendment itself is purely technical in nature, if I may say so. We have also done a number of debates on this amendment on the home work body and have sought the best direction to resolve any doubts in the very understanding of this article 29 and, as far as I understand it, now, with this dictatorship introduced by the amendment, we have resolved the doubts raised on the home working body, so that I do not see the problems and we will absolutely support the amendment. Last but not least, it's coordinated within the coalition. As it is said, the amendment to this sixth paragraph is only necessary in order to facilitate understanding of the right to extension of leave. I would also take this opportunity to simply mention and commend, on the other hand, the Ministry of the Interior, which was very cooperative in finding the best solutions within the scope of the options, so that I believe that the law will go with full support through the second reading of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u112	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! It is one of the changes in the law that has been experienced at the meeting of the parent working body in a constructive debate and also a considerable amount of support. As far as this is concerned, I am pleased that there are several positive solutions, a solution that goes in the right direction and that family protection is being promoted, although there are certain other comments that can be changed in better times. As far as this amendment is concerned, I also support it in its entirety, and as such, the Group of Members will support it. In particular, I would like to stress that I hope that wishes and aspirations will come true, and that at least partially the centres for social work will also be burdened. I try to point out several times that each law places an additional burden on centres dealing with many problems, collecting various data and so on on on all sides, which certainly cause them to suffer from their basic activities. And it seems important to me that we unload the centres and leave them or leave them more and more at our disposal for those activities which have also basically created them and which are why they work. But I only have maybe one comment, and it's not just about this law. The fact is, in Slovenia, we have become a overrated society in many cases. For each thing, it is necessary to check from many areas that there is not enough logical treatment, but all things are trying to normalize. Then, of course, the results are such that some things are not normalized, and then there we are happily violating them. This is a general comment on all the legislation we are adopting in this house, which is being prepared by the majority of the government and which we are trying to implement in life. Well, that's probably another topic. As we say, this amendment and the law will be supported by me and our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Iva Dimic has even signed up.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Dear representatives of the Ministry! We had quite a debate on the board. In the New Slovenia Group, we have proposed five amendments, which we have somehow summarized on the Family Initiative, which, above all, were already existing, under the old law, if I may say, because obviously today everyone has announced support for this new law, the right of large families. I think that it is necessary here and that it is right to return my calls and to say that I have expected a somewhat greater understanding of the Ministry's amendment in support of mothers who withdraw from the labour market, mothers or fathers who look after four or more children in their home care. I would like to point out that it seems to me that mothers who care for children, after a new law, according to a proposal we have made and decided that a programme will be set up to help these mothers get back to the labour market as soon as possible, that somehow, I cannot find the right word, is not compatible, because we cannot first take a right away from the mothers, but then we will say, and now we will put in place a programme that I expected, as everywhere it is, that a strategy is first made, and then, on the basis of a strategy, set a transitional period, a period of time to do so and that it will also satisfy all the needs of the market. [[…]] I would like to point out once again that these mothers or fathers who withdraw from the labour market are in Slovenia a thousand 500, which is not such a large number, nor in a financial sense, in the burden of the budget. According to the Ministry of Labour, this cost is about 200,000 a year, so I still find it unreasonable that we were unable to reconcile here. I am pleased that the text of "the oldest child" is deleted in Article 29, paragraph 6. This is one step toward improving the situation, but despite the fact that it was well - prepared and that it interfered with the welfare of other families, it in some way takes those large families. However, as regards the unloading of the Centre for Social Work, I have already proposed that their decisions should be simplified, their receipt and, in particular, all the cases that are connected, I think that this should be once a year, not then sent and proposed three times a year applications, but that these should be scholarships to children's allowances, so that this reduced payment of kindergartens. We will support the amendment in the New Slovenia Group because it is about improving the current situation of Article 29. But we will not oppose the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Branko Kurnjek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u116	Thank you for saying so, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! As we have already announced in our position at the first reading, we support the bill in the National Gazette. We are pleased in fact to have the participation of all stakeholders who have helped in this formation of the law, the participation of both the coalition and the opposition. Last but not least, the Committee has shown that matters that are acceptable are to be agreed upon. With regard to Article 29 and the amendment to the sixth paragraph, where the word "oldest child" is deleted, I would like to say that the Ministry or Mr Secretary, as soon as he saw that there was some misunderstanding of this paragraph, although, as far as we understand it, they were thinking in the right direction, but there was a miscommunication and we have already agreed on the committee itself that this article and the amendment will be amended in this direction so that no different or wrong interpretations will occur. We support and co-sign an amendment to Article 29. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Mrs. Black Nebula, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Article 29 first. Of course we support him, because we are co-signers of this amendment. In a way, this amendment reflects good cooperation, mutual listening, I would say, and, of course, seeking optimal solutions. I would also like to express my support for the entire law, which is largely the result of the fact that we are transferring certain solutions from the European directives to the Slovenian legal order. In particular, I would like to highlight one very important novelty brought by law. This is that the rights that apply to biological parents, in the event that they are not exploited by them alone, also apply to social parents. This right, those who take care of the child actually take care of the child, also belong to those rights. This seems to me to be a major step forward in this law and it would be appropriate to stress it in particular. If the situation is more favourable, we will be able to extend in the future the rights that we give to families in Slovenia. I would like to reiterate that Slovenia is one of the countries that have an extremely successful family policy, which, given the material possibilities in which we are located, gives great rights to families, and I hope that, as we have done in the past, we will do so, even in the future, in the agreement of all parties, views, even in the future. In particular, I hope that we will find a great deal of support for new approaches and solutions when we consider a new resolution on family policy. For many times it turns out that in fact our own perceptions are what is important, different from the facts. That is why we need research, and that is why I need expert opinions to tell us what measures actually can help parents and their children in a combination. If I touch any more questions about dealing with the rights of families with multiple children. I think there is, however, a solution that still gives families with more children a lot of rights – more than in other countries if you look. However, what is important is not only the time when one of the parents, mostly the mother, is with the children, but also the time when this mother is returning to the labour market. See, also the German Coalition Treaty highlighted the importance of programmes for these mothers who are returning to the labour market. Why is that important? When we return to the labour market, of course, it is important that they can work successfully. But it's also important because these mothers are going to retire one day. And when they retire, of course, it is not in our interest that they receive minimum income, but that they can enjoy and live by what they have done in life. That is why both views, the time of motherhood, which is very important, and also the optimal care of the child, as well as the time when these mothers are actually returning to the labour market. Therefore, I believe that the solutions we have written down in this law are a good, real reflection of the search for the maximum possible degree of consensus, so all the support of this law by the SD party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Dr. Black Blur for an interesting and very professional discussion. At this point, however, I would like to point out that I expect the same constructiveness when it comes not only to the discussion of the article and the amendment, but also to the wider scope, even when it comes to other topics. We're not done yet. Mr. Horvath, would you like a word? Yeah. Here you go. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u120	Excuse me, Madam Vice President. I think you've exceeded your powers at this point. Stick to your role and direct the work of the National Assembly as necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u121	Thank you very much. I'll warn you again, this time in person, Mrs. Crnak Megličeva. I congratulated you on your debate. I even let that happen. However, you have discussed a much broader subject, much more than just Article 29 and the Amendment to Article 29. That's all I was saying. I don't think your intervention was necessary. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Family policy is almost an extremely complex policy, made up of many elements, from many components. In New Slovenia we understand the family as a value and place it high on a scale of values. On the one hand, we are pleased that, in view of the discussions on the Committee, I am not a member of this Committee, but I have closely monitored the discussions, but somehow it felt that family or family policy means a lot to us and that you have found some common solutions or, in other words, that you have listened. I am also pleased that at least part of you have listened to civil society, which is particularly busy and working for the best possible environment of Slovenian families. When we talk about parental protection and family benefits, of course, income is money, we are all aware that good family policies cannot be done only with money or with money at all. It is necessary to create the environment that I spoke about earlier, in which our families will feel good. And not only is the family the basic cell of society, as we know from the definition of sociology in high school years, but at least I personally appoint the family and treat it as a basic educational institution. In fact, here in the family, education begins, then is completed in primary school and so on. We talk about parenting a lot. For example, when we talk about road safety, we say, yes, we need to start in the family and so on and so forth. I'm not a psychologist and an expert on psychological, sociological conditions and theories that apply to family, I'm just a father, and I'd always like politics to give the family extraordinary attention. In my opinion, it's always too small, no matter the color of the government, to understand each other. This law, I think, brings some minor improvements. It has to be admitted. And it is also necessary to acknowledge to the ministry responsible for the family that it has listened to our clearly expressed intervention or strong opposition a few months ago in order to force fathers to take their father's leave. I am pleased and grateful to the Ministry that this comment, certainly not only New Slovenia, but also other circles, has taken into account. Unfortunately, the law also preserves some weaknesses, and now I will not analyse them in detail, this has been said on the committee responsible. It also brings new deteriorations, and unfortunately we must agree. I believe that, on the one hand, when we talk about remuneration, we also have some fiscal frameworks. Unfortunately, that's the way it is, and families feel it. The family policy must also have been affected by the wine price policy. That's where it happened. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u123	Excuse me, Mr. Horvath, please focus on the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u124	Oh, that's right. Thank you so much for the heads-up. It is certainly understood that, given that the amendment is of a technical nature, it is worthy of support. But I can't express my enthusiasm for vinyl policy. Now, somehow large families will get this high price that they have to pay for slightly larger cars because they have more family members, in a very unfortunate way they get back. Let me finish. In view of all the above, I will not oppose the law alone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 29? Since I no longer see any interest in the debate, I conclude it. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 18th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. At the end of the day, this is first of all a proposal for a law to prevent work and employment in black. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of 26 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Mr Dejan Levanič, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello again! For a long time there is a law on prevention of work and employment in black. You know that the first attempt was a while ago, and unfortunately, one of the controversial dictatorships of neighbourhood aid fell to the referendum. This time, a renewed attempt to adopt this law, which has an additional upgrade, which we are particularly proud of, because we feel we have come to a clear law that specifies exactly what work and employment is in black, and is another in the package of laws to fight against the grey economy. This ministry has already adopted two laws, the first on labour inspection and on home records, so that we are now in this law, which in particular speaks very carefully and accurately of how the supervision of work and employment is carried out in black. We are also talking about the integration of the customs administration, which is additional assistance to inspectors on the ground from many areas, both over employment and work in black, and in particular control over the work on black so-called marshes, which are a particular problem in today's society, particularly when we are talking about the provision of certain services. An additional novelty in the law is the obligation that in cases where work with the employer is carried out under a contract of civil law or a contract for the performance of temporary or occasional work, a copy of the contract shall be kept at the place of operation. This essentially improves the effectiveness of control, as in practice it has often happened that people who were on the ground did not have contracts concluded or were not even registered in the social contributions register. More specifically, it also defines illegal advertising of work or employment in black, including the prohibition of advertising of work under civil law contracts, a simplified procedure for the application of short-term work is no longer necessary to register in this case. The employer himself maintains a record signed by both the employer and the worker. The fines are rising. For a long time, the supervisory authorities have been warning that the fines currently prescribed are not in fact appropriate and have no desired preventive effect and therefore the most significant increase in the fine for so-called marshes, which has already been highlighted by the supervisory authorities on the ground as a significant increase in this type of work in black. It is also envisaged to take away the assets obtained by working in black. The supervisory authorities may also, in a rapid procedure, impose fines higher than the minimum laid down. Even for a misdemeanor committed out of self-interest or when the acquired illegal property benefit is high, the threatened fine is three times higher than the minimum prescribed. There's quite a bit of news in this marriage. For example, for supervisory authorities, access to certain databases is established as a basis for linking records or databases with a view to preventing social and tax abuses. A measure of exclusion from public procurement procedures in the case of infringements of the law concerning illegally employed third-country nationals is also included. It is envisaged that these employers, together with others who have restrictions on inclusion, will be published on a public blacklist, which is extremely important and a step forward, given that we wanted to make it clear in the law that we do not want to lead only criminal policies and policies that are simply pursuing those who work or work in black, but we want the forms of work that arise because of such or other living needs on the ground to enable those who are also doing personal complementary work to do it in a legal way, so that they can report that they can also have recognised rights from pension insurance, that they are health insurance, and that, in fact, this work, which will be specifically defined, will be marked by those works that are also possible in this context, which are mostly carried out by natural persons at home – and this is today much more. With the so-called Voucher system, we are moving the value system in Slovenia to a regulated system of personal complementary work, which we think is very important from this point of view, because because of different living circumstances this work has become very desirable on the ground. But the key is to limit it. Given the services that occur on the ground, we do not want this to represent any new competition in the labour market or in the provision of services, because we also limit the amount of possible earnings. So much is possible in the introductions, but I believe that there will be more debates in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u127	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Group of Social Democrats and Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u128	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello again! Your Honor! The Law on Job Prevention and Black Employment is part of a package of laws in the field of the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities in the fight against the grey economy. This law, together with the Labour Inspection Act, which is coming into the parliamentary procedure and with the already adopted Single Maternal Record Act, will make it easier and more effective to pursue work and employment in black. The draft law thus makes it possible for supervisory authorities to be more effective. The supervision of black and black employment of individuals, so-called storms, is transferred to the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. It allows for a greater review of the work under civil law contracts or contracts for the performance of temporary and temporary work, as a copy of the contract must be kept at the place of work. In this way, it will be impossible for employers to say that they do not have a contract with them, and in fact they have not concluded such a contract at all. An increase in fines will also make an important contribution to the prevention of work and employment on the line, since, in particular, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia has often complained that it is better to pay the penalty than to provide its services legally. It is also envisaged to take away the assets obtained by working in black. It is worth mentioning that work in black will not be considered an urgent work, neighbourhood assistance, self-direction work and humanitarian charity and voluntary work. In particular, I would like to mention the novelty of this law with regard to the regulation of personal supplementary work. The law introduces innovations that will allow greater transparency and control over this type of work, while at the same time the individual who carries out such work will also have rights in principle from this title: each work counts. The list of persons performing personal supplementary work will then be made publicly available online. The service provider, which can be a natural person exclusively, will pay online a value from which the operator will be paid a contribution to pension and disability insurance and health insurance. This will ensure more notification of personal and complementary work. Finally, let me add that the Social Democrats believe that the detection and prevention of the grey economy must be one of the fundamental tasks of this country, as it is important to prevent unfair competition in order to recover the economy. This fight is also necessary for the preservation of the social state and for human security. That is why the Social Democrats will support this bill. Finally, let me remind us all together of the responsibility and awareness that we must work together to reject every job without an account, to hire only registered service providers and to consider whether, with the support of work, what it means or what we do with society and what we do for those involved in this part of the work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The text shall be given by the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code and by Mr Branko Kurnjek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u130	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Once again, everyone has a very nice greeting! The coalition partners have also committed themselves to certain measures in the fight against the grey economy by signing a coalition treaty. One of the elements that we associate with the concept of the grey economy is also the pursuit of work and employment in black. If I limit myself to performing my work in black, more specifically to individuals who carry out an activity for which they are not registered, it should be said that the latter, with their work, in many cases constitute unfair competition for self-employed persons and other legal entities who are legally engaged, pay taxes and contributions. However, such forms of work and employment also result in a dwindling state budget or scarce resources intended to maintain a certain level of social security and welfare. When it comes to noises, let me say that in the Group of the Nationals of the List we are aware of the scope of such a form of work, but at the same time we believe that we should look at this issue more broadly and at a systemic level. Why? Because several studies have shown that the size of the grey economy is largely linked to economic cycles. When the country is in a negative economic growth phase or in a so-called recession, it is inevitable that the proportion of the unemployed will increase, the income will decrease, people will become afraid of the future, and these are the conditions under which the tendency of individuals to operate in the grey economy is particularly increased. How? By seeking additional employment, of course in black, through non-declaration of income with a view to avoiding tax liabilities, etc. The set of measures currently available and with which it is possible to limit work and employment to black is, unfortunately, based primarily on the effectiveness of the various inspection services, the level of the fine at risk and other sanctions, the sole purpose of which is not only dissuasive nature. In the Group of Citizens, we are aware of the need for changes in this area and support certain changes that will address as many new emerging forms as possible, by which individuals are able to avoid the competent inspection bodies. However, we also have concerns when it comes to changing institutions in a way that additional administrative burdens are placed on citizens and citizens who occasionally or to a lesser extent perform work, such as household aid, cleaning, ironing, washing and so on, collecting and selling forest fruits, making different products in a traditional way and so on. In particular, the proposal for a law changes the way we register, which is what we have the greatest concerns about. The bill introduces values that mean not only administrative but also financial burdens for those who will continue to do such work in the future. We are also held back to solutions that represent a drastic increase in sanctions, as we believe that there is still a great deal of manoeuvre in the field of the effectiveness of many inspection services, as well as in the consistent exercise of the powers laid down in the Law on Offences and Area Rules, which allow already now inspection bodies or courts, in addition to a fine, to impose foreign sanctions, such as the seizure of objects used or caused by the commission of an offence, as well as the property benefits derived from an infringement. In the Civil Gazette, we do not yet have a final position on supporting the draft law at first reading, and we will make a final decision on the basis of today's debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Slovenian People's Party's Group and by Mr Jakob Preseknik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u132	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with his associates! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group we support the principle definition against these phenomena, which we call short work in black because we know that this is one of the biggest problems definitely ours and other societies, and especially our societies. After all, the crisis we are in is making this kind of work even bigger. And the more this work gets bigger, the bigger the crisis. So we're in a spin, we've got some kind of spring snake, and I'm sure we need to find a way out of this vicious circle. Also, all chambers in the field of economy are always problematic in their programmes or stressing the importance of regulation of work in black, fighting this, even though they know that this is happening many times in their own species. But we welcome this request for this area to be settled. One such issue is, as we recall not so long ago, or a few years ago, when the Chamber of Commerce and Industry proposed a system, or at the rate of income, each account counts. This was one of the measures by which we would certainly blacken some of this work. It would be an interest to eliminate work on both sides, with the employee and with the individual. The purpose of this Act is to strengthen field control, as well as increased sanctions for offenders of this law, as well as to provide a basis for more effective work by supervisory authorities. As I said, we support this law in principle. I hope, given that we have a law at first reading, that there will be some changes. I'm afraid a little of this evaluation procedure will take place. As for neighbourhood aid, we know that one of the stumbling blocks of that law at the time, in 2008, it seems to me that in 2008, I am sorry, 2011, it was just a neighborly work, which was one of the elements that helped to bring the law back to the referendum. Now in this law at least I don't see any special dramatic changes, it's very short notice, I think in one paragraph this neighbourhood aid is enrolled. I think there's a lot of room here for a different interpretation of this neighbourhood aid. It is true that in a chapter under Roman II we have listed activities and works which are not considered to be work or employment in black. All these activities, from work in their own directing, urgent work and so on, including neighbourhood assistance in one article, can be many interpretations of this law. If we look back at the end of the last week, on these days, even today, and it will certainly take another week and several weeks, for some rehabilitations in the woods even a year and more, even though we have elementary accidents specifically mentioned in one of the articles, there are also many interpretations in this part. If this neighbourhood aid had not been available in those days, we would probably not have been sown in these premises today, or the participation would have been significantly smaller because many of us or our colleagues could not even attend the meeting of the national assembly. To mention only us, of course, this is about establishing living conditions throughout the territory or in most of the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. This is only because we see what problems we can face in these neighbourhood aids, in activities related to basic accidents, in other events where it is extremely difficult to draw a line and say that there is black work on one side, and on the other hand there is another form of work. As it is said, I am confident that this law will be given second reading, further consideration by the Committee and by the National Assembly. At the moment, there is no reason for us in the parliamentary group to oppose this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia and mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u134	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Nice greetings to the minister with her team and all the other colleagues and colleagues! One of the priorities of this government coalition is to fight against the grey economy and other forms of concealment or avoidance of obligations. This phenomenon in Slovenia is estimated by the Ministry of Finance to be EUR 8 to 10 billion, according to OECD criteria and estimates, that is 24% of gross domestic product, which is 6 percentage points above the average in the European Union. However, precisely as a percentage, the share of the grey economy is very difficult to predict. It can be framed in the range of 17 to 25 per cent of gross domestic product. Regardless of the numbers, it is certain that this problem is firmly rooted in our country and that the fight against it is hard and demanding. In the DeSUS Group, we support the measures adopted by law, and we will be happy to support it and turn on the green light. We will also support any law or amendment of any law that will contribute to the eradication of this problem. Whatever good legislation we have in this area, and regardless of the effectiveness of the supervisory services, it is essential to improve and raise the legal, labour and tax culture in our country in the first place. I find it interesting to hear in the home environment how quickly we call it "this one" for someone who does, say, black work. But let's not think about avoiding tax. For someone else who does a similar job, we say, "this cheats the country." I think that as long as we think about working in black in Slovenia, if this is the case, we will not be able to destroy the grey economy. The grey economy is also reflected in a set of adverse effects on society as a whole and on any individual, notably in the absence of tax revenues, pension, health and social welfare revenues, which is the reason why the State increases taxes and contributions, as it is essentially forced to do so, in unfair competition and social dumping for employees who pay taxes and contributions, and in the unfair access of individuals to public services such as education, health, infrastructure and the like. So we see that the grey economy is a multi-layered problem and we need to tackle it comprehensively, systematically. As soon as the work began, this government coalition faced a grey economy. It has taken more seriously the preparation of the necessary measures that will contribute to the management of this problem, which is rooted in all times of our daily life. The measures have so far focused mainly on improving the detection and control of the grey economy and improving the criminal policy. However, measures must also focus on prevention and curativeness and on what is crucial – a change in awareness and perception of the importance of these consequences of the grey economy of all citizens. It is crucial that measures be implemented in all areas where this phenomenon is possible in the fight against grey foxes in the economic space. The prevention of work and employment in black is only one part of the problem of the grey economy. With a new law in this area, the government wants to strengthen control in the field, including the customs administration, and to increase sanctions for violators. In doing so, in our Group of Members, we advocate that penalties must be high enough to deter a potential offender from violating it. Better work of the supervisory authorities will also be facilitated by access to certain databases, which will serve as a basis for linking different records with a view to preventing social and tax abuses. With regard to increasing the possibility of effective control and action, there is also a new obligation that in cases where work with the employer is carried out on the basis of other civil law contracts, i.e. in the case of any other contractual relationship which does not have the legal basis of a classic employment contract, a copy of this contract shall be kept at the place of work. The proposer of this law prohibits the advertising of works carried out through civil law contracts. Such advertising also contributes to the presence and increase of the grey economy. The Institute of Personal Complementary Work, which is not considered to be black work, is also newly regulated and will now be regulated as a voucher system. It will still be possible to carry out personal complementary work within the framework of activities which are considered to be such as those defined by the sub-legislative act already now. The regulation will even extend them a little bit. This work will be possible on the basis of a valuation only for the contracting entity which is a natural person. Some believe that obtaining a value is just an unnecessary administrative obstacle that people will not be able to use, thus not helping to resolve the grey economy. Some even think that's why there'll be more. In the DeSUS Group, however, we are confident that operators of personal supplemental work will be much better off than they are now due to this value, which will be paid for them – 7 euros for pension and 2 euros for health insurance. They have acquired a number of rights from this title. On the other hand, the contracting authority will be so protected from a high penalty that could otherwise be incurred under inspection. In the DeSUS Group, we welcome this novelty and the proposed law as a whole and will therefore support it. We hope, however, that, with our common powers and knowledge and efforts, we will manage or at least severely reduce the grey economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group and Mrs Iva Dimic have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u136	Madam Vice-President, Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In Novi Slovenija we believe that work in black decreases the social security of workers and reduces the social protection system for income. It also causes unfair competition for small and medium-sized enterprises that have driven our development. We are therefore working towards more effective monitoring and sanctioning of black work. In this regard, we welcome the preparation of the novel, which we are considering for the first time today in the National Assembly. Among civil society organisations, the Chamber of Commerce and Business Slovenia presented its views and comments on the draft law. They gave a positive assessment of the intention to transfer control of the black work to the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia and to tighten up. In their view, forestry is also a major unfair competition for craft and other small and micro-enterprises. In its position, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia even proposes even more stringent provisions on certain areas, namely, neighbourhood aid, self-direction work, voluntary work, personal complementary work and some others. In New Slovenia, too, we believe that some solutions are good and appropriate, while others see the danger of overriding the area. The causes of a large percentage of the grey economy are also the actions of the current government. In the past year, we have experienced so many tax and contribution increases that we are not able to follow them at all. People, individuals and businesses are not so motivated to pay taxes fairly, but the state is encouraging them to look for different ways and circuits to avoid paying taxes. The government should therefore, in the first place, address the causes, lower taxes and then make order in this area. Christian Democrats also do not agree to the intimidation of entrepreneurs, especially of innkeepers and florists in recent times, through media-response actions by the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. Nowhere have we heard how successful these actions have been for the state budget. The tax order is not established through the media, but through a regulated and functioning system that motivates entrepreneurs to pay taxes. We are also detained until the introduction of a new bureaucratic constraint on the valuation that is supposed to be the basis for personal complementary work. It is right to establish order in this area, and the question is how this can be achieved through new papers. It is also a question of whether personal complementary work after the payment of health and social insurance contributions will be paid at all and remains interesting as one of the alternatives. Members of New Slovenia will not oppose the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia and Mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I heard a citizen's statement on the radio a day ago, commenting on the state of the spirit in our society, saying that it is unacceptable for the executive directors of the bank to have such a dismal monthly income and for managers to pay monthly wages that go beyond the annual workers' income. I absolutely agree, but I believe that there is no person in this House who would disagree with her statement. I find it horrifying that we have sailed into the wheel of immorality, which dictates the pace of capital in the first place. You had a chance on TV days ago to watch the position of one of the, I'll say, modern managers who use the manager's ransom to extract workers. He's not the first, he's not the only one, I'm afraid, not the last one who says publicly without shame that a worker has to belong more to his company. In exchange for belonging and greater motivation, he lowers his salary. Not to mention any other motivational apprehension that is directly contrary to all successful theories, if you also want a collective managed society, whose component are workers, people. Too many times in our society, the word association of corporate governance is also used too. Why am I saying this? We want it, and we allow it to be abused at every turn. Every so long, there are ideas on how we can increase the competitiveness of the economy at the expense of reducing workers' rights. I wonder – is this really the right way? Is stopping a paid lunch break the right way to a more competitive economy? I'm going to tell another story here that came into my ears the day my neighbor met me on the stairs of my block. He says, "we've come so far that I have to bring a toilet paper roll to work in the morning." Maybe it sounds funny. I'd say it's more tragic. Because he's just a worker working for someone, and God forbid he'd benefit from anything that's been in our society until recently. To get back to that radio story from the beginning. The woman, the same woman who called on the radio and commented on the state of the spirit in our society, works in black for 10 years. He speaks without shame or fear, publicly, without fear of being reported. Why? Because he has to survive his three children. She doesn't get regular jobs, but she's happy. It has paid all the supplements, including transport, lunch, but no insurance and as soon as possible the same person will be placed in front of a large obstacle, respected colleagues and colleagues. If not sooner, when she'll be counting years for retirement. Moral dilemma. Working in black, surviving children, on the other hand not getting regular jobs. For a lot of people, it's a moral dilemma, I believe. And for me, absolutely, with multiple perspectives. But a gray economy is an atomic bomb for a social state. Given the thinking of the capital owners, I'm going to say absolutely not all of them here, but don't hold that for everyone, even though I'm generalizing it. It is no wonder that the grey economy or employment in black is so widespread. According to data that the Slovenian government is also able to understand, work on the black or so-called grey economy per year in the state budget or in this black hole is expected to lose 7 billion euros. From an economic point of view, work and employment in black means unfair competition. The lower price, since no contributions and taxes are included, on the other hand there is no guarantee and no insurance. Work and employment in black are linked to risk and have absolutely negative consequences for the social state, property, human security and the environment. The tax revenue and other duties which the State replaces on the other hand, unfortunately, by higher taxes elsewhere, have fallen out of the public treasury. Grey companies and entrepreneurs distort competition on the market. Grey businesses and entrepreneurs do not grow, remain at the same level, as long as they can still hide income and carry on their business, they cannot use institutions such as courts, banks and so on. The grey economy makes it possible for individuals to have unfair access to public services. And here we come to our so-singed solidarity. Public services, you know, these are public schools, all public infrastructure, security, etc. And, of course, unfair access or so-called free-of-charge access to social benefits that were not paid, such as kindergarten, children's allowance, etc. A grey worker, so-called grey worker, has only minimal social security. For example, pension, health insurance — or no pension. The consumer cannot claim for a poor service, but this is, I believe, the smallest problem in all of these problems brought about by the grey economy. Last but not least, the consumer who does not take the account does not gain anything in practice. All those who pay all the tax burdens correctly, we maintain a system of social states that is based, I will mention once again, solidarity and include public education, public health, social welfare and also pension systems. I have also witnessed several times in the field expressing dissatisfaction with the situation when certain rights are lifted. Specifically, postmortem, and that's from people who use the system so easily. The government of Alenka Bratušek has also committed to the coalition contract and we are also implementing this law as a coalition commitment, which together with the Labour Inspection Act constitutes a continuation of the fight against the grey economy. Let me mention just three very important problems. In view of the international analyses available, Slovenia is not going to say that I refer only to data published by the Slovenian Government in the upper third of the countries according to the scope of the grey economy, as it is expected to be 24,1% of GDP in 2011. Work inspectors. That's the next big problem. In Slovenia, regardless of the huge size of the grey economy in the whole country, the Minister will correct me if I do not have the right data, about 65 working inspectors. And when we like to discuss systemic solutions like that, we hear from the opposition a lot of times how the coalition proposes some solutions that are not systemic and therefore do not support the laws. I will mention another non-systemic solution introduced two years ago by the Public Finance Balance Act of the current opposition or the previous government coalition to correct myself. ZUJF also introduced a ban on public sector employment. And here too, dear fellows and colleagues, we are running into a problem. On the one hand, we have needs on the ground that are on the rise and on the other hand we have a shortage of labour inspectors, and this is not from last year, from last year, from last year. Since I have been monitoring the work of the National Assembly, we have been dealt with practically every year in the annual reports on the work of the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia to deal with labour shortages of labour inspectors. On the third page, however, we also face a ban on full employment in the public sector. And then you have to look for one of the worst or best options. I hope that this law also brings in this area, as far as field control is concerned, certain solutions that go in a positive direction. Also by redistributing some other workers within the Customs Administration, but later on. The third problem that we absolutely perceive, not only in Positive Slovenia, I believe that this is a problem that we are familiar with, in fact, all of us, working hours of inspectors. Field work, which, according to my assessment, indicates that there is no update on infringements, because labour inspectors are practically working in the morning from seven to three, from eight to four, and at the time when the biggest infringements are on the ground, they are virtually out of control on the spot. Earlier, I mentioned the annual report of the Labour Inspectorate, and allow me to read from the regular report, which we will consider at the next meeting of the home labour body, only for oris, the part that touches employment in black: "Inspectors for work in 2012 report a number of infringements related to employment in black. Some employers continue to try to reduce labour costs in this way, with the negative effects of employment on the background of workers themselves who do not have paid social security contributions, which employers can suspend at any time, as well as in a broader social context, in reducing inflows to public treasury." Next: "In certain cases, even after the inspectors have been reported, workers do not want legal employment, as by black employment they avoid payment of debts to the State or other creditors, and legal employment could also affect some of their benefits, such as monetary social assistance. The inspectors also report on the occurrence of a test of workers without contracts......... and so on, that I do not continue because the report is very extensive. I will only agree with the information contained in this report that 670 infringements, which have been reported, were detected in 2012. The solutions proposed by this law or the substantial innovations that I hope will bring some positive changes. We want to strengthen field surveillance, increase sanctions for lawbreakers, provide a basis for more effective work by supervisory authorities. I mentioned earlier that the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, which has already had some positive actions in the past, will also be included in the control system. Furthermore, there is a new obligation that in cases where work with an employer is carried out under a contract of civil law or a contract for the performance of temporary or occasional work, a copy of the contract must be kept at the place of work, which is absolutely, I believe to be a step in the right direction. This also improves the effectiveness of direct control. More precisely, illegal black-and-black advertising is defined, the short-term application process is simplified, the fines are slightly higher, the loss of property benefits obtained through black-and-black work is envisaged. The supervisory authorities shall have access to certain databases as a basis for linking records or databases with a view to preventing social and tax abuses. And another, I believe that the positive news that we have heard about today, and I believe that we will also hear more specific questions and explain that the Institute of Personal Supplementary Work is being reorganized as an exception to black work. Of course, we also know other exceptions, such as neighbourhood aid, self-direction work, emergency work, humanitarian work, charity work and so on. As far as personal work is concerned, that I will not now talk about all the details, perhaps only one of the important ones, according to my assessment, of the novelty brought by personal supplementary work, is, in principle, the value of each work is the value of each work, or the so-called voucher, issued at the time of payment of the contribution to pension and disability insurance and the contribution to health insurance, which means that in this way the operators of these works are paying contributions to pension and disability insurance, which is undoubtedly a positive move in the right direction. However, the valuation system is designed for similar arrangements, as some European Union countries have introduced, for example Belgium, Italy, France and Croatia, and has had positive effects in these countries. Let me close or close. Today we have already heard from one of the speakers before me that there is a need to change tax culture and mentality. Absolutely, the logic of thinking, the concept of perception of work, participation of workers in decision-making and also understanding what positive climate means in the working environment. Personally, I do not believe that if you constantly oppress a person, punish him in one way or another, it can develop into a healthy, contented and motivated personality. I don't believe it. The company is decorated with identity, image, reputation. Last but not least, the legality of sound corporate governance, belonging, satisfied workers. And this is one of the principles of the OECD, and in the background of every society, there are people in particular. I am now talking about this important principle of the OECD. Other key stakeholders are employed. Motivated employees are those who are the key to the success of all economies. In the period ahead, they will undoubtedly make the greatest contribution to overcoming the challenges ahead. They therefore demand more and more accurate knowledge of the organisation and the functioning of the company in which they are employed. The real answer is therefore a highly structured corporate governance that adequately manages key risks and gives employees a sense of the security and perspective of the company they are part of. I say that when we succeed in building trust among all stakeholders, we will make an invaluable contribution or progress towards greater success of the economy in general. And not just the economy, the society as a whole. As long as a person, a worker is treated as a mere expense against a machine, or I say, yes, that the machine that is an investment for a company is actually treated as something that is absolutely positive, that is how long I'm afraid, that these kinds of laws will be so well-intentioned, just putting out the fire that is absolutely necessary. The fire must be extinguished so that there is no natural disaster, yet the fire is still submerged. The grey economy and the inefficient rule of law are an atomic bomb for the social state. Why am I closing this sentence? Also because we were talking about family policy at the previous point. You know, family policy also depends on preventing a gray economy in a wide range of segments, and not least on the state of the spirit in our society. But, as it is said, more about the law itself and the positive news that this law brings, in the debate below. Absolutely in Positive Slovenia we fully support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The Member Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and Mrs Romana Tomc have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u140	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, the secretary with the team! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware that the grey economy is a very serious problem in our country, so we support all the efforts that are being made to address this area also through appropriate legislation that will provide the basis for the most effective prevention of this phenomenon. However, there is already a legal basis. It is not ideal, but it is good enough to allow for appropriate action. So the key to reducing the scope of the grey economy is not in the legislation itself and only in the legislation. It shall be in the hands of the inspection services of appropriate supervision. In order to effectively pursue the grey economy and to understand this law, a number of basic concepts need to be clarified first. On the basis of this law, as many feel, those who do not issue bills will not be punished, nor will those who do not pay their wages be punished. Only those who do not have their permits properly regulated will be punished under this law. So those who are not registered or not registered in the appropriate manner and those who do not have an appropriate employment contract with the worker. Once again, this law does not regulate sanctions for those who do not issue invoices and does not regulate sanctions for those who do not pay taxes and does not regulate sanctions for those who do not pay wages. Let me put it this way. Let me put it this way. Like the case of a hairdresser who's registered for hairdressing services. This hairdresser, as part of a service, in addition to cutting hair for her client, does an even smaller cosmetic service for which she is not registered. For any of these services, let's assume he doesn't issue an account. If it is bad luck, the inspectors will catch it, but in such a case, black work will not be considered or counted as just what it did as a cosmetic service, whereas the part it did as a hairdresser service will not be considered a black job, since the hairdresser is properly registered, even though no account has been issued for any of the services. From the point of view of this law, registration is therefore decisive. It doesn't matter whether we pay taxes, whether we pay our wages, whether we are properly registered. It is very important to distinguish this, for if we know what we are talking about and what we are pursuing, then, of course, success can be greater. This misunderstanding is quite a bit, misleading on different sides, different interpretations can be heard by the government, by coalition colleagues and even in the media, we can read some misinterpretation, so I doubt that the financial recovery of this law would be as great as 24% of gross domestic product multiplied by duly paid taxes and contributions. I think this marriage is going to bring a lot less. However, I would like to draw attention to some of the very specific problems or concerns we have in the Slovenian Democratic Party regarding this law. Above all, I have in mind here a new regime of personal complementary work, new bureaucratic complications, although every day and again the government stresses how these administrative obstacles are being overcome. With this arrangement of personal supplemental work, however, she has taken one big, big step forward in setting up new bureaucratic barriers. That this is indeed so that the financial effects will not be so great and that bureaucratic obstacles will be significant, the government actually indirectly recognises itself when it assesses the financial effects of this law. He says that due to the enforcement of this law, approximately 300,000 new contributions to health insurance and pension insurance will be paid, if combined. On the other hand, the cost of introducing new information systems is equally high due to the ever-necessary need for new information systems. So we are talking about significantly smaller numbers, as mentioned earlier by my colleagues. Therefore, personal supplementary work can be done if a so-called valuation is obtained, but in the issuance of a single valuation, let me remind you, Ipes, Durs, Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs, Administrative Units and supervisory function also include numerous inspections: the market, financial, labour, traffic and other inspectors on the ground will check every letter on paper and, in particular, whether or not someone is registered. And if it's not properly registered, if it's not properly unlocked in the relevant registry, then it's hard for him. As we say, not only will the new regime, in our view, not bring the expected results, but we believe that it will even be the other way around. In view of the additional administration involved in the performance of personal complementary work, I think that the interest in such work will be very small and that it will deter many from working legally, because their administrative routes will be too complicated to do so, and they will rather do the job as they do now, without any relevant papers and without paying the country contributions and taxes. I'd like to draw attention to one more item. Previously, it was said that in the direction of a principle, each work counts on contributions to all types of work, including personal supplementary work, from which appropriate contributions to pension and health insurance are to be paid after a new period of so-called retirement. Of course, all those who pay these contributions should benefit in the end as beneficiaries of the pension system. It would be very interesting to know and see how this will actually take place in practice. In fact, the contributions are extremely small, the contributions are 2 euros for health insurance and 7 euros for pension insurance, to one of the values. Of course, we do not know much more because the government has not presented this in explanation, nor is it clear from the law itself how these contributions will be paid. Once a month, every date, what if there were more people involved. There are a lot of these open issues and a contribution of €2 and a contribution of €7 will not be able to resolve the pension insurance issue for the person who will perform the personal supplementary work. Not to mention that any interference with such comprehensive systems as the pension system and the health system with certain partial laws harms this parental legislation and needs to be avoided widely. Regardless of all these criticisms, which we have quite a bit of, we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the law is worthy of further consideration, because we all want to fight against the grey economy together and make some positive, some positive movement in this area, so we will support or we will not oppose that we continue the process. Of course, we expect the government, from the proposaler, to supplement the law so that it can be implemented effectively and without unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles and without additional financial burdens for all those involved in this process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u141	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. The first person to sign up was Minister Anja Kopač Mrak. For her please prepare Mrs Kristina Valenčič, then Mr Joseph Horvat and then Mag. Stefan Tessel. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u142	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Good day to you! I might explain a few things about personal complementary work, which was also the most discussed in the introductory presentations. Personal complementary work, as now proposed under the law, would try to present in terms of what is currently in force with regard to personal complementary work. You know, in our system, if I say so, we've had the possibility of personal complementary work introduced for quite some time. The way we have it now is that an individual has to apply to the administrative unit, that he has to report to Durs three times a month on his income. Approximately 8 thousand people have been reported in administrative units to perform personal supplementary work. Today he actually pays what he pays, the contracting entity, which is the one who orders a personal supplemental job. Then it depends very much on the person performing the personal supplementary work or applying, on the other hand, or then reporting this income to Durs, which is his basic duty, every three months. Personal supplementary work has also been carried out by intervention law in the field of health care in this system in such a way as to take place from personal work, i.e. from 1. 2. From Saturday onwards, contributions to health insurance are also paid at monthly level. In view of the existing ones, it is necessary for an individual, an individual, to help the family – because you need to know that the rules set out in the rules, which are personal complementary works, are primarily those we do at home, and therefore are essential to ensure effective control, because we know that inspectors can't go to private premises without a special court decision – so this person who helps you at home to clean up your home will now have to pay his health insurance contributions through the REK form. In view of these current administrative resources, you can assess what the proposal before you is with this law. We wanted to put in place a system with this personal complementary work as administratively non-implementing for people, however, that each work should count, but in particular in a way that provides some incentive for people who are doing this work today, mostly in black homes and our homes, to give them some stimulus, so that they will also report this personal complementary work. That's why we've set up a system of valuations or a voucher system. This voucher system is actually a novelty in our system because, for the first time, a natural person pays contributions through this value. There's been a lot of negotiations here with Durs and Zpiz about how this is going to happen, but for the individual who pays for this valuation, everything is done through the system. An individual only via the E-government, but if he does not have access to it, he can go to the administrative unit, buy a voucher for his contractor and contractor and then automatically withdraw these contributions. We wanted to simplify this so that in the flat-rate amount we fixed this, for pension contributions it was €7 because we calculated on the basis of the minimum wage of one day of contributions, so we fixed the amount of this flat-rate and similarly the contribution of €2 for health insurance. Above all, this value is as simple as possible, so we do not pay 36,85 of each value of the account we received, but on a monthly basis it is paid by the customer of the service. Some questions were also raised when we talked about these values, why doesn't the contractor himself do this, why does the contractor, when we as the contracting authority pay him money – now the blocks that will be numbered will be required, not only at the bookstore – why do we separate this obligation? We thought it would be easier to establish a control system. If I, as a contracting authority for an individual who provides a specific home aid service to me in the context of personal supplementary work, pay EUR 10 per month, this is seen in the system. Durs is connected to this system. And if an XY individual has a very large amount in his personal name of paid vouchers, it means that he will have relatively recognised entitlements from pension and disability insurance, which I think is a plus for these people to report this personal supplementary work, but of course Durs is one indicator if this person has reported, which is his duty, Durs' income from this title, and he has reported, I don't know, 20 euros only in the last six months that Durs can decide to make a review of what happens to these incomes. This was one of the reasons why we separated. And also because when a client pays for a fortune teller, today, for example, you have someone doing this personal extra work at your home, and you can't know if he's really registered and he's done anything in the sense that he signed up for his job. We do not have records on administrative units of those performing personal supplementary work, data are not public. You may be approached by someone who says he has a personal supplemental job. You're going to have to try very hard to see if it's true. And you can pay for it in good faith, but it's not any of it, he was actually working in black. By establishing this value book, you have fulfilled your obligation as a contracting authority. And yet this system is still so, regardless of the fact that we introduced the novelty into the system, and it was not easy, for three months we spent, we had quite a number of conversations with Durs, Zpiz and also the Institute of Health Insurance at the end when it was added that this would run as smoothly and administratively unburdenedly as possible. And now it's suggested that the person doing the personal follow-up work can apply through the iPad, so electronically, if he doesn't have access, he goes to the administrative unit as he did. Apes is now obliged to keep this record publicly, so that whoever orders this service sees and within this system selects the person for whom the voucher is paid via the e-government. Very easy, you can also do this card business, that is, pay the contributions of these nine euros, and then this voucher applies to this person for one month and then you pay him alone, and now he has to report for six months — in the current system for three months. I still believe, I'm not going to say that the system is perfect, but I think it's much better than it is today, and it brings benefits for everyone. Above all, we are aware that this personal supplemental work, working at home to help protect children, helping with household chores is very large and is mainly carried out in black. That is why we wanted to give this encouragement to people so that they would still have a partial right to pension and disability insurance. And here there is no other situation for the PPIZ, such as the PPIZ-2, which was adopted under the mandate of the Visionary when it was stipulated that contributions from both business and copyright contracts were being paid. We are here because we did not want to burden these forms of work with full contributions, because we were aware that if we did, they would pay, as they paid from copyright and business, full contributions, that it would really mean that people would not be willing to pay for it and would achieve a counter-effect. That's why we've been looking for this solution in the buffer, which is kind of a novelty in our system. Now with certainty to say how this will be implemented and then captured, there is too much at this point, but we are always committed to keeping a close eye on these things. There was also a talk about the cost of implementation and how much of these contributions we will receive. Here we need to know that the cost of establishing is unique, and these inflows are annual. And it's also interesting when we started talking about this form of personal supplemental work in July, a lot of people applied because they didn't know it before. That is also how it is our duty, especially at the Ministry, to inform people through the media about these legal forms of work. We will be happy to explain further to all those who have concerns about the wolf system that we have introduced in the personal complementary work. But if we compare it to the situation that is now, I still think we have found a solution that is not that the administrative system itself would burden beyond measure. It is clear, however, that when you pay for something, you need to establish a system so that it is possible to pay it. This is the greatest novelty of this marriage. Other things have already been predestined many times. Nevertheless, I would like to say that I am happy to be Minister of Labour, that the government as a whole has been engaged in the fight against the grey economy. Yes, Mrs Tomc, the facts are that 93% of the grey economy actually means tax evasion, and this law does not solve tax evasion. The government, however, is working in other areas with other measures, as well as with the reorganisation of the tax and customs administrations, to tackle matters. It seems to me that, in the past, we have over and over again pointed only to the Law on the Prevention of Work and Employment as a key measure within the grey economy. Now we have only come to realize that this is a small fraction of what is the whole problem, which, I agree, is an absolute non-issue of accounts. It's the subject of other laws. This law only clearly lays down the powers of inspection, the powers of those supervisory authorities, and also of rustling, i.e. those who do not have registered activities, which is mainly the case with representatives of small enterprises who are under unfair competition. These penalties, which have been in force so far, because I think that if you paid €280 in half, it was €140, then you can imagine how dissuasive those penalties were. That's how we raised those penalties. And even when the Act on Offences was opened, we raised it because this parental law sets the greatest limits for natural persons. Here, too, we had to wait for changes in that law so that we could properly raise it. Basically, this punishment is the most elevated, and the other penalties are raised by about 25%. But we wanted to, so it was an important additional element of this law, which is a personal complementary work, because we wanted to give people the opportunity to carry out these forms of work legally, so that we do not just go with criminal policy. And especially with personal extra work, these people who are doing this work will have the opportunity that when they are old, they will still get a month or so of retirement, which is why they retire earlier, which I think is very important to them. It is important, not only that people can carry out their work legally, but it also seems important to me to the contracting authorities that they can legally order this form of work. We have also spoken with the unions, because it is not least necessary to stress that this law is fully supported by the social partners, and we have also taken the initiative of the social partners to engage in this dialogue, because the previous solution was to introduce only social taxes and then to fund the cash registers, but I think it is better that we encourage people to pay their contributions to pension and disability insurance and health insurance and that we all have more. At the same time, a certain attitude of people towards these contributions and the rights they are entitled to. Nevertheless, it is time to say, through the debate, what a complement, and certainly thank all the parliamentary groups that you have expressed that you will support the law in this first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u143	Thank you very much. There is a general debate between Members and Members, and the first of the Members has the floor of Mr Marko Pavlisic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the hour, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr Presecnik said well and highlighted the problems associated with what is black work and what is not. This was once very widely explained and all the problems associated with it, and because of that, the then proposed law fell at the referendum, at least my feeling was that it was one of the main points that made it fall. However, that solution to the law had one very happy dictatorship, which I do not see in this bill. In particular, it said: "It is considered to be a black work to be a remunerated activity or work." So the emphasis is on the word "remunerated". There is no word in this current law dictated by the law, which opens up a lot of things, whether when I do something free of charge, whether it's black or not. In that dictatorship proposed by the Social Democratic Party at the time, if I recall correctly, it was the word. And this one seems very crucial to me, and it would be nice if we brought it into this marriage as well. It is perfectly clear that if something is done free of charge, if I help either a fellow Member, or a neighbour who is three blocks away, or anyone, that it is completely clear that it is not a black job. If I go to the second point or the essence of this law, the word "each work counts". I must say that I strongly support this term or phrase. It is right that every work counts, but each work should count the same. What do we get here with this principle of complementary personal work? We get that if someone makes 2 000 euros in six months or a few euros less, if we go to the right account, they will pay between 9 and 54 euros in contributions. However, if this person earns 2 000 euros through regular work, there will be thousands of 300 euros in contributions paid here. The factor in one way and another goes close to 100. We're talking about a 50 to 100-fold factor, which here clearly shows that it's a complete imbalance, and that's simply unacceptable. If each work counts, each work should count the same. Nor is there any reason why this lower workload would be justified in this way. We all know about this problem with so-called Apache workers, where the Constitutional Court found that the relief they have is not well-founded enough and that there are no serious reasons why it would be, so we also changed it and unfortunately put them on extra charge. And here we don't have that good argument. We are already talking about the amount of EUR 2 000 per half-year. It is said that in one year someone can make 4,000 euros in additional work. There's a lot of people here who would be very happy to do that. However, the contributions associated with this are significantly lower than they would have been at regular work. While this flat-rate principle of these contributions is very positive, it is simple in some ways. But we still have to be aware here that he's unfair and unjust. The e-approach we introduce through this law, and it's supposed to go like this, is definitely one big plus, but it doesn't take away those other concerns that I mentioned. In the very explanation of the law are also cited examples from Belgium and Croatia, where there are some similar solutions related to the vouchers, but if I have correctly explained the explanation where this is not exactly explained, it is essentially the principle that when you buy a voucher, you will in fact buy a value with which you pay for this work. Which is fundamentally different from what we have. If you pay in this way, it is perfectly clear that whoever did this work for us is stimulated to get it because it is his payment. With us, however, this is just an additional payment of our contributions and is more intended to obtain some records of these people being hunted and punished if they are caught. One set of questions has been raised with these values. For example, if someone has one hour of instruction per month, it will mean 12 values within 12 months. However, if all these 12 hours of instruction were to take place in that week before graduation or those two weeks before graduation, one valuation would be sufficient. This means that at least from the point of view of the contributions, an individual will pay 12 times more if it is in such a way as if it were in a different way, where the payment for the work done is exactly the same. Here we are again at that imbalance that I have already talked about, which is one of the major problems of this current proposal. And as already mentioned, what if someone were to train five people at the same time? And they settle for a single price, they say they pay the same price, whether it's one, there's two, there's three, there's four, or there's five. However, the issue of contributions is reversed. You have to pay the same thing five times again. We are thus opening up more questions here than we are closing them, and from this point of view this proposal is simply not good. Not to mention that when an individual decides to give an instruction, he must well know whether he is registered on the other hand for additional work. I'm talking about training, it could also be any other work that comes under the extra work. Whether it is registered for complementary work, whether it may be registered with the afternoon espionage, whether it may be registered as espé or maybe it does so through an agency, through a company. Someone who wants to have this service needs to be very well informed about who is on the other hand and how it is registered, that he can order this service at all, and that he is ready to do so. Already mentioned were the costs associated with an estimated €200,000 in the draft law, the revenue at the level of contributions is expected to be around €300,000 per year. If we add to this all the work involved in the drafting of this law and all the things we are dealing with here and all the things involved, see, I simply doubt that this is worth the economic aspect as well. In Slovenia, we have another problem that young people are alerting us to. Otherwise, it's a dirty job. This has grown considerably in recent years, and there are different forms of contentious work. This is a matter of working for a certain time, it is a so-called espection where people are forced to open espaes to do their work, it is also a work through an author's contract, which is often not justified, it is a work through a student service or an abuse of a student's work, because that right student work is right, it is an agency work, and a number of other forms of it are happening in Slovenia, and we are reminded of it mainly from the point of view of the younger population. And here, Madam Minister, I find you disproportionate work. Let's go solve some complementary work, some minority compared to all these problems faced mainly by young people fleeing from one form of chaotic employment in another form, instead of taking this problem seriously here, which is painful for the vast majority of people, in short, to open up that basic problem that we have, and this is the law of the U.S.D. All these forms that are taking place, espasing and so on and so on, are due to the extreme rigidity of labour legislation. And all of this is a response to the situation we have in this area in Slovenia. Madam Minister, we need to open this matter before we open it, before we solve it, we will get out of this sooner. The explanation of this law also gives a clear indication of which procedures are being terminated and which administrative burdens are being lifted. That's well explained. Unfortunately, there is not a word on all the new administrative obstacles and procedures we are introducing. And it is with this related complementary work that we introduce them. So maybe at the end of the explanation we would put this in and then get a much clearer picture as to that. And to the end. Madam Minister, the Prime Minister has made a clear commitment that the coalition will not introduce new taxes and contributions and will not increase old taxes and contributions. This is also one of the fundamental commitments in the new coalition agreement or coalition agreement. However, this is precisely the case: the introduction of a new contribution. And that's why, and especially because of what I've said before, unfortunately my decision can't be any different than it will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Anja Kopač Dark asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u146	Then I'll try not to sound anymore. I think one thing needs to be said in the beginning, explained and clarified. I'll start at the end. You mentioned the Labour Relations Act. I never said we wouldn't open it, but I think it's best that we evaluate the changes we're making. The law entered into force, I think, on April 14th. I think it's right to make an assessment and to do so by those who are qualified to do so. This assessment will be discussed by the end of March and on these grounds. Since you mentioned the different burdens of different forms of work, this is not provided for by the Labour Relations Act. The Labour Relations Act does not lay down the basis for the payment of contributions, nor does it. With regard to the stiffness of our Slovenian labour law, however, we are, following amendments to the OECD Working Relations Act on the OECD countries' Index of Protection. Now it is a question of who we want to compare ourselves to, but with regard to these basic parameters, these movements have been achieved with amendments to the Labour Relations Act, where internal flexibility within enterprises has increased, in particular, between different units. It was an increase in the so-called functional flexibility, less possibly numerical, which was also significantly short notice and lower discharges. But O.K. I never said that I was not ready to talk on the basis of non-hanalism, but I always assumed that social dialogue was important to me, because I might have learned something from the past and would not want to repeat the mistakes I had made in the past. I have also pointed out several times that I think it is imperative to draw up a basic law, a single law on insurance bases from which contributions are paid. As the fact is that in the past contributions have been cited in various laws, the amount of contributions is paid for pension, health insurance and for employment or unemployment and parental protection. That is why I think it is right to talk about where we pay our contributions, how much I agree that the price of work, not just flexibility, affects how individual forms of work are perceived by employers. Nevertheless, we cannot put all the forms of work available today in the same basket. For example, personal supplemental work differs from afternoon’s espionage by one thing, which is crucial. You can set up an afternoon espa for anything, while the personal supplemental work is precisely defined by the rules as to what you can do it for. And another element is, according to the law, that the limit on how much money a person can get from personal work is approximately EUR 1,000 800 per 6 months. This is clearly replaced and is also justified in some way by different treatments and flat-rate contributions, because you cannot compare the amount if someone gets 2 000 euros, how much contributions they pay, and the one that can get a maximum of 1,000 800 euros in income. Personal complementary work is basically a very different form. Why? Because it is also necessary to have a view of what this means for other forms of work and how these different forms of work are intertwined. And with this evaluation of the ZDR, we will also show how many espies there are, what happened to the commercial works contracts and the like, to assess the situation in the labour market as a whole. I agree that the controversial forms – and this is one of the goals also published yesterday and in the public debate given by the reform of the student work, where the concept of "every work counts", where we agreed with the students that full contributions will be paid for the pension and disability insurance and also the rights recognised therein. In this proposal, however, we have taken into account the burden on employers. I will not comment so much on the provisions of the coalition treaty. I agree that we are talking about raising contributions and taxes, but it is also necessary to evaluate what this means, whether it means 9 euros, when it will be such a burden for individuals today, especially the middle layer, to serve personal work, those who provide services at home, or if we want to do it in black and with this work we agree in black and realize that it is a problem, but we do not do enough. About the suggestions. They are different in Croatia and Belgium. The Belgian system was in such a way that an account for this service was also paid with the voucher. It was because the system was too expensive that the Belgians withdrew from it, which was financed by European funds. In Croatia, however, similar systems have been introduced or contributions paid with valuations have been introduced, not an account for the entire service. I certainly believe that certain improvements in the debate are still possible. This is usually the case, and it is also the case that when we open one area, it is a personal complementary work today to open the debate on all other forms of work and the problems we have in the labour market. I agree that it would be right for us to come up with the whole thing and then we'll sort it out, but in some past period we've been doing this, and then one thing, one marriage falls, falls apart. So it is important that we know which way we are going, and then we complement each other with the existing forms that we have in our system. We already have a personal complementary work, complementing it only with a voucher system, i.e. with a value that is, as far as possible, administratively non-deployable. It does, however, mean that an individual has to pay this value via e-government. But he can pay with a card, the simplest, and then all contributions are made automatically, and it's not a matter of an individual. If we would like to see more equalization in terms of income, as it has been exposed, to pay contributions, it is only possible for individuals to pay through the REK form these contributions, which would, of course, be more administratively burdensome than if we had such a proposal today as is before you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the word, and the Magi are preparing for him. Stefan Tessel and Mag. Ivan Vogrin. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u148	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Madam Minister with colleagues, dear colleagues and colleagues! You have spoken to many of my predecessors about the coalition treaty, of course I will not interfere with your coalition treaty, but as a citizen I wish I could see the light of the world once. And if there really will be a sincere intention to eliminate the grey economy, then I will confess to you, so much more if you succeed in reality. What matters is reality, it's not just words written on paper. Of course, I am not making illusions and probably no one among us, so that this law on prevention of work and employment will blacken out the black work. I'm sure that can't be true. I'm sure it's just one pebble in the mosaic, how do you actually limit the work to black and keep it to a minimum. And we, as we say, will not object to the construction of this mosaic, we will help to insert this pebble into the mosaic ourselves, and I hope that we will manage to instill employment in the black one day. Surely various factors contribute to the growth of work in black. Surely there is a very important business environment here, we have already mentioned labour legislation, the Labour Relations Act, surely there is a very important tax policy here, and of course we must not forget personal responsibility. We in Novi Slovenija pay a lot of attention to personal responsibilities. In fact, it starts to grow up right in the family, in the education phase, it must be the most important thing in the family, we talked about so much more about at the previous item on the agenda. And now perhaps one slightly different approach. I'm going to ask myself the question of the social state. Surely 90 of us have 90 different answers, what is the state of the social state in Slovenia. Some of you will certainly say that we do not have a social state that has died, so of course I cannot agree, some of you will have other answers. People, of course, understand the social state differently. Some say, "Hold on, look, I'm here, now give me, give me something on the plate." Because of their pride, some will not be able to ask for social assistance and so on, while others ask for work, exclusively for work. Here's what comes to mind. You've all met Pedro Opeka, who taught his people not to ask for bread, but to work, "Pater, give us the work." And let's see what the benefits are that a capable person can expect to work without wealth and income. I'll just count them and then tell you the total amount: social assistance, emergency social assistance, compulsory health insurance, additional health insurance, Red Cross, Karitas, subsidy for renting rooms or apartments. If we draw the line, it's €470,475. And now we're wondering if with 475 Euros of total material aid, someone can spend a month. The beggars are very mysterious, but what kind of honest statement says he's working in black. The country supports such a form of work through social legislation, because it is not possible to survive social assistance alone – those are the words of the social worker. And we can look at other countries. Germany, as our most important economic partner, is also dealing with problems of working in black, with problems of the grey economy. But where do various analysts agree, why is the work in Germany steadily reduced? This is attributed to a good situation in the regular labour market and radical labour market reforms that have facilitated the legalisation of work in black. The so-called mini-services, paid from 400 or 500 euros a month, have reduced social and pension benefits precisely to obtain cleaners, gardeners, and all others who previously worked in households and elsewhere in black. The higher taxes and social benefits, the greater red tape, the sooner people retreat to work in black. It's an axiom, I believe. I therefore mentioned the importance of tax legislation earlier. We have also announced in New Slovenia that work will increase in black by raising the VAT rate. That's quite clear, I could explain it on the case, but unfortunately I'm running out of time. Madam Minister, I will give you one initiative. I hope the Vice President doesn't stop me, not directly related to the law. Look, it's happened to us and there's a natural disaster happening to us, the icebreakers and so on, hundreds of thousands of forests are destroyed. Would it not be worth considering putting in place a system of public works to attract the unemployed to help clean these forests? It may sound naive, maybe too dilettarian, but there's a lot of work here for those who want to work. But the registered unemployed are probably the ones who want to work. I'd really like to hear your opinion here. It's really not about marriage, but it's about work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Madam Minister has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u150	I'll be brief. I'm just coming from Postojna today to be on the ground. It's a terrible situation. I've been talking to the woodsmen. Look, people just send out into the woods because they're dangerous, even after they're cutting and cleaning these forests, it's not so simple that everyone can do it. Even those who are trained foresters, when these forest matter freezes away, are the problem with cutting that also weakens others, so that the cleaning of forests will be extremely dangerous. I understand this initiative for public works, but it is important to keep in mind the safety of people in particular. However, under such conditions it is also necessary to consider that people from the other end of Slovenia, where we are better off, should we need to activate them to help. We are trying to expand public works within the means we have. This year there will be 9,000, that is, once again more than last year, in the fields. I certainly know that there will be great work in the woods, too, but such simple things cannot go because the safety of the people who will do so is at risk. However, we certainly have a lot to do with what's going on with the country, with this greed, how we're going to redistribute ourselves and get there. It is now primarily thought and is mainly on the ground of service to provide electricity. She's still pretty much in the dark, and things are really getting tougher. So all praise goes to the people on the ground, the firefighters, and all the others who help people. However, once you have started, it seems really important to me that we help each other, the neighbor asks, and the situations are different in the field. The Centre for Social Work works, as well as help at home to everyone in Postojna were already unloaded yesterday. Our jobs, as we always have a lot of criticism, are still doing their job, but it is not easy for people.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The word has a Master Stephen Tisell.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u152	Good bye to all of you! Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we do not oppose or even support all the Government's actions and efforts in order to somehow reduce the black work or we are more in favour of preventing it. This requires quite a lot of other measures, which we have already heard from our fellow Members and colleagues who have presented their proposals. So we have to look at these people who are somehow forced or on one side, say those who have committed personal bankruptcy, they should not actually appear officially in the labour market. Then those who receive compensation lost their jobs. People count what they're worth. Or they get that, and they do a little black work, and they're pretty much better than the one who gets the minimum wage. They're not that small. As well as those who receive all these social benefits, they do not deserve to be included in some form of work relationship. With these values we only administratively complicate things again, because people are somehow subject to the fact that they want to work easily, practically and also behave. Even three years ago, we did not oppose this law on black work, we supported those instigators in the referendum because there was so much talk about neighbourhood aid and so on, so it had such a negative charge. Preventively, we might be able to help ourselves, as we have said many years ago, that every account, as we say, would count each work as social contributions, health and pension insurance. Every account should also count, especially in the services, although we know that we now have these preliminary income calculations, which are kind of very welcome, what Mr Simič did, but perhaps somehow we would attract people with such a root to collect, and from the hairdresser, and from the repair of the washing machine, and from the repair of the roofs and the like. If it is 24% of the grey economy, well, it's not just black work, it's also non-tax payments and the like, but it would be worth somehow using such instruments to hit all people, it's all those who pay taxes. However, if we had a small relief from the income tax, we would also collect these accounts, but on the other hand, we would also know something. Just sanctions, we know they don't work, there's got to be a carrot, it's something attractive for taxpayers. When I mentioned all these different categories of people, many of them lost their jobs, some have to have espies to be able to work with the employer, then many of them live with espionage to barely pay for their contributions, so that they don't even have to pay for their costs, but with other mechanisms they should also try to help these people. Of course, it's a basic honest job. But that is not the case, and they find it difficult to provide in today’s situation when they are losing jobs and jobs, not to create them again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The word is Master Ivan Vogrin. Behind him is Mrs Ludmila Novak, then Mrs Kristina Valenčič, Mr Borut Ambrožič. Here you go, Master Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Madam President. I have to keep on protecting myself. It'll just seem like it's not the topic I'm going to talk about. Because I'm gonna start a little bit on the other side. Look, we were recently sitting on the Defence Committee, and the documents show that soldiers make 700 and 800 euros. How can a man with 700 or 800 euros survive? Once again, if we live with dignity, let us lower our salaries to €700. And the soldiers said they were working in black in Austria. Yeah, where do they work? In Slovenia, as active members of the Slovenian Army, they cannot work. That means, but you don't think we're actually chasing our tail. That we're like a cat hunting our tail. The state has such wages for its employees, public servants, that they cannot survive. That's what they say how to do. Well, maybe we could play with it a little bit, work on the black, the secretary said work in the woods is dangerous. Every job is dangerous. Also sitting in a chair, the bureaucrats sit down and they start to get sore back. A lot of people who have a sitting job have problems with their spines, permanent injuries, and so on. But the worst part is if there's no work. And you know, the problem is that working in Slovenia is not worth it. Now we go on to the specific features of this law. High fines, criminal sanctions by forfeiture of property, strengthening inspection services and competences. Where are the reasons for the situation we are in? High wage burdens, abnormally high burdens, labour legislation, which is inflexible, because once the employer accepts it, it is virtually impossible to forgive it, but we do so in a law that we have recently adopted, pensioners, students, we limit overtime and so on. You know this is wrong. Then a large bureaucratic approach. Before hiring a worker, the employer must fill in a set of bureaucratic forms that are of no benefit to anyone. The measures taken so far have been as follows. An active employment policy that teaches this, I will tell you on the specific case of a lady who is a graduate economist. She was invited to work at the office, and she was taught to write petitions. Madam, who has a college education, is taught in the active policy of employment of writing requests. Wrong. I guess he can write. The laws adopted did not fundamentally change the reasons for us having a high level of unemployment and the consequences, as some colleagues have already said, of working in black. The tax hike and the contributions we've been witnessing over the past year are gasoline at the fire of a lot of black work. So that we don't hunt our tails anymore, we have to do three things for me. Reduce wage burdens on comparable European countries. Create a flexible labour market, so that when the company or employer has a job, he will hire the workers when he is out of work. Just like they have in Austria. And above all, red tape needs to be reduced. That would be measures, in my opinion, for us not to hunt our tail anymore. Maybe there's a thought for all of us, a well-known actor, Tadej Toš, who likes to be laughed at. In Finance it was written, a comparison between Switzerland and Slovenia. "They're working in Switzerland today, and we're sitting in Balkan Switzerland, and we want them to be free tomorrow, because then the weekend comes." Thus, the author of the statement set the mirror primarily for politicians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Ms Kristina Valenčič has the floor. Mr Borut Ambrožič, mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat and Mr Ivan Hršak. Here you go, Mrs. Valenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u156	Thank you for your word. Let me begin by commending the work done and all the efforts made by both the Minister and the entire ministerial team, which, at the time of this Government, has produced a number of positive measures, both in the field of social and family policy, which I am pleased to support. Today's novelty also brings a number of positive measures, such as sharpening and expanding control of black work and transferring it to the customs administration, to provide a basis for taking away the assets obtained by working in black. However, I have had a very serious problem with the introduction of the evaluation system in person since the beginning, and the Minister herself knows this very well. When do people go after work in black? At a time when they are forced to do so because they feel financially threatened when the supervisory authorities do not perform their functions, when they think in society that work is not worth doing, that it is not worth doing, and that something is perfectly normal for the state to bring around all segments of the country when we have a complicated system of reporting work and charging duties. And in such a situation today, our society is also sorry. Therefore, I am convinced that the problem must be tackled at its origin, people must be stimulated to work, but not made it difficult for them to do their job, to kill their desire to work. I am convinced that occasional casual work, such as snow breaking, lawn mowing, short-term protection of children at home, instruction, household assistance, kneeling or gathering blueberries will not solve the problem of working in black. I am not saying that this segment of work should be overlooked and allowed to abuse. This segment also needs control and upgrades, but this is in the direction of simplification and elimination of bureaucracy. The State must provide a simple system of job registration, a simple system of charging contributions and taxes so that people understand and are aware of all the obligations they have. We have too many exceptions. Let's just say this law. Personal complementary work, neighbourhood assistance, short-term work, complementary activities on the farm, humanitarian work. If we look at a little bit wider, espa, afternoon espa, a lot of different bases for pension and social contributions. All of this brings confusion among people and discourages people from registering their activities. You know, I have time in mind and all I'm talking about is personal complementary activities, so there will be no mistake, so I'm talking about citizens who are in addition to their regular status, whether they are students, employees, unemployed, pensioners, they want to make their financial position a little bit more positive, some of them even ease the social difficulties with their personal work. I am convinced that we should seek solutions in simplifying all these different forms of work, simplifying the process of registering and paying contributions and taxes, deregulation of individual activities and professions, introducing a flat-rate system and strengthening field control. So that I don't get it wrong, I don't support black work. I myself am trying to raise my children with encouragement and example and not with sanctions. Thus, the country should also take a path in the fight against black work. Mr Horvat says repeatedly, politics stands and falls on ethics, I say, work on black stands and falls on bills.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr Borut Ambrožič would have had the word, but he is not here. The next one has the word mag. Katarina Hotchevar, who wouldn't discuss it. Then Mr. Franz Jurša here has the floor. Dr. Andrej Črnak Megličev and Mrs. Romana Tomc are also preparing to follow him. Here you go, Mr. Jursha.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Throughout two of my mandates in the National Assembly, we have devoted a lot of words to this particular area, aware that this is one of the key problems. Especially at the time in which we are currently living, this is during the time of the economic crisis. When I think about how and how to give every opportunity to those who want to do so, and at the same time take measures to control how people will work, then, in the first place, I think that we have to have the same vat for all the structures of people. This means whether it is permissible or not to work in such a way or otherwise, it must be the same for all. This is said to be the case that some groups, which in some ways are doing a possible simpler job, should not be privileged, but we must allow as few bureaucratic barriers as possible to all those who want to work. If we are completely honest and realistic when faced with certain professions and needs to, for example, get a certain job as a user or user of this work, for example, in the area of craftsmanship, we often find ourselves simply and simply unable to find appropriate jobs in our environment even at this time and in the area in which we are currently living when we are saying that we have a huge number of unemployed people. The grey economy, other forms of overlap or avoidance of obligations, if measured in size, is extremely large money. We are talking about eight to ten billion euros per year, compared to the annual budget, we can see that this is one whole budget. Of course, the data is different. Various figures and percentages are discussed, for example, some also talk about around 17 to 25% of the gross social product. But in the final phase, it doesn't matter now, my fellow Shirtzel with my head shows me that this is not accurate information. The data is different and we look at it at different addresses and then we try to make our own conclusions. Probably no one knows exactly how much we actually have in Slovenia. This phenomenon is, frankly, strongly rooted and requires long-term and hard work, of course, to eradicate it over the years. The grey economy is reflected in a multitude of negative effects. I mean mainly in the absence of tax revenue, income in pension, health, social treasury. That's why the state is forced to raise taxes. With taxes, we can sort this out in some way. In unfair competition and in the over-average access of individuals to public services. Here, of course, I mean schools, kindergartens, health care, roads. In the coalition in this composition, we were aware and aware of the gravity of the problem, which is why the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities responded and prepared a proposal for a solution to the problem with the new law. We must say, however, that we do not like to talk about the level of sanctions – I myself have advocated that criminal policy must be such that people will not be too affected or that everyone who violates it will be equally affected. We are never going to get some real average punishment, because for someone with very low incomes, actually punishment at some level is huge, and for another maybe it means much less. But if we do not make order in this area and also properly regulate sanctions, then this matter cannot be effective in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mrs. Romana Tomc, you have the floor. We're almost done here, yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u160	Yeah, I guess we're already at the end, considering it's my turn, but thank you so much again. I would like to say one more final sentence, a conclusion based on what I heard in the debate from other colleagues, and also an explanation given by the Minister as a proposal for this law. But let me also find out in the introductions, as my colleague Marko Pavlisič has already found, which is part or part of this coalition, that we have not yet made a good sail in the new year, and the coalition is already in breach of one of its repeated thesis and findings and, if you want, the vow to Slovenian citizens and citizens: we will no longer raise taxes. This is the law that brings exactly that. Compulsory benefits shall be raised in the form of contributions to the so-called personal supplementary work. It's nothing but a finding. And if the minister or representatives of the government say that this is the way to go, there is always an excuse why we don't want to do something that we don't want to do. The second conclusion would be that this thesis or repetition is constantly in the context of paying contributions, that each work considers that something in the pension system counts for us in the healthcare system, in which case it does not hold, although it is repeatedly repeated by some. Because I would only endure if we changed it from "every work counts" to "every value counts." For it does not count what is in the back as a valuer, it does not count how many hours he has worked according to this value, it does not count how much he has earned; none of this counts. It counts how many values someone has. Tell me what logic this has to do and what this has to do with repeating that each work counts. It counts how many values will be sold, and that's all. And of course, it doesn't matter how much work is done, because these values don't necessarily have to be realized. They can be empty, unused. And the third conclusion or the summary, the Minister has also given me in that part of my thinking, because I have repeatedly reiterated that we need to know very well what we really want to achieve with this law, how we want to pursue the grey economy, what a gray economy is. And the minister somehow confirmed that, if I recall correctly, she used a percentage of 93% or just over 90% of the grey economy is non-taxation. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Tax evasion is no grey economy, tax evasion is a tax evasion. And when we pour this pure wine, we will see that the gray economy that we want to pursue with this law is something very different that we want to present today. And what the proponent tried to infect or enable people to make more personal use of complementary work is due to the major administrative obstacles associated with it – due to the mandatory registration at Apes, someone who would want to work or perform personal complementary work will first have to register at the Apes – electronic non-electronic, ask yourself if he will not be able to do it electronically, he will have to go to the administrative unit. Then someone who will benefit from his service will have to buy a valuable. Then they will have to connect, the Ministry of Labour, which will oversee this on one side, and the Ministry of the Minister, if the law makes it more clear how this business, operation, functioning with the evaluators will take place, you will not have to hold your head in disrespect. [[…]] Explain as you need to, so that everyone understands. Believe me, I understand roughly how it is or is supposed to be, and your ridicule in this place is not appropriate. You will certainly have the opportunity to explain very carefully how this will take place if the law goes forward in the procedure. And I hope you have the right answers to convince us, all because I am not the only one, in case you haven't noticed, which I say will make administration and bureaucracy bigger, not smaller, as you say. I would really like to say that sometimes, when the opposition supports principled solutions, which we support, I initially said that we support our efforts not to oppose this law, that you are at least so right as to try to listen to the proposals we have. We warn you that this method of valuation is not properly regulated. And we call on you, and we will contribute with our solutions and suggestions that this part of the law will be better regulated. And there's no need for reprisals in this place. And you forgot to mention something else, but I think it was just a lapsus or something that doesn't matter at this point in time, where this personal complementary work differs from other forms of work, such as a sole entrepreneur or anything. This is a work that can only be done between natural persons; the contracting entity cannot be a legal person; it cannot be an individual independent entrepreneur. That's how there's a big and important difference here. So we only talk about the work that is done between natural persons. This is a very, very small scale of our economy. When we use these billions of numbers, it is right – I agree that, according to some data, they can also be quite correct and true, but we need to be aware of something: the numbers we use, the billions of lost traffic, taxes or anything else, we do not solve with this bill, not with this law. We can solve these numbers in an area called tax control. Therefore, what we are about to adopt in connection with this law would be good if it were really easy for us to achieve any effect at all, because otherwise, if we complicate things more than necessary, there will be no minimal effect. This minimum effect has been assessed by the Government itself in the draft law under the financial consequences, where it says that if three thousand people are included in the scheme, the financial impact will be around EUR 300,000 at the annual level in the form of multiple paid contributions to pension insurance and health insurance. And that's it. And nothing else. We support that, too. Each euro is important, especially if this euro is intended to increase the social security of those who, by themselves, work in some other more normal, cannot afford better paid forms. And because they cannot afford it, they will use the form of so - called personal complementary work. All right. But let us be honest and say what we want to accomplish and what we will actually accomplish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Would you like a word with the government's representative? Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u162	Thank you. I certainly didn't want to be rude to the opposition or in any way, but it seems to me that the thing when I repeat it or when I explain one thing, that then I take the same arguments again, that I haven't made myself clear enough, that I can explain again, just sometimes, don't get me wrong, sometimes it seems to me that some people don't want to hear what we say, no matter what we say. I don't want to be insulting, I'm not implying anything, so people can make up their own minds about what it is. With regard to personal supplemental work, I thank you for pointing out that it can only be performed between natural persons. However, as you have put it this way, it should also be pointed out that, if this is the case, in Article 12, the production of domestic and art products can also be sold to legal persons, so that there may be no confusion if we are already very precise. I still believe that the payment of a voucher via an e-government, through a system that will be very simple, and when this system is automatically paid by the individual when the individual pays for the individual, that then automatically behind the processes agreed upon, the information systems, these 9,7 euro points to the ZPIZ, to the name of the person for whom the valuation is paid, and to the Institute of Health Insurance. This is agreed between the institutions, so this link between e-government, Durs and PIZ and the Institute of Health Insurance, the IMF in this matter is not back up, we have spent a lot of time agreeing that this is happening without the individual knowing how this is happening, and this is the essence of the information systems. Therefore, the payment of this value means all that is accomplished with regard to the payment of these contributions to real accounts. It was not easy to agree with Durs, because this is the first time we have established that a natural person pays for a lump sum. That's not what it was until now. All we talk about then, if an individual had to pay for this, is a fixed path through the REK form on a monthly basis, which would be much more complicated than an administrative proposal for this. I can agree that some of you oppose the introduction of a value book, that you are taking some of you as an additional unnecessary cost of these nine euros paid by the contracting authority to pay a partial contribution to the pension and disability insurance of those persons who are performing personal supplementary work. I can take a hint, and I understand. The views are different. Not, however, please, point out that the system we have set up is administratively burdensome. Because it's not. We have put a lot of effort into the fact that these information processes are running behind something that the individual doesn't care about and does not care about. And the system will work. Only by paying EUR 9 over a card will you ensure that these contributions are credited to the right address. I have already told you why we decided to divorce, who pays for the contributions — that the contracting authority will pay for it. Because of the fact that people would not, because we know that those who carry out personal complementary work are those who are not well-standing as usual and that every euro is important to them, we have given this additional cost to the contracting authority, which I believe is that, because we will also ensure the legal provision of this service, this cost will not be essential to him. And we went to the minimum of minimum costs and also administrative burdens. And it's already in the system so that an individual has to walk to the unit administration, apply, and as a contracting entity I don't know if an individual is doing and is really applying for a personal follow-up job. Now you're going to apply to Ipes, there's going to be a public record, where we're going to see who's registered and who isn't, Durs is going to get, who's being paid the values, this person is going to have to report on his income once and for half a year to Durs and Durs will have a mechanism with this to make it easier to carry out control. I am not saying that through this system we will save the grey economy, that this law on job prevention and employment will blacken up the problem of the grey economy, I never said that. And that's a fact. By means of this law, we try to prevent or limit work to black and employment. It is crucial that the powers of control and employment are taken over by CURS. That's crucial because they're mobile units. The second thing is that it still remains – and this is in the inspection law, which is also at the same time, it is not only the first hearing, it is envisaged that the inspector still has, if the inspector finds employment in black, the possibility of issuing a regulatory decision immediately so that it does not come, but it is not in my jurisdiction. That's what we tried to do there. On the other hand, work in black is already under the supervision of TIR and, in essence, from a market inspection, because this is basically a question of non-registration of activities, it is transferred to CURS. And again, that's the key. At the same time, we have also given some elements, what the inspectors are reporting to enable them to be controlled more easily. For example, it has been repeatedly pointed out that people who work under business and copyright contracts must have this contract with them because the inspector comes and says, yes, I have a contract at home, I don't know where I have it. The second thing about this is not regulated in this law, however, is the Mother Records Act, which we adopted at the end of the year, in which we touched on an important segment of work and employment in black, namely that the employer must apply for social insurance at the latest on the day of entry into the job. It has now been 8 days, and this, according to Eurofound data at European Union level, is a great moment to prevent work and employment in black. These are steps. There will be no solution, no golden wand, no magic wand, when we solve all the problems, but it is a step in this direction. But if individuals do not realize when we encourage work in black, by paying it, or on the other hand, individuals who agree to this form of work contribute to the long run. And since we know that these people are the most in pain at the end when they retire, when they can retire, we wanted to come across them mainly by paying some flat rates., we knew that we couldn't burden it with 8.85, like the household and the authors, we went to some flat. The proposal is, I will not argue, because I am aware that nothing is ideal, that it would not be possible to improve it yet, but I believe that the solution is better than the current regime.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u163	Thank you very much. That is how we came to the end of the debates. All the advertised debaters you wanted got your word. However, since we have some time left and this allows us Article 71 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask if anyone else would like a word in time-sharing. Here you go, Mr. Jazbec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u164	Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u165	You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u166	Very short. I just want to explain what I've heard today. Ms Tomc explained that it was a breach of the promise, that it was again a new tax or an increase in taxes. This isn't really about any new taxes. All you have to do is understand and look at the whole thing. If someone is now working under the Espoo or is the copyright contract, the contributions are higher. So it's the other way around. We're lowering this tax. It is also necessary to know the benefits of this. The employer, by funding this value, also has some security. The person is on the list, is in the system, including health insurance is paid with this, if anything happens, an accident at work, so we have to take this into account. The employer also has one of these. Retirement insurance shall be paid to him additionally. So it's really about smaller contributions and greater security. But it depends on what we compare it to. If you're comparing work to work in black, then it's a new tax because there's no tax on work in black. Well, in that case, that's true, yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mrs Romana Tomc also applied for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u168	Thank you very much again. I must say that my conclusion that the coalition breaks the promise and raises taxes is not so wrong if we take it in the context of the fact that the first coalition partner in the Civil Gazette, who himself has found it, said it, and, of course, this is true. That, Mr Jazbec, what you have now seen in relation to the comparison of the copyright contract, the business contract and the performance of this personal supplemental work regarding the reduction of contributions to essentially lower contributions is very, very far from the truth. The author's contract and the personal supplementary work are not comparable matters. The author's contract, the business contract, regardless of the arrangement, is still here. I would like to point out one more point in the end, however, because this claim is really being overused that the contributions paid under this heading will have some major consequences in our pension insurance and health insurance. They will not have these contributions because they are large, far too small to have any more important or at least worth mentioning. On the other hand, look, our pension system is very complicated. So I'll try to make it simple. It doesn't matter, but it's very simplified how many contributions you've paid. But it's important on which basis these contributions were paid. Tell me what the basis is for paying the contributions from the value book. I didn't track her because she just wasn't there. Because we don't buy the number of hours, we don't buy the value of the service, we don't buy anything but paper, a coupon. And pay the client some contributions. So in this context, too, this way represents a great deviation from what we now know in the pension system. Without even dealing with content, whether these contributions are sufficient to actually provide us with some kind of security. And once again, if this is how you fulfill your commitments, the government, the coalition partners, as you meet with this law, when you introduce new contributions, because it is a new form of work, then I don't know what else we can put on those words that are given and spoken here. For with every next step you break your promise. Once again, I didn't find that out, I repeated it. Your coalition partner from the National List played this role before me. And I highly doubt he was wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u169	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. But there's no replica in this part of the time distribution. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide in half an hour in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the 21st meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 16:00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u170	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Please check the operation of the voting devices. We continue with the end of item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending the Law on State Administration as a matter of urgency. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 21. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Access to Public Information under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 3. 2. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving on to Article 2, under point 1. we are deciding on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2. Allow me to note that if this amendment is accepted, the amendment under number 2 becomes irrelevant. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 42. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under point 2, namely the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 2. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 3 and decide on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 3. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 5 – we are deciding on the amendment of the Coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 5. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 6 and decide on the amendment of Article 6 of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 42. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving to 8. Article, under point 1, we decide on the amendment of the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Slovenian People's Party to Article 8. Allow me to make a note here. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment under number two becomes irrelevant. An explanation of vote, on behalf of the parliamentary group? Excuse me? Procedural. Mr. Croat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! This Article 8 has already led to a procedural complication in the debate, where it has been discussed which amendment is closer and which is longer. We in the Slovenian Democratic Party appreciate your efforts, Mr President, to send us an explanation of these amendments, but we still believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that it would be right to consider this amendment, however we look, which is also supported by Minister Gregor Virant. It is an amendment that the freely available information of a public nature becomes also the information of the business entities referred to in Article 1a of this Law directly related to credits classified under international banking standards in group D and E, we are talking about late payment obligations over 90 days, and they have not been transferred to a bad bank. See, in accordance with Article 66, paragraph 5, we propose that the Legislative and Legal Service deliver its oral opinion at the meeting. We estimate that there has been a problem within the coalition because Minister Virant has started to advocate a different opinion than was coordinated within the coalition. We believe that our amendment is the one to be voted on first. Therefore, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, I propose that even though you have sent us your opinion, we also get an oral opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service at the meeting itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u172	Thank you for your procedural proposal. However, I would like to inform you that the text I sent you as President has been prepared by the Legal and Legal Service. And even if you ask for the views of the Legal and Legislative Service, I would just like to warn you that it will be the same text as you received from me. Procedural proposal, Mr. Croat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u173	Regardless of what your record was, where you refer to the Legislative and Legal Service, we believe that it would be right for all Members and Members to know about this opinion. Only this will be the basis for our further decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u174	We will try to ensure the presence of the Law-Legal Service to give you the same text as I sent you read it again, and we will take the time to do so if you demand the right position of the Law-Legal Service. I suggest we wait for a representative of the Legal and Legislative Service to join us. I have information that the Legal and Legal Service can join us in five minutes, so I'm adjourning the session until 16.20. We'll pick it up at 4:20.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u175	Dear Members and Members, please take your seats, we continue to work. During this time, we have been joined by Mr Božo Strle, who will also give us the position of the Legislative and Legal Service on the amendments tabled under Article 8. Mr. Strolle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u176	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I would just like to confirm that this explanation, which Mr President has signed, is entirely based on our opinion, is that it sums up our position, so I don't think I need to read it to you here as well. However, I would like to take this opportunity further to deny that any pressure on us would be exerted on this opinion. We have prepared this opinion entirely in our own professional opinion, so that there is no background here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u177	Thank you for the position of the Legal and Legal Service. Can we move on to a decision? Explanation of voice. I invite you to apply for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Dr Ljubica Jelusic will explain the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u178	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. The Group of Social Democrats opposes this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u179	Thank you. Mr Franz Bogovic will present or explain the vote on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u180	The Slovenian People's Party is a co-proposer of this amendment, so it is perfectly normal for us to support it. Let me give you an explanation for your support. We support, as we have already said in the debate, the law as a whole. With this amendment, this law would provide a qualitative supplement to allow those banks in which these contested claims have been transferred to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims to have access to those claims that have remained in banks for more than 90 days now. We think that this is an important step, because all of us who decide here have not been properly explained so far what was the methodology, how these claims were transferred from banks to bad banks to reduce, so we firmly believe that we would have an even better insight into these banks, where these claims can also remain because someone would have no interest in these controversial loans and these contested claims being made public. We are pleased that such a provision has also been supported by Minister Virant, who himself is the proponent of this law, as was said in the discussions with the parliamentary groups when we discussed this amendment with him, believes that this is a quality correction and therefore supports this amendment. I hope the amendment gets the majority. We now have a business complication because there are two amendments to the same article, and according to the position of the Legislative and Legal Service, the vote of this amendment is also a reason not to vote on the second amendment. That is why, in the debate itself, I have already mentioned this possibility if today this amendment is not voted on and those who will oppose it argue that it is not possible for the second amendment to be accepted, to follow what the Minister has already said in the debate itself, to sit down for the third reading and to amend this article in this article with this provision, which would take up what we have been talking about. And the minister also supports that. Once again, we support this amendment and we expect that it will certainly be covered in the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u181	Thank you. I just want to remind you once again that there is no more business complication. I think we've made this very clear. However, as you have said, it is possible, if one of the amendments is adopted, to submit an amendment to Article 8, in the third reading. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u182	Thank you very much. We will support this amendment, which the proposer and I, together with the Slovenian People's Party, will support. But we must also point out that it is not true that there is no business complication. This is a business precedent because the amendment does not exclude itself, and in this case this instruction was such that the coalition does not support our amendment, even though the minister has supported it. Both amendments should be supported in order to obtain a comprehensive solution, information on all bad claims. Because our amendment refers to claims that are not transferred to the Company for Bank Claims Management. Since it has been ordered that Members should not vote in favour of this amendment, it is quite clear that one claim will be hidden, that dedicated people will be protected by the perpetrators of crimes. And again, in some way, this law has been destroyed, even though we will support it, that you will have no excuse not to vote for the law. I think that Members and Members must vote in favour of this amendment and also in favour of the next one, because they are not excluded, and for the first time, as I recall, you have used such a dictatorship to exclude such two amendments, and it is not possible to accept them. Historical responsibility, Mr President, you are taking on yourself because this is not good for the further development of this country, for the transparency you have talked about so much. It absolutely casts a shadow on how this coalition works. I really expected us to sit here now and then unify this matter. No problem would have been if both amendments had been adopted and then ours would have only been misnumbered and in the next third reading they would have renumbered the indents editorially. No, you turned it down, too, and that was rejected. Once again, I would like you to consider thinking together that in this way, with precedents that have not been in this House so far, you are not trying to undermine the consistency of a solution that must be consistent and transparent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u183	Thank you, Mr. Jerovšek. I must tell you that you have misrepresented your position in this respect as to whether these two amendments are compatible or not. This is exactly why, even on the basis of your demands, I have presented to you in writing the position as to why the amendments are incompatible. The second amendment amends Article 8 as a whole and your amendment refers to the current article. And if the proponents, the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Slovenian People's Party, were to draft an amendment to the coalition amendment during this period, today they could decide on an amendment to the coalition amendment, i.e. the two amendments. You have not taken advantage of this, the Rules of Procedure allow you to do so, and as I have said, if one of the two amendments is adopted, an appropriate amendment can be tabled in the third reading. At this stage, however, there is no doubt as to how the vote on the amendments tabled to Article 8 should take place. Anybody else want to explain their voice? I note that no, so we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary groups and the Slovenian People's Party to Article 8(1). We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 43. (For the vote was 33.)(against 43.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 8. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. (For the vote was 52.)(Nobody.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 9 and to decide on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 9. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 12 and decide on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 12. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 13 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to this Article. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 14 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to this Article. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 15 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to this Article. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 17 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to this Article. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 74 votes against 1. [[The vote was 74.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We turn to Article 21 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 21. Mr Jožef Horvat has an explanation of vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u184	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Of course, the New Slovenia Group will support this amendment to Article 21. I must also express my satisfaction that we are doing relatively well in voting on these amendments. As you have seen, the opposition has actually supported the vast majority of the coalition amendments. However, I would like to inform you, my fellow Members and colleagues, because you were previously absent from the Chamber when we had a debate on the amendment, at least not all of them, that Minister Dr Virant said he was in favour of this amendment. I therefore believe that in the National Assembly, the word applies and I expect support for this amendment, which is read very simply: "With a fine of €800, the person responsible for the offence shall be punished if, within the time limit referred to in Article 26, he does not provide the required information of a public nature to the world web." I'm asking for your support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u185	Thank you. Dr Ljubica Jelusic has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u186	Thank you very much. The Group of Social Democrats will support the addition of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u187	Thank you. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the Group of the National Gazette shall be mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u188	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! In the Civil Gazette and in other coalition parties, we believe that it is appropriate to establish a criminal norm or sanction for those responsible for business entities when they do not publish such information on the Internet. Therefore, we will also support the amendment of colleagues from New Slovenia for the reason that the article will be open. At the same time, we call on both the Legislative and Legal Service and the Ministry to review the nomotechnic article once again and to determine whether the best placement of the new fourth indent in the third paragraph of the Article is really the best place in the third paragraph of the article or whether a new paragraph is more meaningful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u189	Thank you, too. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 73 votes against 1. [[The vote was 73.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 23 and decide on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to 23. A member. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 26 and decide under point 1 on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 26. Mr Jožef Horvat has an explanation of vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u190	Thank you again, Mr. President. Your Honor! The New Slovenia Group will support our amendment to Article 26. Although the Minister and I had had some controversy in the debate earlier, the Minister argued that the provisions that we want and we put here in this amendment are already implicit in the text of the law. I don't think Mr. Minister understands the pro-activity of this amendment. This is a matter of proactiveity, because we are actually referring the obligation to business entities that are obliged to provide information of a public nature on a global web-based basis. This isn't about a free decision. It's a duty. And look, this amendment of ours substantially improves the law in the sense of pro-activity and actually shows, if the amendment is adopted, for really fair purposes of this law. Otherwise, colleagues and colleagues, I'm afraid it'll be another pianist move. I invite you to consider and also to support our amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u191	Thank you, too. Can we make a decision? We vote on the amendment under point 1 of the New Slovenia Group to Article 26. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 44. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under point 2, we decide on the amendment of the Coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 26. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 66 votes against 1. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 28 and decide on the amendment of the Coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 28. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 29 and under point 1 we decide on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to 29. A member. Here I warn you, if this amendment is adopted, the amendment under point two becomes irrelevant. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u192	Thank you very much. We will vote against this article, and I hope that other Members will do so, because in two indents this article refers to the most important parts of this law with regard to the implementation of the provisions of the Public Information Publication Act. The second indent departs this application for three months and the third indent departs for six months. This is done so that those who have robbed our banking system will be able to arrange the right things for the public to be seduced to the end, and this, ladies and gentlemen, is an incredible abuse if this article is adopted. Therefore, think carefully, Members, what a trap they have set here in this amendment, because without it the law will be practically a dead letter on paper, the public, the people will be defrauded, deceived, thirsty will be brought over the water, so we cannot make such a decision. I believe that this is also set up to trap me, that in this case we will not support the law. We will support it, but in advance we warn the public how incredibly insidious it is, how everything is set up, that the law will not be operational, that the public will not know and that those who have robbed this country will be protected in the long term. And, of course, they will be incredibly long with this capital, with these billions to manage this Slovenia, and at the same time, they will end up claiming to be national heroes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u193	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We vote on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups under Article 29(1). We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present. It was 42 votes against 31. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Thus, the amendment under point two of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group to Article 29 is irrelevant. We have also concluded with this by deciding on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill at its next meeting. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: the draft law for the third reading be prepared by the Government. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. It's 74 votes against no one. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 3. 2. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving on to Article 29 and deciding on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 29. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present. It's 53 votes against no one. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment and thus I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill at its next meeting. On the basis of Rule 137(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: a proposal for a third-reading law shall be prepared by the Government. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 57 votes against none. (For the vote was 57.)(Nobody.) I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 18th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the draft law on prevention of work and employment in black. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on job prevention and employment is black for further consideration. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 5. (For the vote was 47.)(against 5.) I understand that the decision has been taken. Since the decision has been adopted, the draft law will be allocated to the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Financial Administration Bill. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a Financial Administration Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. (For the vote was 65.)(Nobody.) I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Slovenian State Holding. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for the Slovenian State Holding Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 30. (There were 44 votes in favour.)(against 30.) I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Banking Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the Banking Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 41. (For the vote was 32.)(against 41.) I note that the assembly did not adopt the decision and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill is closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the interim report of the Commission of Inquiry for the determination and assessment of the activities of extremist groups. We are moving on to a decision on the essential findings of the Commission of Inquiry, which are set out in the interim report on pages 41 to 54. We're voting. 72 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 25. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 25.]] I note that the key findings of the Commission of Inquiry have been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. Dr Ljubica Jelusic has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u194	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Group of Social Democrats, we support both the conclusions of the Commission to investigate extremist groups. We believe that in all legislative proposals, all types of extremism, left, right and religious, must be treated in an equal manner at different times, and that some extremisms are more visible or more violent. But throughout history it turns out to be necessary to have appropriate legislative tools that fit or respond to all forms of extremism. We are also of the opinion in our parliamentary group that, in addition to amending legislation, more needs to be done in the educational system, so that young people can be taught, literally from kindergarten onwards, at different educational levels, what extremist groups offer and, of course, also make sure that they are provided with adequate compensation for their integration and activities in the environment in which they live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u195	Thank you, too. Mr Franz Puksič has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Parliamentary Group [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! In order not to make it appear that in the Slovenian People's Party or even on behalf of all three of us who have also drawn up a separate opinion, they would not support the decision in terms of amending and supplementing certain legislation. We won't support these two conclusions, but I'll tell you why not. We discussed the emergence of extremist groups in Slovenia for a year and a half on the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services, and we also had relevant data from all intelligence services, as well as a report from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. A similar report was also made at the end of 2013, as far as extremism in Slovenia is concerned, so there are no major problems in this area. Another time. We have already proposed on the Commission for the Control of Security and Intelligence Services to the Government that, in the light of the decisions taken, five adopted decisions should be taken, amendments to certain legislation should be prepared. We did not get an answer, but the same government, in which coalition Members are now saying that it is necessary to amend the law, sent a response to the Commission for extremist groups, which the Positive Slovenia had established at the time it was in opposition. The government said it wouldn't change the law. So the left hand doesn't know what the right hand is doing. In short, this interim report was completely irrelevant, but this was found late Friday night. There were very few of us. And I was very happy this time that there were few of us because, such as the problem of extremism in Slovenia, that was the interest of Members and Members. But it was also on my side if you ask me to lead the National Assembly, but this point was put on the agenda when it was known that it would actually be the least of the damage. Therefore, and for these reasons, we will not support conclusions in the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u197	Thank you. Before I proceed to explain and decide, I just want to clarify that we are voting on a single decision with two points. Only to the extent that it is clear about the vote itself. On behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Positive Slovenia wishes to explain the vote of Mr Jerko Čehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u198	Thank you. There are days when it's hard to remember everything. In the Parliamentary Group, Positive Slovenia will support the decision proposed by the Commission of Inquiry in these two conclusions that, both at European Union level and in individual Member States, the Republic of Slovenia is no exception, and extremism is strengthened. In the Parliamentary Group, Positive Slovenia considers it important that the competent authorities draw up appropriate proposals to amend the legislation in accordance with the above-mentioned proposals and the essential findings of the Commission of Inquiry. In doing so, we are also pleased that the competent representative of the Government has accepted this initiative.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u199	Thank you. We vote on the proposal for a decision. There are 73 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 26. (The vote was 43.)(against 26.) I note that the decision has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to 23. At the end of the day, these are official refined texts. Under point (a), the Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and forcible termination procedures shall be implemented. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The formal text of the Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination shall be confirmed. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the official consolidated texts have been prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We move to point b, which is the Mining Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The formal text of the Mining Act is confirmed. We're voting. There are 73 in attendance, 73 in favour, against no one. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. Under point c, we are moving to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The text of the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on recording equipment in road transport shall be confirmed. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 24th item of the agenda, these are Mandate-Voluntary matters. The proposal for a decision on the discharge of the President and the Vice-President and the appointment of the President and Vice-President of the Commission for the National Community shall be dealt with under point 3. The proposal was tabled by the Italian and Hungarian Group of National Communities. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision that will relieve Dr László Göncz and Roberto Battelli of his office as Vice-President in the Commission for National Communities. The President is Roberto Battelli and Dr László Göncz is Vice-President. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Medicinal Products. Because the government is on Thursday, 30. 1. 2014, warned that after the third hearing due to the amendments adopted, the proposal for the law was not harmonised, the Government prepared the harmonisation amendment you received on the e-club. Does he want the harmonisation amendment, perhaps, the word of the Government? The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u200	Good afternoon, Mr President, honourable Members. I would like to say just a few words about this harmonisation amendment. In view of the adoption of Article 126 of the second reading law at the 20th ordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which regulated the overall field of the issue of medicines across the network, in pharmacies and specialised shops, the text of paragraph 4 of this Article should be deleted by means of a harmonisation amendment in Article 16 of the Act. This proposal regulates the overall scope of the issue of medicinal products across the network and is regulated in the draft medicines law, while the additional posting standard for the regulation of this substance in the law governing the pharmacy activity is not in accordance with the regulation provided for in Article 126 of the proposal. Given that new articles have been added to the draft law, it is also necessary to align the individual articles appropriately with the amended series of articles or to correct the references within the texts of the individual articles of the draft law. In Article 194, this was formerly Article 193 and the reference to individual articles in which the legal basis for the issue of sub-legislative acts is aligned with the material provision of the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u201	Thank you also very much for Mrs Brigitte Chokl, who presented the position of the Government or the harmonisation amendment. Anybody else want to discuss this? I note that no, so I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the Government's harmonisation amendment. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] The harmonisation amendment was adopted. We are still moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group is mag. Tissel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u202	All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will vote against the Drug Law, although it brings a lot of good, also through European directives and clarifys a lot, including the price of medicines and so on. However, we could make a point on this law, as DeSUS suggested, in order to demarcate retail and wholesale activities of pharmacies. This law is still allowing for a further wholesale activity, which has not been banned in the previous law, but would have clearly demarcated matters by this law. Let retail do the retailing, and let wholesalers do the wholesale. Even pharmacies established to be available with medicines and advice, of course also with other articles for citizens and citizens. Concession is given by the congregation. It is useful, however, that there are also private pharmacies, that there is competition. While we are still allowing the situation to continue, when they do not have a permit for retail pharmacies as well as other health establishments involved in health care, they are also engaged in a drastic activity. It was said that this would be taken care of in the pharmacy law. Let's hope it does. Similarly, a constitutional judgment has already been given on this very subject of the law, so that wholesalers can also deal with retail. Then we get right to the whole barn. If everyone's gonna take care of everything, no one's gonna have any of it. Health care is therefore in public institutions to return profits to activity itself, and we need to achieve this in health care in order to get what we have from contributions, with health money, in order to devote ourselves to activities. I hope that further, or when appropriate, laws are in place, this activity will still vary. We will not support this law today in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-04-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u203	Thank you, too. We're voting on the law. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 42 votes against 27. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 27.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the 21st meeting of the choir. Thank you and good-bye for the next session.
