ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 1st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58(2) and Article 60(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by Mr Pojbič. I welcome everyone here. Before we move to the agenda of the meeting, allow me to address the National Assembly regarding the memory of the victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! On 2 April 2009, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, which pointed out that it had already adopted a declaration on 23 September 2008 to declare the European Day of Remembrance of the Victims of Stalinism and Nazism on 23 August 2008. Since 2008, we have been marking the day of memory of all victims of totalitarian and authoritarian regimes, which have made a bloody attack on the development of the countries of the European continent. That is why I must and I want to address today to this high assembly a few words on this subject, which is still painful and painful in Europe and in particular in Slovenia. The Day of Remembrance of the Victims of Totalitarianism requires us to carry out our civil duty and to preserve in our memory all victims of all totalitarianism and authoritarian regimes, their relatives and all individuals who have been directly or indirectly affected with them. In doing so, historians who are called upon by the European Parliament in point A of that resolution to use scientific tools to study the past in order to be as impartial as possible. In doing so, we have a very important role for a political party, which must not have the exclusive right to explain history, so is point B of the European Parliament's resolution. However, the official political interpretations of historical facts should not be imposed either by majority decisions in parliaments, as is the case with point C of the said resolution. Finally, the European Parliament calls for the preservation in Europe of a memory of Europe's tragic past, honouring the victims, condemning the perpetrators and laying the foundations for a reconciliation based on truth and memory, this is point F of the European Parliament resolution. It is therefore right to express our respect for all victims of totalitarian and authoritarian regimes in Europe, throughout the world and in particular with us, and with our action, participation and conduct in this high assembly, we are renewing our commitment to a peaceful and successful Europe based on values such as respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, as stated in paragraphs 1 and 2 of the resolution. Without that, the memory of the victims of totalitarian systems and authoritarian regimes will fade. But the wounds they have inflicted on us in Europe and with us, we will not be able to heal by silence. No, no, no. That's what we need to talk about. If we take as an incentive and example the unbiased work of political thought Hannah Arendt, who in her book The Sources of Totalitarianism warned that a totalitarian system without the consent of society, from crowds to elites, cannot be established. The evil of totalitarianism can only create a space of political action that enables citizens to act politically. And Parliament represents such a political space. A space of political speech and dialogue. I wish and hope that such a place will also be this national assembly. To try to understand without excusing violence. In our own opinion, we will turn the places of dedication to political will and keep the memory of the victims of totalitarianism constantly by true political speech and action. Every moment of our work in the National Assembly, we can take advantage of the fact that we are always trying to draw closer to the examples set by Hannah Arendt – not to be silent and to agree silently with what has happened, but to speak politically and to change what we need to change, so that we can take a better path together, not in any way, but in any democratic and parliamentary way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u2	We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda for the 1st Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 22 August 2014, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals to extend the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 84 votes against 2. [[84 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the agenda for the 1st Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY — THE VOYAGE OF THE VICE-PRESENTATIVES OF THE NATIONAL CONGREGATION. I inform you that, for the election of the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly on 22 August 2014, a group of 49 Members and Members, with the first-signed Matjaz Han, who proposes Janko Vebra as Vice-President of the National Assembly, and a group of 49 Members and Members, with the first-signed France Jurša, who proposes Primož Hainz as Vice-President of the National Assembly. In order to further explain the application, I first give the floor to the representative of the Magi proposal. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u3	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Members and Members of the Social Democrats are proud that today, when we are faced with decisions that mark the leadership and functioning of the National Assembly in this mandate, we are proposing Janko Webra as Vice-President. In these times, the National Assembly may be more likely than ever before to face major challenges, challenges that will require responsible work from each of us and Members and many difficult decisions. The leadership of the National Assembly, which, by any decision, still has a bearing on the lives of our citizens and citizens, must be so entrusted to people who, with their personality and experience, can contribute to the responsible and credible work of this institution. Our fellow Member and also my party colleague, Janko Weber, goes beyond the choice of Social Democrats to propose one of our kind as Vice-President of the National Assembly. It is a policy that we can place without question among the most visible names of this institution. That is the case with his extremely rich political path. Janko Weber started his career in the field of regulating premises and inspection services in the Municipality of Kočevje and later became director of the public company Hydrovod Kočevje-Ribnica. The important turning point in his political career was certainly in 1994 when he was elected mayor of Kočevje Municipality. His dedicated work and personality qualities, which highlight the sense of fellow human beings, were recognized by citizens and citizens and elected to the mayor’s seat three times. Since 1996, the electorate and the electorate have entrusted him with the post of MP. He has built up his work in parliamentary benches throughout the years. He was a member and vice-chairman of many parliamentary committees and commissions, president of the Committee on Transport, led a parliamentary group of Social Democrats. In the last year, he was elected president of the National Assembly by Members and Members of the previous call. I am proud that the National Assembly of Presidents of the Social Democrats. I am particularly proud that Janko Weber was President of all Members and Members, not just on paper. With his responsible attitude, his consistent interpretation of the Rules of Procedure and the proper work of the National Assembly, Janko Weber gave a good traveller while setting high criteria for moving forward. Today we will take an important step in the work of the National Assembly – we will elect the Vice-Presidents and the Secretary-General. There are decisions before us that will have a significant impact on the work of the institution itself and, last but not least, on the expression of the institution outside. It is a strong team that will successfully steer over the required tasks that await the National Assembly, we will have people's confidence that, regardless of the political colours and client preferences, we are a team that is loved here for people and from people. Therefore, let us leave behind our interests and the full leadership of the National Assembly with competent candidates. Janko Weber is more than proof that he deserves our trust, and I am sure that the work of the Vice-President of the National Assembly will be excellent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u4	In order to further explain the application, I also give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u5	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A nice greeting from the honourable Member, honourable Members, as well as representatives of the media and other public! We have before us the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly or two Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we propose that one of the three Vice-Presidents be occupied by a Member of our kind, Mr Primož Hainz. According to our assessment, it is an appropriate person to carry out the work of the Vice-President of the National Assembly with the highest degree of responsibility. Mr Hainz has long experience in working in the Council of State – he has also worked as secretary of the Council of State – which he can usefully integrate into the work of the Vice-President of the National Assembly. Members and Members of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners believe that the proposal put forward to elect Mr Primož Hainz as Vice-President of the National Assembly is more than appropriate. We believe that he will carry out the challenging tasks of the Vice-President of the National Assembly successfully and responsibly, so we propose that Members and Members of this Assembly call support the proposal of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners to elect Primož Hainz as Vice-President of our Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u6	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Parliamentary Group of the Mir Cerar Party, Dr Simon Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u7	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the Parliamentary Group of the Mir Cerar Party, we have decided to support Ambassador of the SD Group Janka Vebra and Ambassador of the DeSUS Group Primož Hainz as the candidate for the Vice-President of the National Assembly. Janko Weber is a long-standing, highly experienced Member and politician, who started his career in 1994 and is at the very top of Slovenia's most experienced parliamentarians. In his work so far, he has managed to have a consistent and responsible attitude towards challenging leadership tasks in the National Assembly. His character properties, his wisdom further excuses our support for candidate Janko Webr. In the current early parliamentary elections, voters and voters have entrusted him with the sixth consecutive parliamentary term, and we are even more confident that, as Vice-President of the National Assembly, he will lead our assembly in a highly professional manner, and that he will thus gain the confidence of Members and Members from all parliamentary parties. We also support candidate Primož Hainz as Vice-President of the National Assembly in the Parliamentary Group of the Party Mir Cerar. In the last 12 years, candidate Primož Hainz has acquired a number of organizational and managerial experience in the role of secretary and deputy secretary of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, which will also be indispensable in the role of Vice-President of the National Assembly. His principle and sincere efforts to improve the lives of all of us have, among other things, been demonstrated in the recent negotiation processes for the new coalition, and we believe that candidate Primož Hainz will also be a professionally sovereign vice-president of our assembly. In any event, both candidates will be unanimously supported by the Mir Cerar Party Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u8	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia and Karl Viktor Erjavec for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u9	Honourable President of the National Assembly, dear Members and Members of Parliament, all present! In the DeSUS Group, we are very pleased that today's meeting has taken place, which essentially means the final formation of the National Assembly, so I think it is important because we know what situation Slovenia is in and that we need to form the necessary authorities that will take responsibility for managing the country as soon as possible. The first step is certainly a national assembly, the next step will be the government and I am sure that within 14 days Slovenia will somehow be in full shape so that the government and the National Assembly will be able to take responsibility for managing this country. I must say that I regret that, given that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly allowing the Vice-President's seat to be offered by the largest opposition party, it would be good to have the largest opposition party acting in the leadership of the National Assembly, in particular in terms of constructive opposition. We know that the problems we are facing are enormous and that it is necessary to overcome together all the problems that the country is facing today. I can say that I am very pleased with both proposals. I've known Mr. Janko Vebra for many years. I can also congratulate him on his excellent work at a time when he led this respected assembly. I am sure that he will do as well as the Vice-President of the National Assembly, and I am looking forward to working with him. The same applies to Mr Primož Hainz. It is a man who has long experience in this building, but not in this room, but as Secretary of the State Council. It is characterized by calmness, connectivity, thinking ability and I am sure that we have offered a good candidate in the DeSUS Group, with whom, once we have finished our mandate, you will be able to say that it has been very pleasant to cooperate. As President of DeSUS and as a member of this National Assembly, I expect as much support as possible for both candidates, because it is in the interest of all of us to form a final national assembly as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u10	The text is by the Joint Left and by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u11	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Respectable, respected, comrades, comrades! I'll start with a rhetorical figure. The situation of more than 270 000 people living under the poverty threshold in Slovenia last year is alarming. For them, no concrete proposals are found in the coming government agreement; the interest of more than eight people is not represented. The draft coalition contract retains unreasonable property prices for obtaining social assistance, depreciates acquisition procedures, retains minimum wage below the poverty risk threshold. There is no solution to ensure that all workers receive a fair pay for honest work. On the other hand, the incoming government predicts a reduction in the share of those taxes collected on the basis of the principle of solidarity, so that the wealthier contribute slightly more. It will have to replace them by raising indirect taxes, which disproportionately burden less wealth and, above all, the poorest. Likewise, capital revenues will remain outside the common income base and thus will not be progressively taxed. The coalition agreement does not therefore constitute an anti-equality programme but continues to increase class inequality. In the coming government programme, there is another vulnerable group that is focused on the worse tomorrow. It's about older people. We are facing direct privatisation of homes for older citizens, experience with concessions and private homes for older citizens, which means raising the cost of care. This reduces access to the legally protected right to social protection for the poorest people who would need it most. If we are to maintain and upgrade basic civilisation standards, we will have to bet on something other than the economy. With the promotion of the economy, the incoming government should also start with concern for civilisation and social standards. Make it possible for the elderly to age safely. The Vice-President of the National Assembly in the proposed composition is in the hands of the coalition and the incoming governments, i.e. those who propose a devastating vision for the development of the country. From the United Left, we are thus again sending an appeal to the proposed Vice-President, if confirmed, to ensure that not only the voting machine, but the space of the articulated and reasoned dialogue, will not be the State Assembly for the Reality of Showes, as Comrade Trček has already pointed out. That is why we express our reservations to the proposals for the Vice-President, and I thank you for your time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u12	On the basis of Article 75(2), I find that most of this debate was not a debate on this. I would ask you to try again, although it was eventually brought to this, but I would really like to discuss it as envisaged in the Rules of Procedure. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u13	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! In appointing the Vice-Presidents of our National Assembly, I would like to draw attention to a small but important detail. In the narrower leadership of the National Assembly, there will be virtually no women; it will be a male body, a male governing body, which will lead this national assembly, which is in some ways a bad one. In particular, we were expecting slightly different proposals from parties advocating gender equality, perhaps next time.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u14	Thank you. There are no further reports of debate. However, since the time set for the debate has remained or has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else would like to discuss it? No, no, no. I therefore conclude the debate with this. We're moving to the vote. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Assembly shall act by secret ballot on the election of Vice-Presidents. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. The leaders of the parliamentary groups have already forwarded me proposals for the members of the committee that leads the vote. These are: Dr. Mitja Horvat, Parliamentary Group of the Mir Cerar Party, mag. Bojana Muršič, Social Democrats' Group, Miha Kordiš, United Left Group, Iva Dimic, New Slovenia's Group of Ambassadors – Christian Democrats. I am also a member of this Commission as Chairman. Deputy Secretary-General Jernej Bergoč will also be involved in the work of the Commission. I propose that the Commission also conducts the elections of the President of the Government under agenda item 1. Does anyone object to this proposal and to the proposal for a commission? If not, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present and 79 votes against 2. [[The vote was 79.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. Messengers and Members will receive two votes. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Members shall be served with their votes in such a way as to bring each Member to the table of the President and to state their name. It shall be voted that the word "for" or "against" shall be encircled on the ballot for each candidate. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the Member's will is not clear. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a candidate for which the majority of all Members will vote for the Vice-President will be elected, i.e. 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. I ask Members and Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the electoral material. The vote will begin at 10.45 p.m. and will last until 11.05 p.m. After the vote, I ask Members and Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet in room 217. I interrupt the 2nd item of the agenda and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 11.25 a.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u15	We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to a closed second point, this is the election of the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly. I will read the minutes on the outcome of the vote for Vice-President of the National Assembly. The vote was held at the House of the National Assembly on 25. 8. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of In the event of a vote for Janko Vebra, 87 ballots were distributed. 87 ballots were delivered. There were 19 invalid ballots. There were 68 valid ballots. 59 members voted in favour. Nine Members voted against it. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Janko Weber was elected Vice-President of the National Assembly by a majority of the votes of all Members. And a record of the outcome of the vote on the candidate for Vice-President of the National Assembly, Primož Hainz. The vote was held at the House of the National Assembly on 25. 8. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of 87 ballots were distributed. 87 ballots were delivered. There were six invalid ballots. There were 81 valid ballots. 56 members voted in favour. 25 members voted against. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Primož Hainz was elected Vice-President of the National Assembly by a majority of the votes of all Members. I congratulate the newly elected Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, Janko Webr and Primož Hainz, and wish them much success in the performance of their duties. / applause/ I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for the election of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. On 19 August 2014, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Borut Pahor, proposed that Dr Miroslav Cerar be elected Prime Minister. I give the floor to the candidate for Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to present the Government's programming designs in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 226 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u16	Dear Mr President, honourable Members and Members, dear citizens and citizens, distinguished media representatives and other guests! When we Slovenians gained national independence 23 years ago, of course we could not imagine all the challenges that were ahead of us at the time. To many of us, we have so far been partial, but in some respects, as individuals and as a nation, we have not yet matured to the point where we can fully live as a nation-building, socially responsible and sustainable society. The result of this immaturity is the current financial, economic and, last but not least, social crisis, which is largely due to our own crisis of values and own faults and to the less global financial crisis that has plagued us very much since 2008. If, until then, we had sufficiently anchored fundamental democratic and legal values, if we had sufficiently developed a responsible attitude towards society and citizens, and if we had matured towards the future, today we would not have faced severe social pressures, with great unemployment and poverty, with the escape of young and older people abroad, with an extremely poor public financial situation, with the crisis of the economy, and not least with corruption, which in the mirror shows us a completely different form of self-recognizableness than we have been previously Slovenians. All of this has led us to the turning point of development. From this point we can finally slip into the abyss and lose our national and national conquests, but we can finally and definitively turn to the right direction and take the path of cooperation, engagement and success. We can continue to weaken the general state of the spirit and sink into willlessness, or, as we know and can, we begin to work seriously, to cooperate, to promote the good and thus to become a successful society. As a candidate for Prime Minister and as a citizen, I see and recognise only this second path, the path of cooperation for the benefit of citizens. If I receive support from this well-respected High Council for the formation of a new government, I will do everything I can and will be able to do with the government, with you, Members and Members, and with citizens and citizens that Slovenia will gradually live a full life, to become and remain a pleasant home for present and future generations and to enjoy confidence and reputation in Europe and the world. Slovenia has sufficient natural, human and other potential to make it a successful country in all respects. Of course, at that time, it is imperative that we first take or achieve one thing, one single thing, that is: our joint decision. If we decide together that we want to be different, better and more successful, then we can do it. In order for this decision to come true, a new government must carry out its task among the first, and it must be the institution of such a policy that will reawaken its trust in people and in other state institutions. In recent years, we have become a society with an extremely low degree of mutual trust, but without confidence there is no hope of being the nucleus of man. For our many daily hopes can only be sufficiently realized if we can rely on a fellow human, both a friend and an official, a judge, an MP, a doctor or a teacher. Of course, we are all people in all of this, who here and there also experience negative passions or make such or other mistakes. But it is essential that all of us constantly strive to overcome negative passions and correct mistakes. It is therefore crucial that we constantly strive for a society of trust and thus enable the normal functioning of all social sub-systems. At institutional level, trust between citizens and the country is created primarily by respect for the rule of law and fundamental social values. So far in Slovenia we have not sufficiently understood the importance of the constitutional principle of the rule of law. Respect for this principle means the continuous establishment and maintenance of a just order in society. Without the rule of law, there can be no successful banking, economy, culture, social or education, for where, if I say simply, it is stolen and lied, there is no justice or order. That's where society breaks up and eventually goes down. The key task of the future government will therefore be to ensure respect for and the best possible functioning of the rule of law in all areas. This will enable the economy to operate in a predictable and stable environment, with entrepreneurs able to operate normally and recover their claims more quickly in the courts. However, inspections and other services will effectively prevent the operation of the grey economy and violations or abuses of labour and other legislation. Respect for the rule of law means that supervisory mechanisms are in place in the economy and banking that prevent business irregularities. The rule of law means that there is no corruption in public procurement and in general in the functioning of public administration, but that public servants act by law and try to enable citizens to exercise their rights and duties as quickly as possible. The rule of law means that the judiciary is independent and professionally autonomous within the framework of the Constitution and the law, with each judge having to carry out his or her work and mission conscientiously and professionally and without causing judicial backlogs. The rule of law appreciates the honest and responsible work of inspectors, police officers, state prosecutors, lawyers and all other key actors in legal proceedings. The rule of law means that the State must not discriminate against individuals according to their social or property status or under any other personal circumstances. Last but not least, the rule of law means that all citizens understand that the rule of law is an important social good, which we must protect individually and collectively also by fulfilling our marital obligations and then by giving appropriate and firm warning to others. If we finally manage to provide an effective legal state in Slovenia, we will stabilise the entire social space and thus enable all activities to have the necessary legal predictability and reliability of their plans and practices. However, the assumption of legal and broader social stability and the effectiveness of development is political stability and constructiveness. This can only be achieved if we substantially increase the standards of political culture and the integration of policy. This must be a priority for the overall orientation of the future government and its parliamentary coalitions and, of course, for the opposition. Higher political culture must be expressed in a patient political debate, in respect of human rights, institutions of democracy and the rule of law, in respect of the constructive initiatives of civil society operators and, lastly, in a strengthened consciousness, that political officials must serve people, the nation and the state, not to constantly argue with each other about these or those past merits or to indecently and manipulatively undermine the integrity of public function holders and states as such. More constructive cooperation is needed in state policy. In this respect, as Prime Minister, I will advocate that the government coalition consider and take into account all the good and useful initiatives and proposals of the opposition. I will further advocate a high culture of public speaking. I will be unrelentingly critical of any form of hate speech or of such a public political performance that offends rivals or citizens. I will also strongly oppose the political practice that I might wish to promote in Slovenia feelings of fear and threat. Slovenia is committed to democracy and the rule of law and, as such, must offer all individuals security and freedom. One of the future general tasks of Slovenian policy is that, first of all, between politicians and citizens, it is better to realise that the Slovenian state is our fundamental political asset, which enables us to express our national identity and to express our relatively independent existence and development. If the state or State authorities have not proven sufficient to manage the state policy so far, this does not mean that we must ignore or despise or even deny the state. On the contrary. It is high time that we show ourselves and the world convincingly that the Slovenians themselves are able to lead and manage their country in a qualitative way. To this end, I will do my utmost to make the new government a credible political institution and a good master. Such a master, who carefully protects and manages state assets, is wise and beneficial to the State and citizens. In all ways and at all levels, we will prevent waste, corruption and incompetence. In order to be able to focus and fully address all the key challenges facing the future government and, in general, Slovenian politics, on the one hand, our internal crisis and on the other hand the difficult international situation, we must renounce the devastating and senseless ideological conflict. All those ideological themes that make us distinctly separate from the Slovenians, but they are no longer essential for the present and future, we must now put aside. Those ideological themes that cannot be avoided on their way to a better tomorrow, however, need to be given the right measure of attention, but to discuss them with patience and dignity and to contain negative passions. Let me also say that in many areas our policy can focus primarily on upgrading what has already been achieved. Where the country has already been successful, good practices must be pursued. Our guiding principle must therefore be to maintain good and overcome bad. Unfortunately, in some areas, because of the severe deterioration of the situation, we will have to begin almost at the beginning, where we have not made significant progress so far, because we have forgotten fundamental constitutional and social values. Dear High Council! I would like to briefly outline some of the points that will represent the basic framework and content of the government programme. The main mission of the future government must, as it is said, be to restore people's confidence in the country and its fundamental pillars of political and other action. The mission of Slovenian policy and the country must be focused primarily on development. Economic growth, the protection of existing jobs and the creation of new jobs will be crucial for the development of the economy and for the preservation and development of the social state. The government will place the international competitiveness and economic performance of Slovenia as members of the European Union in a competitive global environment among its priorities. The development of society and the state must be sustainable in all areas and in all fundamental respects. This means that the country, with its existence and operation, respects and meets the needs of all present and coming generations. Development in the field of human rights and equal opportunities is also an important aspect of such development. However, in order to properly focus on future and development, we must first heal the wound that has been burdening Slovenian society for decades. We must show the fifth to all the dead. In doing so, we must express our gratitude to all the good that the previous generations have done for us, and from their bad and painful experiences, we must learn how important it is to respect human dignity, human rights, the fundamental rights of all social groups, and ultimately respect for the nature and world to which we belong. The Government's core programming baselines will be as follows. Firstly, ensure consistent respect for the rule of law, which is a condition for normalising the situation in society. Secondly, to ensure a predictable and simpler business environment for the development of a successful and socially responsible economy. Thirdly, to ensure an appropriate environment for the development of the professional potential of public servants and quality public services. Fourthly, to ensure an open dialogue with civil society to cooperate in addressing systemic inadequacies. Fifthly, to ensure a healthy, innovative, competent and socially supportive society that will enable us to live a quality life. In doing so, I find the substantive and symbolic key word health. I understand this concept in a multifaceted way, because the old Mens Sana River and the corpore Sano, a healthy spirit in a healthy body, leads us to realize that the health of the spirit and the body is related. The spiritual and psychophysical health of individuals, social groups and societies is what every highly developed human society weighs in. If a person is healthy in his spirit, in his thoughts, words, and actions, then his life is full and directed toward good and higher goals. If it is such, that is healthy, even society, then all its articles respect each other, cooperate, help each other and strive to realize all those universal values and virtues that discourage us from greed, envy, hatred and other negative passions that cause social crises and the developmental decline of man. The government will therefore seek to promote health in Slovenia – from schooling, ethical values and healthy and sports movements, through the general promotion of healthy nutrition and the healthy lifestyle of people, to the promotion of all forms of social and health care, especially for sick, disabled and elderly people. Here, of course, I must stress now that there are undoubtedly decisive challenges for the government in the area of institutionalised health. The government will support the preservation and strengthening of public health and a clearer distinction between public and private health activities. Ensuring conditions for accessible, quality and effective health care will be a government priority. Compulsory health insurance will maintain its universality and accessibility to legally designated health services while providing funds in solidarity. The various government objectives in this area include the abolition of voluntary supplementary health insurance and its replacement with adequate compensation, the establishment of a transparent, uniform and effective public procurement system, the promotion of appropriate standardisation and, last but not least, the provision of more efficient management and supervision in public health institutions. As in all other areas of its operation, the government will consult all relevant stakeholders in this area in advance in the implementation of these and other health changes, taking into account the professional criteria and standards. With all this, we want to enable patients, on the one hand, to obtain the necessary health care without too long-term waiting lines and, on the other hand, to enable healthcare professionals to continue to provide quality services to patients and to receive the payment they deserve. If we ask ourselves about our country’s health in a parable, we can see that this one is seriously ill. This is particularly painful in the unenviable health condition of public finances. In addition to measures for the stability of the banking sector, controlled and well-thought privatisation and the deleveraging and restructuring of enterprises are essential for this, immediate and medium- and long-term measures in the area of the consolidation and sustainability of public finances. The country's deficit reduction dynamic will be achieved on the part of public expenditure or expenditure by extending the measures already taken to limit wages and labour costs in the public sector. Social transfers will remain at the same level as they are now, until 2.5% of economic growth is achieved, which is not considered to be the level of minimum income which must, of course, be coordinated with inflation. In the area of public finances, a fiscal rule will be established through the adoption of the law and operationally, and the law will also define the role of the fiscal council, which will be an independent, professional and independent state body, whose task will be to assess, guide and give an expert opinion on the country's draft budget in terms of its sustainability, stability and effectiveness. In order to make public spending more efficient, a programming budget will be developed to plan expenditure in direct relation to the objectives and activities to achieve these objectives. A more efficient structure will be established and the administrative capacity of European fund-raising bodies will be improved and properly managed. Additional measures will be taken to effectively collect public benefits and to strengthen tax culture. Through the green budget reform and the phasing out of environmentally harmful subsidies, conditions will be created to gradually reduce labour burdens and to increase the cost competitiveness of the economy, while further ensuring environmental protection, which is also one of the basic directions of the future government. Among the government's actions in the area of public finances, let me mention the simplification of the public procurement system. In this area, staff will need to be additionally trained to be able to prepare quality professional calls, thereby avoiding later additions and encouraging individual contracts. Better criteria for cost-effectiveness and accountability for individual procurement will be introduced and a system of minimum values or prices will have to be eliminated as the only criterion for public procurement, as the same or more important criteria for higher quality, guidance for sustainable development, better use of public space and others may also be important. The government will ensure that all its actions are adapted to the fiscal framework put in place. This will take into account the specific domestic and international circumstances and, of course, the specificities of the Slovenian economy and society. Slovenia, like the European Union, is in a situation where economic growth and employment on the one hand need to increase domestic consumption and, on the other hand, is very limited due to the increasing indebtedness of the country, so we will focus on the most efficient structure of public consumption, namely the one that has the most impact on economic growth, on measures based on low indebtedness of the population, not only on successful economic growth, but on the efficient absorption of European funds and on other measures that will increase economic growth. We intend to achieve the gradual stabilisation of public finances with appropriate economic growth in particular. This is a relatively bold objective in a given international situation, but in my opinion the only possible one that ensures sustainable economic development and prosperity. In order to achieve those objectives, the government will support a socially responsible and development-oriented economy. It will introduce payment discipline, eliminate the grey economy, implement strategically deliberate privatisation, create an appropriate enabling environment for small and medium-sized enterprises, create an appropriate environment for the development of social entrepreneurship, society and cooperatives, guide projects within the framework of a smart specialisation strategy, promote export and international competitiveness of Slovenia, and focus in particular on removing administrative barriers that stifle the economic initiative. It will be particularly important to create an enabling environment for employment. The government will promote more secure flexibility and a smaller segmentation in the labour market in the labour market. In accordance with the principle that young people do not belong to the Employment Service, we will, through career incubators, the upgrading of the Youth Guarantee, with appropriate subsidies and in other ways, make it possible for young people to be employed immediately after completion of their education, but of course we will also use subsidies for employment and other measures for the employment of older and long-term unemployed persons and persons with disabilities. One of the main objectives will be to reduce the age segmentation in the labour market, which puts different groups in a highly unequal position. In the area of operation of banks and insurance companies, it is crucial to create a stable banking and financial system that will support development financing and restructuring of the economy, thereby supporting the strengthening of the competitiveness of the economy and efforts to preserve and create new jobs. The rehabilitation of the banking system must take place in the future mainly through economic recovery and an active approach within the banks themselves. The role of the so-called Bad Bank, the SID of the Bank and commercial banks will need to be more active in order to restructure and dissipate businesses faster and more effectively. In order to establish a significantly more efficient system of supervisory financial institutions, poor and unacceptable or corrupt practices will be prevented, thereby restoring confidence in the banking and insurance sectors. In the field of energy, we will advocate a stable, efficient and sustainable energy supply. Measures in this area include energy rehabilitation of buildings in state, municipal and private property, a financially sustainable system of support for renewable energy sources and, last but not least, the continuation of investment in the construction of a chain of hydro power plants on Sava and possibly in other suitable places in Slovenia. The government will certainly also ensure an independent audit of the construction and economic performance of the future operation of TES 6. In the infrastructure area, the efficiency of the management of existing infrastructure will need to be increased, which can be achieved mainly by providing a stable volume of financial resources for the execution of economic public services on State infrastructure and by gradually combining certain management functions on State transport infrastructure, namely on railways, motorways, state roads and water infrastructure. The organisation of the railway system will be aligned with the European directives in this area. Priority will be given to those infrastructure investments for which we will be able to ensure co-financing with EU funds and which will also provide cash flow to service debt financing resources when transferred to use. For the future of the Slovenian nation, the fields of education, education, science and higher education are of paramount importance. At the level of pre-school, primary and secondary education and education, the quality of the educational process must be further improved and autonomy and professional competence of educators and teachers must be ensured. Children and young people must be raised and educated at all stages of the earliest stages and at all stages also in terms of knowledge of key national and civil content and ethical values. It is not just a matter of strengthening our mind, for we also need strength and training of the heart. Sufficient attention should be paid to the comprehensive management of Slovenian language and the achievement of functional literacy. In general, practical training should also be introduced in the education process, strengthening the career and competent orientation of young people and making schools more closely connected to the local environment. In the field of higher education, it is necessary to ensure high quality studies and a fair way of integrating them, for example by allowing everyone who fulfils the conditions of registration free of charge once. There is a need to ensure more flexible forms of study and to support and better link research and education with financial and other incentives, and higher education needs to be linked to research institutes and, in particular, the economy and the wider social environment. The government will also pay special attention to culture and sport. With the support of all forms of sport and the prevention of abuse in sport, we will be able to maintain health and freshness of the spirit in society. With the support of Slovenian culture, we will maintain and jointly develop the Slovenian language and everything that has been forming the essence and identity of the Slovenian nation and nation over the centuries. Cultural policy must therefore be strategically placed in the implementation of all policies at country and local level. We will strengthen Slovenian cultural heritage, support the international placement of Slovenian culture, guarantee freedom of media space and promote cultural and cultural and artistic education at all levels of education. By optimising the professional and transparent functioning of the public administration, we will establish a clear and significantly more efficient organisational structure while training public servants with clear criteria for accountability and for progress, and ultimately by increasing responsiveness and flexibility in administrative services, we will ensure that public administration becomes significantly more efficient and user-friendly. Both in the domain of public administration and in the area of economy, environment and space, and in all other areas, we will promote the implementation of the VEM – All in one place, as this model allows customers to obtain all information in one place, making it easier for them to exercise their rights and interests. In the field of local self-government, the government will, in the first half of its mandate, in cooperation with all key stakeholders, prepare a strategy for the development of local self-government in the Republic of Slovenia. For a successful country, well - functioning congregations, which also fulfill the tasks assigned to them by law, are essential. The government will promote the autonomous integration or integration of municipalities and their cooperation, taking into account the principles of the European Charter on Local Self-Government, the findings of the Constitutional Court and the opinions of the profession. Only connected or united municipalities can be strong and developed and oriented towards sustainable development in their institutional, functional and financial autonomy. The government will also co-create a vision of Slovenian agriculture, which will be the cornerstone of the country's food security and will also be the foundation of rural economic vitality, along with forestry and fisheries. We will strive for such a development, which will adapt agriculture to the effects of climate change, while at the same time promoting all activities that permanently improve the competitiveness of Slovenian agriculture and strengthening the partnership between participants along the food supply chain and the forest and forestry chain. We will advocate for modern agriculture, which will ensure the highest possible rate of food supply. Agricultural land and forests are our great wealth, to which we must give all due attention and respect. Special support should be given to the development of family farms which form the basis of Slovenian agriculture. We will work to help farmers in areas with more difficult production conditions, and we will also give special attention to farms in demographically threatened and border areas. We will also advocate support for complementary activities such as tourism or crafts activities on farms. With specific measures, we will encourage young people to take over the farm from an older generation. It is also very important to improve the use of forests as the richest natural resource in Slovenia and to accelerate the domestic processing of wood into products of higher added value. The recovery of the wood processing industry should be encouraged and more efficient forest management should be ensured. Many of these and other policies in the field of economy, agriculture, infrastructure, energy and elsewhere will only be achieved if environmental and spatial assumptions are also adapted sufficiently quickly and qualitatively for these orientations. Even such an excellent idea of an entrepreneur, a builder or someone else to build an economically profitable facility cannot be realized without adequate checks and the effects of such an investment on the natural environment and space. The new Joint Ministry of Environment and Space will have to allow such procedures to obtain different opinions and authorisations, which will be significantly faster and more transparent than before. This will lead to greater efficiency in the adoption of national and municipal spatial plans and to significantly faster opportunities for economic and other investments affecting the environment and space. On the other hand, it is a key mission of that Ministry to ensure environmental protection, to which the government as a whole will be particularly committed. We will prepare a national programme for environmental protection. With the help of state, European and other resources, we will help local communities build drinking water supply networks and waste water treatment networks, we will establish a legal regime whereby the polluter of environmental damage will also be responsible, and we will establish zero tolerance for the causes of targeted harmful environmental interventions. We will also advocate recording the right to drinking water in the constitution. The government will seek to ensure adequate social policy and pension systems and intergenerational integration and cooperation. By promoting employment and the work of all age groups and by enforcing various forms of assistance, simplifying procedures and deploying available resources in accordance with the principles of solidarity and justice, the government will reduce the proportion of people below the poverty threshold. As has already been said, we will do our utmost to make it possible for young and old alike to earn a decent life by work. Particular attention will be paid to ensuring the conditions for access to the first apartment for young and young families. On the other hand, a long-term care and assistance system will be fully regulated. We will encourage early employment and late retirement by gradual entry and exit from the labour market. The principle of non-discrimination between individuals and social groups will be consistently established within the framework of equal opportunities policy for all. No personal circumstances of an individual shall be a reason to restrict his or her human rights. Particular attention will also be paid to the needs, interests and rights of various social groups: national, ethnic, interest and others. As regards the Italian and Hungarian national communities in the Republic of Slovenia, the government will upgrade both communities' constitutional rights already achieved. Among other things, the preparation and adoption of the Act on the Indigenous Italian and Hungarian National Communities and the continued enforcement of bilingualism in public administration, justice and other official spheres. Special rights and needs of the Roma community will be taken into account. The process of studying the initiative to regulate the collective rights of the national communities of members of the peoples of the former Yugoslav SFR will also be continued. The government will strive to maintain and further strengthen links with Slovenians in place and around the world, in order to preserve Slovenian language, Slovenian culture and cultural space. In this regard, by the end of 2015 a long-term strategy will be coordinated and adopted with Slovenians around the world, which will provide for opportunities and measures to maintain and develop their collective autonomy vis-à-vis the majority population in the environment where they live. At the same time, it is important that Slovenians around the world are strengthened by economic and other ties, which may have an additional positive impact on the development and export capacity of the Slovenian economy or on the development of Slovenian companies and activities around the world. Finally, let me give a few words to the situation of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union and the world. The government will seek to increase Slovenia's international credibility and foreign policy visibility. Within the European Union, Slovenia will make even more active and credible use of the opportunities it has as a member. In discussions and negotiations at the level of the European Union, it will put forward several proposals of hair and more active than EU policies so far. It will strive for intensive further development of economic diplomacy and for the management of proactive foreign policy and principled diplomacy. In all of this, we will build on the fundamental values and principles of our foreign policy, including the active promotion of human rights, the strengthening of human security and respect for international law. We will support strengthening the internal integration of the European Union and strengthening the role of the European Union in international relations and become active advocates of the enlargement process, especially in the Western Balkans. Dear Members and Members, dear citizens and citizens! Slovenia is in a difficult crisis situation and leads to all those goals only a difficult and difficult path. There are no shortcuts, and we're aware of that. In our political party, together with future coalition partners, with the Democratic Party of Slovenian pensioners and Social Democrats, we commit ourselves together to great responsibility and challenging tasks. But the courage we must must muster to achieve our goals is not only our mission, but also the task of all of us if we want the good of our country and our children or future generations. Let us, therefore, gather together each and every one of us with the courage to make a real decision this time on all the changes that will make our society better. Each of us, dear citizens and citizens, therefore, I call on you to change your bad habit and thus insert your pebble into our common mosaic of necessary social change. If today this High Assembly, as a candidate for the Prime Minister, is to extend its support to me, I will form a government, together with coalition partners, that will firmly outline the direction of these changes and then do everything possible to get Slovenia out of the crisis and to provide us all with sufficient prosperity and sustainable development. Thank you very much. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u17	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Janez Janša has the floor of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group and for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u18	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, Slovenians and Slovenians, citizens and citizens! Today's National Assembly is ahead of an important step and if we had an enabling time, as usual for elections in the countries of parliamentary democracy, everyone would probably only want one thing in this Chamber, which is as much success as possible to the concrete and ambitious programme that has been or should have been presented here today. But, unfortunately, we don't live this time, we don't live this time, and the fact that I'm talking to you here today is one of the proofs of that. I don't think it's ever happened that in Parliament on the day of the election of the Prime Minister, on behalf of the opposition, the prisoner would speak. They have, or you have, those who consider it extremely unusual, strange, incompatible with some of the general standards. We can only agree on that. However, the problem is not the result, but the problem is the cause. It is unusual that a few weeks before the elections without evidence may be sent to prison by the leader of the largest opposition party. And when you talk about what's normal and what's not normal, what's weird and what's not weird, you start for the reasons, and if you haven't, read the judgment. It's legal, it has its consequences. You are all in this room in writing and anyone who judges on the basis of newspaper articles and does not go into what is written in the judgment, but does not wrong to my family or to my client, but especially to his own wisdom and logic. So much for that. In short, we are at some extreme point of injustice, and I, who stand behind this speech today, am living proof of it. However, this meeting of the National Assembly began with a pleasant surprise. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group has proposed to the President of the National Assembly that we today kind of mark the day of remembrance of all victims of fascism, national socialism and communism, the European Day of Remembrance, and the President has done so today and I thank him. We welcome this first step, and we hope that others will follow it, that these words have been sincere and that after five years most of the Slovenian National Assembly will also be able to vote on the resolution adopted by the European Parliament. When we proposed this as a normal gesture five years ago, many other countries have done so, this resolution was rejected. We therefore expect that the next step will be taken and that the President of the National Assembly himself will propose this resolution in confirmation that we will not become entangled again in the issue of prestige. As I said at the outset, today before this high assembly is a very important step and if we were in a normal allowable time, everyone should only wish for the project well. But we cannot help but overlook the elections whose result is to take place today in some way in the first step, a strong shadow of legitimacy or, if you want me to express myself in a purely legal way, a question of legitimacy. And those who think ahead of time – and the candidate for the Prime Minister – should do so, and I think that everyone else in this assembly should also ask themselves what will happen when – and once it will — and not so far in the future — this shadow is confirmed and a fact will come out of suspicion. So the shadow of legitimacy over these elections works time after elections, which should be different, very specific. It's not just about the Patria affair, which has affected the elections for the fourth time, and I'm going to say that now with physical illumination. It is also the fact that we are sitting today in this national assembly of representatives of half the electoral body. Half the citizens and citizens did not vote on 13 July. Can you imagine how this question would have been highlighted if the election result had been different, for example, reversed? What are the addresses of the Slovenian newspapers? Now it's like nobody's worried. And that's what worries me personally. And if I were a candidate for Prime Minister, I would be even more concerned. For the first time in Slovenia, election participation was so low, but it was amazing in Slovenian media for the still good. What else is good will be seen when the consequences come. If someone else may not have understood these words regarding the question of the question of the legitimacy of elections, perhaps another comparison from some such numbered socialism. Now is a famous opportunity from the mid-1970s when Yugoslav dictator Joseph Broz Tito was on one of the last, I will say in quotations, "healthy visits to Slovenia" and, of course, he also went as usual to hunt in one of the state hunting grounds. The servants in the Slovenian Communist nomenclature were to satisfy him, there on the edge of the forest tied a bear, he shot him without knowing that he was bound of course, and then they lined up and congratulated him. I ask Mr Cerar if he would also congratulate the hunter who shot the bound bear. As far as the programme itself is concerned, it is not the first time that it appears on such occasions that before every government, what will be named, or any other, and before every Prime Minister, the candidates for the Prime Minister first, very difficult work. First on the very composition of the government and then on the rule. The situation is such that this work would be difficult for every government, even the most capable and also with the most accurate programme. As I said before, we Slovenians are divided. Half of them believe in parliamentary democracy, and half of them go to elections, the other half give up, they don't believe that they can change anything by their voice, or they're scared, they're aware of everything that's been going on. However, Slovenia is divided into half that has given up on parliamentary democracy and the rest, divided by ideological divisions. And more than anything else that has been discussed so far, this is a key problem for Slovenia. This fateful division, caused by revolution and genocide, with remains of red apartheid, with monopolies and also with failed transition. The Prime Minister's candidate said that our key problem when he tried to diagnose the situation was immaturity. That word was used. If I may say so, this diagnosis is very superficial. If the situation in which we are were merely a result of some immaturity, then we would sit down and wait for us to grow up, and everything would be better. I'm afraid that's not the case. This diagnosis also very much reminds us of the times there at the end of the 1980s when, in this same hall, when it was not yet renovated, we talked about how we are all guilty of the crisis in which we are and how we all have to seal the belt. And economic stabilisation programmes were being developed until the sad end of that country. So it's not a matter of maturity, but it's a question of some kind of fateful division. I am pleased that the candidate for Prime Minister of this issue has at least roughly touched on the positive side, and we will also be happy to support possible next steps if we move from words to actions here. In the program presented here, if I've heard anything, please correct me, but I haven't heard a single number and not a single hand. I do not think that any candidate for Prime Minister has ever presented a programme in which there would be no number and no deadline. If times were good, normal and prosperous and we had a privatised economy, without fear of the influences of the country and so on, a society in which the state no longer interferes with it than is absolutely necessary, then we could say fine, because some of this will be done in every area, something will not happen. Because there are no measurable criteria, someone will say that the glass is half full, the other one is half empty. Life will go on. The problem is, we're not in such a state that we don't drink honey and milk. The external environment, both economically and politically, is becoming increasingly difficult around the country, and therefore this national assembly would have earned at least a few key numbers and at least a few key deadlines for the entire Slovenian public. The candidate for Prime Minister has another performance and we can be pleasantly surprised, but I think it will be very difficult to make a substantive decision if this programme does not receive any concreteity. We're all going to stand up for something. That is clear, but here in this National Assembly today we are not deciding on a candidate for president of a scientific research foundation, but we are deciding on a candidate for Prime Minister. And this function, this business is brutal. If anything, you've been running into numbers since the first minute. A cruel reality. And it takes every minute to decide exactly the numbers and the hands, what, how long, how long. If things are not prepared in the future at least when it comes to macroeconomic frameworks, then there is chaos in record time. Even if you don't decide, if you're responding to challenges, we're going to study and set up commissions and new ministries and offices, someone else decides. But he decides what is in his best interest. As far as these particular statements are concerned, I am concerned about this non-salantity, which has not come to the for the first time today, but we have also listened to it in recent weeks, not to say months since the party which has the majority in this national assembly, there is a key economic problem that Slovenia has. Our key problem is that we are too indebted and that we spend too much, that the scissors are increasingly locked up here, that despite a very serious situation, those who create public opinion, and those who decide, of course, you don't want numbers, too, to get into some illusion that the situation isn't like that yet. In debt, for example, it is an illusion that we are not yet 100 percent of the public debt relative to the annual gross domestic product, that our neighbouring country Italy is already over 100 percent, at 100 percent, and that we still have time and space and we can still owe ourselves. Looking at real numbers, economic growth, or better said stagnation, the macroeconomic results of all the years since 2009, when we were hit by the crisis, or when we were mainly guilty of falling into the crisis, and in which we still showed that we had very much borrowed, virtually none of it has been invested, that the money for interest in the annual budgets is increasing dramatically, went through more than ten percent of the annual budget just for interest, without principals, and that money is leaving Slovenia. The neighbouring country of Italy, which is actually more indebted to us, is not only a larger economy, but the Italian state is, in fact, in 70 per cent in charge of domestic financial institutions. When Italian taxpayers pay this government debt back every year, this goes to 70% and more, in the domestic accounts, the Italian financial institutions that borrowed the money. This money circulates within the Italian national economy, creates new jobs, contributes to economic growth, development, prosperity, public sector costs or the functioning of the public sector and so on. In Slovenia, however, this picture is reversed – with us more than 70% of the money that is sovereign debt and which we pay back goes to foreign financial institutions, which – this will be of interest to a colleague there on the left – of course Slovenia likes to borrow very much. The countries with socialist rhetoric that like to be indebted are the world's best friend of financial capitalists. So there's this incredible symbiosis that works, and it's no wonder that, say, Mr Soros has a lot of zeal to finance left-wing organisations all over the world, but at the same time it serves billions of interest. The fact that we are in charge and that we have to pay back a billion interest each year and a few billion principals is a very big problem. And this problem is so much greater because budget spending in Slovenia has been in itself for a long time now, since 2007, significantly greater than inflows. On the one hand, we need to pay back more and more, and this money goes mainly out, does not circulate within the economic system or the financial system of the country, and on the other hand we are borrowing more. The most unpleasant news for the candidate for Prime Minister and for the government, which is very likely to be confirmed in this National Assembly for the mandate ahead of you, is that, even if it does not last for four years, these scissors will be closed. And in this speech I have not heard any formula for this time, which is indisputably coming. Unless he is hidden somewhere else, he does not purposely want to upset the Slovenian public, a concrete programme with numbers and deadlines, and a negotiating tactic behind with the European institutions, with which the new government will be prepared to meet this inevitable challenge. If that's the case, I apologize, and I'll be very happy. There has been a lot of talk here about how the rule of law will solve all problems. Firstly, the rule of law itself will not solve anything. The rule of law is a prerequisite that all social systems and subsystems can function normally and the rule of law itself does not solve anything and is just some necessary formalistic framework that can work for good or for bad. The Russian Federation is also a legal state, but it is not governed by the rule of law, but we know who and Belarus and so on. North Korea is also, in some ways, a state of law, has laws, has a police force that oversees the implementation of these laws. The former SFRJ was also a rule of law. So the rule of law itself does not solve anything, but the rule of law does. And if the new government advocates the rule of law and respect for human rights, it will have all our support. Unfortunately, the statistics recently presented show that there is a very big problem. Over the past 10 years, more than a thousand Slovenian judges have violated human rights, according to the findings of the Slovenian Constitutional Court or the European Court of Human Rights. This is not an amateur assessment, these are official facts, and in more than 400 court cases that have already experienced epilogues at this time. However, since we know that the legal mills are such that they are slowly grinding, especially in Slovenia and even in Europe sometimes, it is necessary to know that more than 100 such cases are still in the process and that this number will be significantly larger for 10 years. If we have in a country where I think less than a thousand judges or something like that, more than 400 individual judgments involving more than a thousand judges have been officially confirmed to have violated human rights, then talking about living in a country where human rights are respected is no more than a bad joke. And we haven't heard anything about how we're going to deal with this problem. In addition to the three words that we have not yet matured, I remember the most from this talk. These words are rehabilitation, stabilisation and restructuring. Even those words, if possible, I think that Mr Hainz was sitting in this Chamber before it was renovated when there was a socialist assembly here, and those words were heard many times, especially in the 1980s and 1990s. And we know what the epilogue was like. Basically, there's nothing wrong with them. But the problem is, as I said before, there were no numbers and no hands. And the bigger problem is that we obviously get here from the very top a very bad example. The government is expected to increase by a quarter from 12 to 15 reactors. Now it's not so important that the three cabinets will be more, and then, as a result, a few more 10 different offices and so on. This in itself is not such a huge cost in absolute numbers. The problem is that this is an example at the very top. Since 1996, when we have mainly rounded up the establishment of a independent Slovenian state with all institutions, the Slovenian bureaucracy has increased to 42 000 500 employees. Some of this is justified, some of it is not, but after we have already had everything necessary for the normal functioning of the country, after we have gone to the European Union, and we no longer have such a need for customs, by border control, except partly at one border, by foreign exchange inspection and so on. By the way, after we took over the euro, Banka Slovenije also increased by 100 employees, although it has fewer than a third of its functions. Since 1996 hundreds of new state and parastatal offices, institutions and agencies have been established. I was the Prime Minister twice, and I never thought to list half of them if I read them so much that they couldn't be remembered. And that, even if the Prime Minister is working hard, is suddenly growing like mushrooms in the rain. However, if the government is alone to increase the number of resources and forecast new offices, and so on, it sets a bad example, then do not expect any restructuring to take place without major problems. In early 2013, before the granite cube revolution began, which placed the previous government in power, it was not the government, but it was the authorities, it was the people who were still employed by Slovenian ministries and who were capable of making assessments of where they could be saved and where not, where the number of employees needed to be reduced and where they could possibly be increased. It was not so easy to get these estimates and these numbers, but these analyses exist, they are somewhere, I think they haven't been erased from computers, you just have to take them out and do something in terms of real restructuring. It will be very difficult for some ministry to demand that certain offices, where work doubles, be abolished if you create new ministries yourself. It is not as much a direct cost as it is an example, and in the end it will not be 3 million more budgetary expenditure, but it will go on to 30 and then 90 million new costs. What is the alternative to what we criticize? For all the things listed here as reforms, the need for change, restructuring, rehabilitation and so on, there are not only conceptual solutions that have been developed, but there are also largely operationalised solutions. These are drafts and bills, including those already proposed in the previous two mandates, which were rejected in this national assembly. Most of this was proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, including Nova Slovenija, the Slovenian People's Party, which was under the previous mandate. I would still take this out and look, because in legal solutions there are numbers, there are concrete measures, there are deadlines, there are international comparisons. One of the key wealth that Slovenia has acquired by entering the European Union is the wealth of good practice. There is no country in the European Union that does not have well-ordered things. No country has everything perfectly arranged, but in every country there is something worth imitating, and it is worth serving. Much of this, when it comes to concrete solutions, has already been very accurately described in these proposals, which have been rejected since 2009 mainly because there was a paradigm or the belief that these are wrong solutions, how to borrow only 5 billion more, because the storm will pass, we will close the umbrellas, the sun will shine and everything will flourish more than before. This has not happened or happened only in those countries that have implemented these measures. As a result of the delay, Slovenia will pay a much higher price. But these scissors are about to close down right now. This result of the elections, if I simplify it a little bit, there is an ideological two-thirds majority in this national assembly, it may seem at the beginning, on the one hand a blessing, and on the other hand a curse, because this problem will have to be solved and there will be no excuses, as it has been so far, that the coalition is weak, there is no two-thirds for some constitutional changes, even though we have always supported, even when we were the opposition, urgent constitutional changes. There won't be any excuses now. Despite the fact that at least today, a programme has been presented at the very beginning, which in fact can be signed largely by everyone because it does not bind anything, it does not untie anything. On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, I promise that any good measure will be supported by the party, any measure that goes in the direction of solving these problems, regardless of whether the elections and the results of these elections raise the suspicion of legitimacy, which, in the mandate before you, will also be confirmed, will be carried out responsibly. That word was also used. We don't need to be afraid. We have always acted responsibly, and we will now. But we also expect responsibility from those who have or will have scissors and linen in your hands. We will support any reform measure that deserves that name. I hope that the pressure of the European Union will also make them as far as possible beyond the anti-reform of the coalition treaty and that then, somewhere between the draft and the proposal, they will not fail, such as that commitment to investigate the bank hole. It is very interesting, by the way, that it was first said that this was one of the key programme commitments of the coalition contract, and then none of the future coalition partners noticed that this key part had failed. And only the press noticed that. I hope that the measures will not do anything similar. The Slovenian Democratic Party will, as it has done so far in this mandate, irrespective of this suspicion of the legitimacy of the elections and the outcome, and will also support good solutions for Slovenia. As has already been said, many of these solutions have already been made, you just have to look through the ministries, and we can help you with copies. We all want these good solutions to be, regardless of all the other concerns that I have listed, as much as possible. It'll be better for everyone if there's as many as possible and if they get to the table as quickly as possible. However, as I have said before, the result of these questionable legitimate elections is the first time in Slovenian history since we have elections to Parliament, where more parties can take part in these elections, that one political bloc has received not only a convincing but a two-thirds majority. I believe that Mr. Cerar was not worth too much trying to get another client formally into the coalition, because why would he buy something you already have? This is never paid, and the two-thirds majority is, as I said before, a blessing, on the one hand, if the government is serious and, on the other hand, there is also some concrete programme with numbers and hands. But it could be a curse. And the future will show which of these will come true. In any event, the result is that the opposition does not have to assume any responsibility, unless it supports good proposals if they come to them if the Government sends them to the National Assembly. And here, for the first time since 1990, on a page that has a constitutional majority, is the perfect responsibility for what will happen in the country in the coming years, as long as this majority exists. The fact that there is complete jurisdiction, complete power, and complete authority in the hands of one or more options also means that all accounts will eventually come to a well - known address. That's what's gonna happen soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u19	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia and for it by Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u20	Honourable President of the National Assembly, dear colleagues and colleagues, all present! I can say that the party DeSUS, its parliamentary group, will of course support the candidate for Prime Minister Dr Mir Cerar. Not least, on Sunday evening, July 13, the results were known. He won too much in my opinion, but congratulations anyway. But with regard to July 13th, I would say that. For all of us, this was a very bad date, a very bad time for elections. But we all had to compete, no matter when this election was going on. So with regard to the legitimacy of the elections, I think the elections were legitimate. It is a pity that justice in Slovenia does not work faster. I think the Supreme Court could prevent a lot of embarrassment if it worked faster. Because this is a matter mentioned by the opposition champion, which is a sensitive political issue that burdens Slovenia's political space, even from today's debate, we have been able to hear that elections are illegal, that there is a problem of the rule of law and so on. I agree that there are probably problems with the functioning of the rule of law. If we actually look at what's going on in our society, if we look at these tycoon stories, what's going on in banks. Last but not least, the banks are to blame for our debt. We have recapitalised banks for EUR 5 billion, so I am pleased that it is clear that in the coalition agreement we will also be responsible for this bank hole. I must say that, as president of one of the parties, which is particularly in favour of the elderly, it is unalterable to me that we always find the means to rehabilitate banks, there is no problem to invest hundreds of millions in this banking system, which we see that, despite the fact that we have recapitalised it, it still does not work effectively. Listen to economists, entrepreneurs, they're still talking about bank cramps. On the other hand, there are 40, 50, or 100 million who are destined for those who have built this country with their past work. I am therefore pleased that, through the coalition negotiations, the winning party has also seen that these burdens of crisis need to be distributed evenly across the population. I must say that it would be good for us to be more optimistic especially on a day like this when we get a new Prime Minister. See, Slovenia was a success story by 2008. I remember how they used us as an example of a successful transition country, that we are doing well to be a model country. It is true, however, that when this global crisis came, there were also shortcomings and certain errors that had not been corrected in the past or that we had not made enough early structural changes. We probably missed the right time to privatise, but at the time we were under the impression of national interest. Consider the case of the Tobacco Factory, which was a classic example of how to make the atmosphere against foreign strategic partners. Today we see that there has been a lot behind this national interest. But as I say, I think we can still be optimistic. See, Slovenia has an ideal geostrategic position, we lie between 5 and 10 corridors, we are the most in the north, as far as the Adriatic Sea is concerned, Luka Koper is certainly a strategic point. If we had improved this railway infrastructure in particular, I am sure we would have done the most for our economy. And not only for many companies, but also for small companies that could find income through these projects. But the problem is that in Slovenia we also have a moral crisis. We are under the impression of various mega-Romanian projects. Look, second track, the price is a billion 300 million euros. This means EUR 56 million for one kilometer of railway. I wonder if it's really necessary to take that train that's gonna be basically a freight train 200 an hour? Wouldn't it be better to rationalize, have a second track, but more rational? Not such enormous amounts that are usually lost in various tycoon stories. A similar story is unfortunately TES 6. If we look at the 600 million that the investment was originally planned, now it's a billion 400, and I don't know if that's enough. I mean, we're not completely on the real level anymore when we go into some new investment. We also know what happened to the highway cross and where the so-called highway barons landed. We have a similar story in health care. We also have a very difficult job to do here because different lobbyists draw on the resources that we all pay for having some quality public health care where every citizen in this country who would get sick would be due to age or accidents, or because he was spent in the work process to have a spider up to some normal treatment. And I think these are the things that this government will have to set a course and break through certain things. But it won't be easy, and we'll see what difficult obstacles await us. But as I say, I think we'd need a little more optimism. I think Slovenia has all the conditions. Even if we listened to the president of the biggest opposition party, we have a strong enough majority to do certain things. But I would warn you that there is more than one strong majority in the National Assembly. It is important to know that there is also a need for a broader social consensus. We have civil society here. In particular, here I am referring to trade unions, where it will be necessary to find a social agreement, how we go together in these changes, in these reforms. I still remember the 2004-2008 mandate when macroeconomic analyses showed that Slovenia would have 55,000 unemployed somewhere so that public finances could function normally. Because this would mean that we would have a normal rate of income and both very important cash registers would have enough contributions to make them function normally. Here I am thinking particularly of the pension and health allowance. I must say that as President of the DeSUS party, I am also very pleased with the negotiations on the coalition agreement on our expectations. We are pleased that an additional 40 million euros will be found for these pensioners, and believe me, this money will quickly return to the budget through taxes because this money will not remain somewhere in socks, but will surely go straight to public spending. I'm also very happy to say that what the number is, I must warn you, 40 million is quite clear. It is also quite clear that we will start coordination of pensions if there is growth of 2.5%. I sincerely hope that there will be this economic growth, that this is not about us being in some kind of regression all the time. However, I would like to point out that there will be something else to be done in the area of the grey economy. Here, in the field of taxes, I think you should re-classify every account counts. This seems to me to be the most effective way and I would like to draw attention in particular to the establishment of a very fair tax system. Look, in the real estate law, I can tell you that one of the problems is that he was unjust. And here, if we don't fairly burden the population with the tax so far, I think we're going to have some problems. It has been said that in the public sector since 1996, we have employed an additional 40,000 people. I would have warned here, but the public sector has two dimensions. One is the state administration, the state administration. Here I agree, those who know the ministry, the local self-government, the administrative units, I think there may be some reserves here that, of course, also need to be negotiated with the union. However, I do not agree with the part where we talk about health care or the care of older people. Look, this is about us raising the social state. Every home of the elderly means a higher quality in terms of building a modern social state. Even if in hospitals, because we know that there is a shortage of doctors, if there is an increase in the number, it means that we have achieved greater accessibility and quality, as far as health care is concerned. I think that special attention should also be paid to social entrepreneurship. I remember the debates, the Lisbon Strategy, there was a motto as much added value to the job as possible. The fact that EUR 40,000 is added is nothing, that was not enough under the Lisbon Strategy. 100 grand or more, and then that's the right one. And I think we made a big mistake here. Every job counts, every job that is healthy brings social security to the worker. I therefore believe that this component of social entrepreneurship will have to be given special attention. See, a worker who earns for his salary and even if the company does not have an extra profit or does not increase his capital, but allows the worker to have a salary to pay all taxes, that is one quality. Because there is no need for the employment agency to take care of its compensations and to maintain its working condition. And let's not think about the social effects if you have a job, if you have a job. We know what happens to people who are long-term unemployed, what family stories are hidden here. That is why I think that this segment of social entrepreneurship is strongly supported by us in DeSUS. That I will not be too long because I see the clock running, I would like to tell the President of the Government, otherwise you are not yet, but I am sure that over something, depending on how long the debate goes on, I want you a lot of courage, smart decisions and we will work together well.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u21	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear candidate for the term of office of Mr Cerar, distinguished colleague, distinguished colleague! Unlike my two predecessors, I will not go into the government's work, because today we are talking about a candidate for a term of office. And I believe that when Mr Cerar introduces the government team, he will also present the figures, the timeline and everything that is necessary for good governance. Once again, honourable President of the National Assembly, distinguished candidate for Prime Minister of the Government and respected colleagues and colleagues! We recently had early elections in Slovenia. Second time in a row. Some time after the great economic and financial crisis that has pushed Slovenia into a group of countries with the most severe consequences, we have been silently justifying political instability through this particular financial and economic crisis. It seemed that the governments after the crisis did not find the right answers and the right solutions, which would start turning the indicators for the better. Otherwise, a slight recovery was detected under the leadership of the last government. However, overly optimistic that Slovenia will begin to gather visibly, it is not possible if we do not have a stable political picture in the future. Just after realizing that we are not to detect the desired recovery not only because of the crisis itself, but because of the great political uncertainty and instability, we are at the point, ladies and gentlemen, when we must make the right decisions if we really want to do our country well. On questions of what are the right decisions, however, each individual and each party can interpret themselves. The answer to this question is clear and simple. The right decisions are decisions whose consequences will prove to be in political stability and the ability to change the lives of our citizens and citizens for the better. Shortsightedness and political accountability in these decisions should not have room. The last early elections are proof of that, Your Honor. These have shown that people want a different policy, that people want a stable policy. Even when trust was mostly awarded to the news on the political floor, the Mir Cerar Party. The choice and support of candidates for the Prime Minister is thus not just a choice of policy and its interests, as some wish to interpret. In the first place, it is a criterion for responsible treatment of people. The latter is thus the basis of our decision today to support or not support the proposal for a mandate holder. If we had customers or if we had customers as far left and right before the elections full of action in favour of people, today, my dears, is the hour of truth. The hour of truth when it turns out who's serious. We Social Democrats have also shown in the past a stance that has created pre-party interests in a state-of-the-art way. Even though the past government under the leadership of Alenka Bratusek had a short mandate, in which the troika was so much outside the door, we were prepared to take responsibility. However, the responsibility to a country that is ahead of client mathematics is the only right and possible solution if we are to successfully cross the path from the abyss of crisis. Today, I am pleased to see that, despite the fact that our client has been exposed to the government of Mrs Alenka Bratušek, we are able to see that the economic indicators have turned in a positive direction. In these elections, citizens and citizens, who sit in parliamentary benches, have entrusted us with such a voice that we will act responsibly and prudently. That is why today the words about the future coalition, the numbers, the coalition treaty, and the words of dissatisfaction, the words of impropriety and, above all, the words of who will sit in the government and who will not. These words, ladies and gentlemen, are completely superfluous. Today's decision to support Dr. Mir Cerar as Prime Minister must be weighed in a way that answers one question. Are we going to choose the path of political stability or maturity, or are we going to bring everything down on account of resentment, resentment and political calculus? Members and Members of the Social Democrats will do as we have promised our constituents and voters. We'll act responsibly. We will work for citizens and citizens. We will act by taking the path of political stability leading to a new government. Thus, we will unanimously support the proposal for candidate for Prime Minister Dr. Mir Cerar. For Mr Cerar, today is a particularly important day. And I am putting personality before some other things, so today, Mr Miro, I wish you well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u23	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, Mr Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u24	Dear Mr President of the National Assembly, a respected candidate for a term of office, a respected assembly, respectable comrades and comrades! In my address, I will briefly present what the United Left expects from the candidate for the mandate and from the next government. Slovenia's political space has been firmly on the right for the last 20 years. In particular, since the start of the crisis, virtually all political parties in Slovenia have agreed to a dictatorship of circumstances and therefore exclusively neoliberalist policies. These are supposed to be some kind of historical necessity that the manoeuvre of Slovenian governments should be limited to policies that work on capital. All ruling parties from the beginning of the crisis, from Social Democracy through SDS to Positive Slovenia, have thus agreed to privatisation, abolition of the social state, reduction of labour rights, bullying trade unions, deprivation of democracy, exclusion of the public from decision-making processes. Nevertheless, many politicians, especially those who call themselves leftists, like to say that they personally disagree with such policies, but that simply Slovenian politics has no choice. Non-human policies would impose financial markets on us, the European Union or experts to flee the country. Every excuse is handy. They prevent us from simply following some of the new iron laws of history, as we have heard in history. And that is why, with this indiscretion, governments have done irreparable damage in Slovenia in recent years. In the United Left, we therefore expect the new Slovenian government to begin to think at least so much that it will put these iron laws of history and dictate circumstances under the question that it will put the interests of the European Union, financial markets and capital before the interests of the population. In order to ask how it is possible that in 2014, once again more than 20 years ago, unemployment has exceeded the 1993 record; how can it be that today, despite the evidenced technological development and productivity growth, for the first time since the Second World War in Slovenia and in Europe, there are generations that will live worse than their parents; why in Slovenia in 2014 an eighth of the population must live below the poverty threshold; why in Slovenia, despite the incentives for the economy, as we have called them, why investments have more than halved over the past 5 years; what are the effects of our salaries will actually have on the rich and capital; what are the effects of solving the crisis with liberal medicines and what are the objectives of such policies; what is the objective of saving policy; when our wages will be sufficiently competitive when we are at the level of Slovakia, Romania or at the level of Bangladesh, what are the consequences of the crisis that Slovenia is always taking on, and why the European perfers are still in Europe are the face of the crisis. These are just some of the questions that the future government and candidate for a mandate-holder should ask themselves. We hope, of course, that they have, but the draft coalition treaties we are reading offer again, as solutions, precisely those policies that have brought us into the crisis and which do not prove to be a solution, but they are deepening it. Apparently, the government has also inherited liberal economic dogma in its creation, and believes that despite the obvious social and economic catastrophe, the courses of past governments have in principle been true. It believes that employees in Slovenia do not need more security but more flexibility; that the problem is not investment but competitiveness and too high labour costs; that state ownership is an obstacle, not an opportunity for development; that fiscal rule needs to be implemented but not deleted from the Constitution; that we need privatisation; that the present resolution of the crisis in Europe has only been successful, as we have heard recently, that Slovenia should be too slow in these harmful reforms. So the new government seems to agree once again that the main interest to be heard in this society is the interest of capital. This puts the draft coalition agreement against the interests of all those who need to sell their labour to survive, against the interests of teachers, journalists, prekers, industrial workers, unemployed, pensioners, students and so on. In capitalism, which is a class company, it is necessary to choose a side and the future government indicates that it will choose the wrong side of capital. The United Left has taken a firm stand on the side of the work, so we cannot give support to the candidate for a term of office today. However, we hope that if confirmed today as a mandate holder, Dr. Miro Cerar will be able to be wise enough to listen to the voices of reason, which are also becoming louder in Slovenian society. In contrast to past prime ministers and prime ministers, he will understand the impact of the advice of the Chamber of Commerce, AmCham – American Economic Chambers, the European Union and other capital lobbying on the lives of the people here. And that we will finally get a prime minister who will question the sense and urgency of the neoliberal consensus and the new iron laws of history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u25	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Ludmila Novak, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u26	Mr President, a respected candidate for a term of office, a colleague and a colleague! In the last elections, voters made their will clear and voted in favour of the Peace Cerar Party. It is therefore understandable and logical that the President of the State entrusted Dr Mir Cerar with the role of candidate for term of office. New Slovenia has been invited by the winner of the elections to coalition negotiations, so I thank you for this invitation and for your confidence. Given that the voters, despite the best programme to get out of the New Slovenia crisis, gave only 5.7% of the vote, we were aware that our negotiating venues were weaker than if the party had received higher support in the elections. The highest responsibility for forming the government and running the country is vested in the party with the highest support. New Slovenia is not afraid to take responsibility for the tasks that have been or will be entrusted to us. But we want to take responsibility for what we think is right and good for Slovenia. And at this very point, our negotiations have stopped. Since the future mandate holder for the majority was looking for a common point in the future coalition, it is understandable that he could not take most of our proposals into account. At some points, we have drawn closer to each other, but there is no willingness to move more decisively and the necessary reforms required by the economy and, above all, the empty state treasury. While maintaining the same way of solving problems as before and without urgent reforms, there is no expectation of an improvement in the situation, a major deterioration. The new Slovenia has proposed stronger reforms in the areas of health, taxes, public administration, judiciary, labour law, which are urgently needed and which Europe has been reminding us for a long time. Since reforms at the outset can also be unpleasant and in the long term improve the situation, it is an extremely important component of the coalition and, above all, a good and clear coalition treaty that accurately defines the programme of coalitions and relations within it. It is precisely the strength of the coalition and the determination to change that depends on the success of the implementation and the duration of the government. From the very beginning of the negotiations, as well as at the time of the electoral campaign, we have stressed that we want to carry out our programme in a solid coalition, but we do not want to join the government at all costs. When we have found that our views on reforms are quite different and are going in a number of different directions, we have concluded that it is better to be in opposition than to cause a government crisis due to disagreement within government parties when they are already leading the country. Following our withdrawal from the negotiations, the coalition agreement, unfortunately, was marred by most of New Slovenia's proposals. Maybe coalition partners are now more satisfied and united, but less satisfied is the economy, which expected more incentives and less taxes. The new Slovenia does not protect the rich, but we want all the working and responsible citizens to be richer or less poor, especially to have a job and to make work worthwhile. Changes in the number of ministries are again envisaged, which is, of course, possible and also legitimate. Many employees and various departments remind us that each time changes bring new congestion to their work. Instead of improving the efficiency of the bureaucratic apparatus, employees are engaged in moving, dividing balance sheets, new systems, adapting the information system and so on. In doing so, they are running out of time for basic activities and new costs are being incurred and, therefore, such an urgent reorganisation of each government should be carefully thought out and indeed weighed. Above all, it should go towards reducing ministries and not increasing them. New Slovenia does not see in the emerging coalition programme the necessary concrete proposals to promote economic growth and new jobs and sufficient measures for other reforms, so we will not support the Government's terminator, Dr Mir Cerar. But we will always support all the government proposals that we will assess to help better Slovenia and to improve the lives of all citizens. We will also strive for reconciliation and cooperation regardless of political affiliation. We will also take our initiatives and expect the support of government parties, of course if you agree with us. Dear Dr. Miro Cerar, no matter how much we don't support you today as a terminator, we sincerely congratulate you on your birthday. We wish you many healths, strengths, today you will receive a great gift, even a country, and this gift is also very difficult and difficult. Good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u27	The text is given by the Alliance of Allies of Alenka Bratušek, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u28	The honourable assembly, Members, Members, President and, of course, Mr Miro Cerar, the future mandate-holder! Today is really a special day. It is always a special day at each term and usually a happy day for those who make up the coalition. Why? Because a body, a mandate-holder who will have the opportunity to form a government, will essentially be formed, one who will trust or justify the confidence to implement that programme, which has also been established by the Coalition Treaty. What is even more important than this is that it will create the results that it is intended to achieve, and of course this is our shared responsibility, regardless of coalition and opposition, that the results will be such that, of course, they will be justified and good for all of Slovenia. But today I can certainly say that it is only an interesting day, not happy, because we have also introduced a new practice. Today, not only has he spoken here to us a respected candidate for a term of office, but he has also spoken to a prisoner, a Member of Parliament. And this, of course, is not an honor, nor an incentive for this House, which will in fact shape a policy for some further time, unfortunately, I am afraid to say, the whole mandate, although it is right to do so for the whole mandate. And since today the candidate for a mandate holder has spoken about morality and ethics, it is good to know that these instruments must be set up first in this national assembly, in this body, because we expect to establish them in all the authorities in the country, and we cannot do so here. The second thing that is important to me and to the Alliance Group is that we were as pleased as in New Slovenia when we were invited to form a coalition or negotiate for a future coalition. And it really happened again for the first time in the history of Slovenia. Usually, when you invite someone, it means you're talking to them about a coalition agreement, cooperation, partnership, and if you can't find common points, either software or human resources solutions, you're breaking up, which is normal, normal. This path did not happen for these two reasons, but it did happen for reasons that were essentially a kind of novelty. They did not like a party who, of course, did not enjoy confidence because the government had completed its mandate prematurely. Let me warn you, the Allied Party did not exist at the time of Alenka Bratušek, at least not at her resignation. She didn't exist. It was a long time later. She went to the elections and got the smallest result, but enough confidence to be able to participate and participate in the decision-making process in the National Assembly. What is still interesting to us is that today we have only heard one reform, a health reform. But we all know that at least two reforms are missing. And they know this in both DeSUS and other coalition partners, who will participate in this coalition, and this is a labour market reform, not just a reform of any law or two, and a reform of the pension system, because the National Assembly, when adopting the pension reform, has made it clear, lastly, that a new reform will be urgently needed within two years. For the next four years, however, the Coalition Treaty does not provide for any pension reform, and this is certainly not the best prospect for the future. But since the coalition agreement is still on the rise, I believe that the partners in the coalition will be able to do so much power and pour themselves pure wine to prepare, of course, those starting points that will be good and sustainable for this Slovenia. For you know, the coalition contract is about as chewing gum is possible and impossible. When it's signed, we do what we usually do with gum. Only one difference is, chewing gum doesn't fall apart. And I hope you're aware that the coalition treaty breaks down the moment things become unsustainable. And what is important to us is that, no matter what happens today, Mr Miro Cerar becomes the mandate-holder with his trust in the electorate and, ultimately, the majority he holds in the National Assembly. With respect, I am sure that you will be able to make a great deal of courage, reason and not least a handful of wisdom political craftsmanship, to endure within the coalition as long as possible, and in particular that you will succeed not only with rhetorical findings to bring what you really want, but also with results. We in the Alliance are sincerely giving you support, which you will also receive today, because it is time for you to take power in the country as soon as possible and take steps that are obviously not easy and which will not make you all like you. Congratulations! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u29	The word is given by the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group, Dr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, distinguished candidates for the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar! On this occasion, I should like to point out, first of all, that Members of indigenous national communities, due to the nature of their mission, cannot be an integral part of any coalition. And that's the way it is. This does not mean, of course, that the creation of a government and its subsequent actions and proposals in the event of agreement with substantive and personal solutions would not be supported. In the appointment of the mandate holder, it has always been essential – and still today – whether the candidate is clearly entrusted with the electorate and the electorate, whether his approach to solving the pressing substantive and systemic issues of the State and society is properly addressed primarily in terms of economic efficiency, the rule of law, democracy, social sensitivity and respect for human rights. In our context, however, its approach to the conservation and development of national communities and its willingness to address current problems in this area is particularly important. Let me say that my colleague Battelli and I estimate that, in the case of Mr Cerar's proposal for a mandate holder, the conditions mentioned are largely met. This means that today the candidate will receive our support. As far as our dilemma is concerned. In the coming days, we expect both the mandate holder and the ministries of candidates to point to concrete and realistic options or solutions in relation to the rehabilitation of public financial debt, the effectiveness of the justice system and the control mechanisms and the real recovery of the economy and job creation. Our final support for government support will also depend on this. However, I must point out that in a substantively rich discussion with a potential mandate-holder and with his close colleagues, we have been able to directly convince him of his sincere intention to take a step forward in the field of the rule of law and political culture in general. Together we have found that there is unfortunately a major problem of society in Slovenia, that legislation is almost nowhere to be implemented consistently, most often also a source of problems and insurmountable problems of their resolution in various areas. For decades we have also faced this problem in the area of minority issues. There is no doubt that we have laws of view concerning the rights and formal functioning of indigenous national communities. However, there is also no content where they would be consistently implemented. Practically in the field of the implementation of legislation in the field of nationality, we daily find a significant gap between regulatory regulation and the implementation of the provisions in practice. All governments in the last 10 years have rightly found that this inconsistencies are indisputable. There was also an attempt to do something, but for a real qualitative breakthrough only there was not enough readiness or time was simply running out. In the national community, we strongly hope that, in the case of the Government of Mr Mir Cerar, this will not be the case and that the activities needed to improve the situation will be systematically established and actually done. We have the highest hopes in this regard for successful talks with the largest party of the potential coalition, where we have worked together to ensure that the latest version of the draft coalition contract takes into account the law, laws and international treaties in force the rights of members and members of the Italian and Hungarian national communities in Slovenia. It is very important that the potential coalition undertakes to upgrade the status achieved in order to effectively improve the realization of the rights of indigenous national communities. The potential coalition is committed to the preparation and adoption of the law on indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities, as has already been highlighted by the candidate, and to the meaningful upgrading of other legislation, further to the consistent exercise of bilinguality in public administration, justice, public service providers and holders of public powers exercising the rights and obligations or legal benefits of indigenous national communities to prepare a comprehensive list and register the cultural heritage of both national communities, to effectively implement the economic base of national communities and, finally, to maintain the systemic budgetary financing of both indigenous national communities at existing level, with particular care for educational and other systems of national communities, including human resources. In order to finally be able to meet the government's commitments, it is not primarily the need for additional financial resources, but for a proper systematic and sincere approach to activities based on mutual trust. This will also require a very efficient, well-coordinated and content-oriented role of the Office of Nationality. The status of that office is appropriate. Competence issues and human resources solutions will need to be properly addressed. This must be approached immediately, i.e. at the time of the formation of the government itself, and this is what we expect from the potential mandate holder or his team. Let me finish. The expectations of indigenous national communities for a future government are very high. However, the candidate for the term of office is a source of hope, so, as I have already announced, he will receive our support. In making up the government and in all the solutions in the coming weeks, we particularly want a lot of wisdom and success. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u31	The word is given by the Group of the Mir Cerar Party, for her by Dr Simon Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u32	Mr President, a respected candidate for a term of office, an esteemed assembly, respectable citizens and citizens! In the eight parliamentary elections, for the second time in a row, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia elected us to lead our country on their behalf and for their good. This year's elections were held in difficult circumstances. For the majority in the Slovenian space so far, the electoral result expressed by the people in the democratic systems was the first and only owner of this country. When we decide today to appoint the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, we need to borrow some facts to serve as an explanation for understanding the current situation in the country. In the SMC Group, these facts will also serve as an explanation for the vote of support of Dr. Mir Cerar, the candidate for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia. The level of dissatisfaction and mistrust among citizens and citizens in politics, in the work of political institutions, in democracy, in the stability of the social system in our country has grown markedly over the past decade. Let me just illustrate with some of the most fundamental data. Only 6% of Slovenian citizens and citizens are still satisfied with the functioning of democracy in our country. He's more than a dozen times disgruntled. Less than 10% of citizens and citizens see the functioning of the democratic system as a good one. Five times more than that than bad. Less than 5% of citizens and citizens trust in the work of political parties. Around 10% of them trust in the work of the National Assembly and the Government, 15% in the work of the courts, 25% in media reporting. More than half of the citizens and citizens today believe that the country is in a difficult crisis. That's almost three times more than a bad decade ago. About 15% of the current situation in the country is assessed as being on the brink of disaster. Almost 60% of citizens and citizens estimate that the functioning of our country needs to be fundamentally changed. There was only 10% of those ten years ago. At the same time, only 35% of those who believe that the functioning of the system can be improved by gradual reforms have been halved in the last year. In the last year, 55% of citizens and citizens doubt that Slovenia is a social state. 65% doubt that it is a rule of law. Samples of the choice of political parties by voters and voters in Slovenia have become increasingly unclear over time. Loyalty to political parties and their programme promises is no longer burdensome, as it carried in the first 15 years of Slovenian parliamentary democracy. The ultimate confidence in the fundamental institution of the democratic political system, such as political parties and parliament, has been hampered by increasing evidence of the non-transparent functioning of a country in which both objective and often subjective responsibility has been borne by the political actors involved. All of this has led the majority of citizens and citizens to the final recognition of politics as dirty games. As a matter of fact, under the auspices of political parties, together with economic, financial and other vital social sub-systems dominated by their own, narrow interests, many of those who should otherwise care and fight for the well-being of people are engaged. In this way, the country and its individual vital parts began and people were excluded from political decision-making processes. In the last decade, political elites have offered alternatives and solutions that have failed the expectations of voters and voters. This situation, on the one hand, explains the high dissatisfaction and, on the other hand, the need for voters and voters to choose entirely new political actors over the last decade. In such circumstances, Slovenian voters and voters can no longer and do not believe in the current patterns of political behaviour, in the ways in which their will was managed and acted, and in particular what final results have been achieved. The level of general satisfaction, prosperity and progress in our country has fallen in proportion to the registered rise in the level of corruption in the system. The Slovenian economic and social model is expected to fall into its own crisis, which has only deepened at global level. Today, ahead of our policy, the task is to find and offer solutions that will bring the Slovenian economy back to the level of European competitiveness, while at the same time allowing for the preservation of such a social state as our citizens and citizens need and, above all, deserve. People have entrusted us with a mandate to establish a different political behaviour and political culture. To stop ideological divisions and create open and inclusive debates that will seek solutions to problems through knowledge and arguments. At the same time, it also requires a responsible attitude of political institutions towards their people. Only in open cooperation based on positive and forward-looking energy will we be able to look for and find solutions that will bring our society and economy back to a level that will make life better. In recent elections, people have reflected their will after new leadership, which will overcome past political practices through their way of action. Leading away from the primary internal political struggle for power towards action for public good, prosperity, respect, solidarity, towards a good, dedicated, transparent and honest work for people. We have committed ourselves to helping members and members of the SMC Group, with our knowledge and experience from the fields of economic, public, non-governmental action, to restore Slovenia to the path of an internationally established and, above all, to the people and actors in it, to an advanced democratic state. Together with our party president and candidate for the Slovenian government, Dr. Mir Cerar, we have committed ourselves to demonstrating, with our principles of collaborative, connecting and open action, that a well-established and guided policy is one of the fundamental tools and also to driving the progress of the country. We promised citizens and citizens a different policy – a policy based on arguments and professional judgements and not on divisions that weaken both people and society. We have promised a transparent and open policy that will listen, hear and serve the well-being of all citizens and citizens of our country and not just select groups of interests. We have entered politics on such principles and have received the majority trust of our citizens and citizens in elections, so we will be faithful to these principles in our work in Parliament and in the government. In the SMC Group, we are unanimously convinced that Dr. Miro Cerar, with his expertise and experience, will be able to identify problems in a fair and complex manner and their solutions, especially with his political integrity, credibility, committed, responsible, fair and successful leadership of our country along the way that our electorates and voters have dedicated to us, with their votes, the first and only once-in-a-lifetime holders of our country's power. On the basis of all of this, Members of the SMC will, in their votes, support the proposal of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect Dr. Mir Cerar as the new 12th President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u33	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal of the President of the Republic to elect Dr. Mir Cerar as Prime Minister, I am opening a debate on Members and Members. Mr Tomaž Gantar, Democratic Party of pensioners of Slovenia, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. Dear President of the National Assembly, Members and Members of Parliament, Mr President-in-Office! I think that we are all really aware of the situation that Slovenia is in, and also of its responsibilities, which we have gained with the confidence of the electorate. And that's why we're sitting here today. I also believe that we know that the period ahead of us is extremely difficult, extremely difficult, and that many of the changes that will have to be made to achieve, of course, as much consensus and understanding as possible, that this is the only right path. And that is why I think it is even more important that, when the candidate for Prime Minister Dr. Mir Cerar was presented, he stressed the values of mutual trust, the return of confidence in the rule of law, the participation of all in the interests and well-being of the country. And, of course, changes are needed, it is probably necessary to know that the solutions today are slightly different than they would have been 5 years ago or when Slovenia was in better shape than it is today. And hope gives me, of course, a return to values and, of course, what the coalition treaty stresses in the major cities – the values of the social state, where it will not be again the weakest, the most powerless, the main target of change and, of course, the main carrier of all measures and possible solutions for a better situation in the country. With this same one, of course, on the one hand, to the older population, on the other hand, to those I know better, to an area that I know better, this is health, of course, where we have many patients who are facing real health problems today, who have also had a lot of talk in the past. And I am also pleased that this proposal for a coalition contract has also put the health sector at the forefront, in particular the preservation of public health, the preservation of broad access to health services, the right to quality health, and, of course, an extremely important, long-term stable way of financing healthcare. I think that taking into account the social criteria of change, of course, is despite that starting point that can ultimately lead to the result of course that we all want, it is said, a successful Slovenia, on which we will be proud, for which we will work and which, of course, can be competitive in the future with all those with whom we want to compare and who present us in some way also a model. Of course, there is no doubt in this way that, of course, DeSUS will also be on behalf of him, but, above all, if I speak for myself, this important day is marked by the support of the candidate for Prime Minister, Mr Mir Cerar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u35	Thank you. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the word. But get ready, mag. Matthew Tonin. Here you go, Mr. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The orientations of the future mandate-holder resulting from the draft coalition agreement are of concern. Concern is due mainly to those who are currently pushed to the very bottom of society. For example, the visions of labour rights regulation bring about a reduction of these and does not provide for an increase in safety, solutions for disgruntled workers are inadequate. At the core of their coalition treaties, writers point out that the government will seek the best solutions for an individual, for individual social groups and for the country as a whole. In class society, it is not possible that one solution would be beneficial for everyone. We are clearly aware of this in the United Left, so we have also sided with those who cannot or are unable to do so as unemployed people. But we will never agree to the political and economic monopoly of elites. The well-known winged wing offered by Dr. Cerar is a secure flexibility. In fact, it is a sophisticated term for measures that actually gives employers greater authority over workers, allowing them easier forgiveness, shorter notices, minimum dismissal. Security in rich countries means that the loss of rights is compensated by unconditionally high compensation from the state budget. In a poor country like ours, this compensation has gone blind. The Coalition Agreement treats the labour force as goods and thus does not differ from the programmes of the past governments, which are responsible for the state in which we are. According to the agreement, it is explicitly stipulated that social transfers will remain unchanged until GDP growth reaches 2.5% of the rate. According to the Bank of Slovenia, growth in 2 years will only be at a rate of 1,7 %. It's not security of flexibility, it's just flexibility as such. Unfortunately, the social impact of such an approach is poverty, and the political economic impact is on a worker who must accept work under all conditions and for the lowest possible payment. The future government actually offers more flexibility and less security than it has so far. Such a policy towards workers is unacceptable. And today, perhaps more than ever, Vergill's version applies. So try to produce honey and bees and others. Thus, our concern is not unfounded, nor is it lacking in the very essence of the programme by which the future government, with the proposed mandate-holder, will operate. As a result of this concern, the United Left calls on the future mandate-holder to reconsider his policy and to fully support the interests of the people. In such a case, the United Left will receive an appropriate interlocutor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u37	Thank you, too. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, prepare yourself for Mr Igor Zorčič. Here you go, Mr. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u38	Dear colleagues and colleagues, a respected candidate for the term of office! The opening of an honest birthday card. I would say the following, at least I personally and also our parliamentary group, sincerely want you to succeed, because if you succeed, then Slovenia will succeed. We're not the kind of opposition that would stick to the rule of Them Worse for the government, the better for the opposition. In your introductory address, you said a sentence that touched me, saying, "We must choose a different path together." And I am sure that in this decision you must be our first example, but this looks like at least we in the New Slovenia Group did not feel, because for a different job we should first lean on those parties who want different Slovenia. As the coalition contract shows, you will rely on customers who are practically continuing their old practice and who do not want a different Slovenia, different changes. When we negotiated with you, we made clear the five reforms that we talked about so much. In the context of tax reform, there is only one measure that has been overrun by a lot of ink, which has been said a lot of words, and today I will not lose my word on it. I would like to say that we wanted to implement the concept and convince the entire coalition that with lower taxes it is possible to raise more budget money. Unfortunately, we have not been successful in this, although there are many arguments on our side that high taxation means more grey economy, more work in black and that every employee is twice as beneficial for the country as it pays its contributions. At the same time, the State does not have to pay a variety of social benefits. And here too is a perfectly healthy farmer's mind, which is that higher than taxes, more people will avoid paying those taxes. So in tax reform, we have failed to negotiate with the logic that there is less. We were the most broken up in health reform. Let me be clear, we are for public health and we are for a clear separation of private and private health. Then we can ask ourselves where things got mixed up. In the way of financing our health system. I do not think it is necessary to stress that every year our health system produces a more 10 million hole, that waiting species are prolonged and that the quality of this public health is poor every year. And today, this health system is financed by the big bag we all put in, but there is bad control over this bag, so it is a unique opportunity for reckless business and for high margins. What did we really want? We also wanted to implement a Dutch model in Slovenia, where public health is strong, there is also quality, but not only from one bag. We wanted to give citizens a choice to choose for themselves, from which jars their service would be financed. The effects, what would they be, such reforms? We recognize that the prices of health services would probably not be significantly reduced because we have public health care and a clearly prescribed basket of compulsory services. But this model of ours would certainly help improve services and cut down lobbyes, which is crucial. You went the other way. And that was also the main point of the break. Labour market reform, many have mentioned it today. Here too your river should apply Let us make up our minds and work differently. Unfortunately, I cannot say otherwise than that this government coalition is still insisting on pleasant flexible safety floscules. As long as we talk about flossules, it's easy. When we start putting down concrete measures, things start to get complicated. And we have found a very simple solution. It is that everyone who loses a job receives a salary for another three months, but at the same time, the employer does not have to wait for the notice. We wanted to help those who are unemployed today, but unfortunately Slovenian trade unions only protect those who have safe jobs for an indefinite period of time. And this proposal of ours wanted to ensure flexibility for employers and security for workers, because I can't imagine otherwise flexible security as if the employer had the opportunity to forgive you, and the worker has the opportunity at the same time to look for three months for his opportunity to get a new job. You probably also understand that employers don't forgive workers for falling in love with them, but because they probably don't have orders. We have come here at least so much together that in the words of certain things we have written down, but we are not talking about concrete measures. Retired reform. Look, in the government coalition, you're going to have unfortunately coalition partners who claim that everything is fine, that everything is great, that why you tease people, let's wait a little longer, and things will be settled. We can't agree with these things. With each day we are late to prepare for a new pension reform, pensions continue to fall. Also because, for example, DeSUS as a party that is supposed to support pensioners is not ready for serious reform, pensions have fallen by 16% since they have been in government. And Slovenia is ahead of such a relatively poor option and between the two choices, whether, my generation, our generation, we will work longer to ensure payments for the current pensioner or whether pensions that are already low will continue to fall. And between these two options, of course, we choose that my generation will have to work longer, because today the vast majority of pensioners are already below the poverty threshold. And that's why it's very dangerous to have those in the coalition who say that everything is okay, because they're going to help keep the pensioners poorer every day. It's about judicial reform. I agree with you that a just and legal state must be established. Of course, first of all, it is important to train those who will also share this right. Unfortunately, we failed, even though we had sincere intentions. I wish you well. Hold on and do something good for Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor to prepare the mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go, Mr. Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u40	Mr President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Dear Members and Members! Today we are gathered together because this is what the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia commands us to do. 111. Article 111 of the Constitution provides that the President of the Republic shall, after consulting the heads of the parliamentary groups, submit to the National Assembly the candidate for Prime Minister. As the candidate for Prime Minister, the President of the Republic submitted to the National Assembly Dr. Mir Cerar. Through his long professional, impartial, and honest work, Dr. Cerar gained the confidence of a wider society both in his profession and in society. But he didn't know about it. He himself realized that Slovenia needed some new ways, some new future, and he had first organised with fellow thinkers at the level of a civil society association, and then organised a party that he had led to the election in the early elections. Result of the election of 13. Seven. 2014 has shown Mir Cerar that he actually enjoys the high trust of voters who expect him to be in the future, as he has been set up so far. However, this result did not only show the will of voters and the trust that Dr. Miro Cerar enjoys, it also showed that Miro Cerar had a vision before the elections at the beginning of his civil engagement. He also showed that he had the courage of Dr. Miro Cerar to take this group of fellow thinkers and to take responsibility for leading the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Today we have heard one comment, I agree with him that leading the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is a brutal work. And if I go back to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, today we love the Prime Minister, today we do not discuss what the government will actually do, nor what it can or will do, I believe that this will be discussed when the names of ministers are known. Today we are discussing whether we have a person who is worthy of this confidence of citizens and who tells us that we must elect him as Prime Minister. I believe we have such a person or candidate ahead of us. In this regard, I would like you to support the Prime Minister also those Members who, I will say, are members of the parliamentary groups that you are already expressing, or I will say, which coalition negotiations provide the basis for you to be in the opposition. You say yourself you will act as a constructive opposition. I believe that today is also your first test. The vote for Dr Cerar is today the constructive and national action that Slovenia urgently needs. Even for those of you who say you don't intend to support Dr. Cerar, that doesn't mean you're going to fail your constituents. I think that the vote for Dr. Cerar also means the goodbye of that old unpopular government or, contrary, that those who do not support Dr. Cerar are somehow silently supporting that old government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u41	Thank you, too. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. But get ready, Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat. Here you go, Mr Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u42	Good-bye to all of you! Dear candidate, a new story of responsibility is about to begin today. Responsibilities that will be significantly greater in the case of Dr. Cerar than ever before in a comparable situation. The elections that follow us are paradoxical proof of how vital it would be for Slovenia in the development interest to introduce a two-way majority electoral system. When people decide about people, ask about them, have to know them, and evaluate programs and assess whether they are the right people, with the right program, and then trust them with their own voice. In these elections, however, the majority of the votes were directed to strangers by a party without a programme. And they actually elected you, Dr. Cerar, as a media icon, as a media image, which the media, with the help of the judiciary, had established for quite some time. And that's why the result is what it is. But this imposes on you an extremely great responsibility. Also because you still haven't presented any specific figures on the deadlines of the established programme. And now only from what has been reported to the public in the past days since the formation of the coalition treaty and coalition can we conclude what is really ahead of us, given that a particular image has been chosen, some shell, whose contents we still do not know today, and we are already deciding on it. We can conclude from the fact that a new real estate tax is forecast, from which it is expected to be substantial more, several times more revenue than has now been paid in compensation for the use of the building land. That reminds me, he was one of the biggest kicks of the previous government. And if people knew that this was being prepared, and they would see on one side an offer that said that this law would not exist, and on the other hand this new several times higher burden, they would probably have made a different decision. Now it is so much more responsible for those who have just impersonated a party who, in some way without a specific program, have entrusted their voice without knowing what they can expect. Therefore, the President of this party, on the mandate holder, is primarily responsible for the action. Just as it is a great responsibility for political culture. Why? We are now witnessing the formation of a coalition. And two parties, specifically the United Left and, above all, Mrs Bratušek with her list, should remain in opposition. That doesn't say anything good. Because it's ideologically in a single circle. The circle of those who once sat at an event in the Colossae. But why does it matter? Because it points to the great temptation that we will continue to be exactly the same policy that has been most characteristic of Mrs Alenka Bratušek's current government. It was a policy of constant excuses. And perhaps now the question is why Brotherhood is in opposition. Probably to make it so much easier to finger her than to blame her on duty for her poor condition. And, of course, the United Left will be left in the opposition to say how the party is central, neutral, but away from extremes and so on. But we can also bet now that when it comes to ideological things, to the constitutional majority, these will be the most reliable voices the coalition will receive. Probably more reliable than those voices within the coalition itself. And that is why this is important in terms of political culture, because transparency on the basis of a specific programme, specific numbers, the commitment to the electorate is confirmed by the vote, which gives credibility to a democratic political system. And to the end. When you predict, today we have actually heard this as a forecast, the introduction of certain independent institutions, you specifically mentioned as an independent institution, which will be a highly professional and completely politically independent, fiscal council, which is supposed to be responsible for implementing the fiscal rule. I just hope that this will be significantly different from what we're already witnessing. Because one of the coalition's parties to a group that is supposed to be, you know, independent, proposes a former president of a political party, specifically the former president of the Central Committee of the Union of Communists. This is going to be a great independence. I have to say. And if I mention that this group is taking the right and thus the coalition, anyone who will appoint such a group, or who has already taken the decision to establish it, that such a group is taking the right to actually decide beyond the constitution, not on a particular individual, but, be careful, on at least 6,000 116 votes that voters have given to someone whose circumstances they have been very familiar with, and at the same time also decides indirectly on almost 200 000 elections and electorates that those parties for which the President is concerned have dedicated their vote, of course I see that the avant-garde reflex is that if something that the voters have decided is not to like, we will already, because we have the majority, correct it. This, of course, with democracy and with modern law, to which you, Mr Cerar, have warned in your words, has nothing to do with it. Even in one of your views it was clear that such things could not and should not be decided in Parliament, I think it is quite old, but the new Slovenian Constitution was in force at the time. For this reason, I can say that I am very happy if at all these points it turns out that you will do otherwise and that with concrete actions, you will show that these are only the first birth spasms, that the content will be the one that should be here all the time, and this is only one question – development and prosperity for all.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u43	Thank you. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor to prepare Mr Branko Zorman. Here you go, Mrs. Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, distinguished candidate for Prime Minister Miro Cerar! Today, Mr Miro Cerar in the National Assembly presented a programme to be implemented by his government, of course if he is elected today, which I do not doubt. I will only touch some parts of this programme, even because I am limited in time. Among the priorities he presented, I consider the following very important: ensuring the implementation of the rule of law. That seems very important to me. It is about respect for legal standards, this is respect for laws, other regulations and respect for individual legal standards of state bodies. Secondly, ensuring greater and appropriate judicial response to negative anti-Court campaigns under way and attempts to discredit the judiciary. So that this government will ensure respect for the institutions of the rule of law, which I am very pleased with, and that it will guarantee the rule of law. It is also important to announce a candidate for a strong fight against corruption, we have heard, zero tolerance for corruption. This is very important, these are things that citizens have been very alert to, because it has been very painful for many to see corruption so pervasive and happening in our country. I am pleased that today we will elect a Prime Minister, who will then be able to form his government, so that this government will act as soon as possible in full possession and implement the coalition agreement drawn up by the Party of Mir Cerar, with the cooperation of the two coalition partners. As a member of the DeSUS party, I am very pleased that our party has successfully negotiated the provision of a pensioner's regression or the implementation of the DeSUS programme. I am also very pleased that the social state will be implemented, because there have been many or many citizens who have been affected in one way or another, and this is why it is very important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u45	Thank you, too. Mr Branko Zorman has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go, Mr. Zorman.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. Dear President, Honourable Dr. Miro Cerar, distinguished fellow Members and Members of Parliament! I believe that today, when we love Dr. Mir Cerar as President of the new Slovenian government, is a turning point in our political culture. And I believe that our citizens and citizens' minds and minds can be optimistic. The election of Dr Cerar to me means the establishment of a new solid foundation on which our Slovenia will stand and develop. Such a foundation of a country that will withstand severe pressure from our open economic, financial and social problems. If this foundation fails, we will clearly and clearly define the reasons for this and define responsibility. With Dr Cerar entering the open political scene, we first detected some new will and then stressed a new approach to political action. In many of us, this has aroused the hope that Slovenia will still be saved. Taking the lead in human thinking in finding solutions means a conscious change, a desire and a desire to realize our, any, mission in a new, effective way. This, however, means measuring the right amount of tolerance in relations and the full extent of honesty and accountability in working at all levels and in all politically active environments. In Mir Cerar's party, we share the interest of such action, which raises the hope that the process will start slowly, but that it will have a lasting impact on changing the social awareness of the importance of constructive cooperation and the value of working and living honestly. People's confidence in state institutions will be one of the consequences of this process. However, it will be important to achieve this confidence that it will indeed feel a new way of action, that no one will co-operate with the fig in his pocket, that it will be clear that we have accepted the fact that the fundamental direction of action is to act openly and responsibly. When this exciting highlight of future political action strikes the harsh sign of the Slovenian economic and financial situation, the full scope of the future Slovenian government is immediately revealed. It is essential that with planned and expected new political practice and with appropriate governmental expertise it can create the conditions for resolving the crisis. The most difficult thing is to implement simple solutions. Often because of the practice of overriding procedures in all areas of our stay so far, we are dealing with procedures rather than logical substantive solutions. I'm sure I can trust Dr. Mir Cerar as President. Its emphasis on deep humanity, careful assessment of options and firm stance in final decision-making simply mean demonstrating wisdom. Dear Dr. Miro Cerar, I want you to be able to achieve your goals by leading a new culture of governance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u47	Thank you, too. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj. Get ready, Mrs. Iva Dimic. Here you go, Mr. Shircel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Fellows and Fellows, Honourable Candidate for Prime Minister! I must say that I have listened with great interest to your speech, after all, to some of your emphasis on the rule of law, on the rule of law, on pieta, and so on. But I will talk, if you'll excuse me, about what I haven't heard today, and I'd like to hear it. The point is that, while the state will act, that it will be fair, that it will be equal to everyone and so on, there are some cruel truths about the financial and economic problems. Which is why, of course, I'm interested in your slightly more precise view of how to solve this. I am aware that you are a lawyer, that you are a respected lawyer, that you are not a financier, but I also believe that the mandate-holder must have a certain view and a specific strategy on the resolution of public finances and, of course, the answer to the fact that the Minister of Finance is already in charge is not enough. Consolidation of public finances. Whether you will also have to reduce the expenditure of budgets or of all public cash registers mainly because the current government has already "produced" by July 912 million expenditure, which is 90% of the total expenditure it can have in 2014. This means, of course, that if it hasn't already happened in August, we are already in the month of August, that the simple budget will no longer be paying money to users, but this would be the first time that the budget would not be paying already in August or September. This usually happened in October, November or perhaps December. After all, you are also mentioned in the coalition agreement on the implementation of the fiscal rule, after all, a respected candidate for prime minister, this law applies, this Parliament has already addressed it. Unfortunately, some of the parties in the then coalition did not accept it. You can change some numbers if they don't suit you, and you have a marriage here. However, in the coalition contract, at least one, you have written that the fiscal rule is respected under the rules of the European Union, which allows for 0.5% of the deficits. There is no deficit in the constitution, and that is, of course, why we need to pay attention to it. In short, how will you consolidate the public sector? Here I would remind you that please separate between tax evasion and the grey economy, so that there will not be too many sponge sellers receiving any inappropriate inspection procedures or anything else. This is a big difference, and in tax evasion there is much more money than in the grey economy itself. If we separate it, of course. The other thing I want to know is what's gonna happen to the bank hole. What are you gonna do? I will not go into what fell out of the coalition contract or not, but how this responsibility for the bank hole will be carried out and how the state will run and manage the banks, because in fact all banks, except those foreign banks, are owned by the State: NKBM, NLB, Abank and so on. You're gonna sell, you're not gonna sell, what's actually gonna happen? And what does privatisation mean in connection with this, or as you actually call strategically thoughtful privatisation. Look, these terms actually mean that Telekom's shares have fallen. That's bad for the state. What does this mean strategically for Slovenia and, of course, for the entire financial and insurance sector? And finally, I think you have a good $5 billion in your bank account or the Treasury account. This is sufficient for you to pay all international obligations by 30 June 2015 without the State coming to 0. That's what you say, you have to have a billion-to-two reserve. I don't want to talk about a bad scenario, but in December, money dealers from the United States will appear and so on, and you will probably have to owe the country to repay your previous debts. I'm interested in your strategic direction here, because the state will have to reissue the bond. Today, interest is below 3%. I am afraid that these interest rates will start to increase, not because of Slovenia, but because foreign investors will do so and, of course, I am interested in your strategy and how you will actually solve this problem. Because this problem actually affects the economy, because the economy also has to be indebted at a higher rate. I think that this is some of the main economic orientations, a well-respected candidate for prime minister, which I think we should, of course, give this dispute a little bit more valid today and say a little more about these matters. Thank you very much in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u49	Thank you, too. She has a word, Mrs. Iva Dimic. But get ready, Mrs. Janja Sluga. Here you go, Mrs. Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, chairman. A respected candidate for the term of office, for the composition of the new government! Your party, in particular you yourself have received an extremely large percentage of voters in the last parliamentary elections. This means that they have placed their trust in you in the first place and have expressed such a high level of trust for citizens and citizens. This is how citizens and citizens expect, or expect, that, as Prime Minister, they will represent the values that you have often stressed during your public activities and in the campaign. These are, in particular, ethics and honesty, not just in political life but in social life. However, putting these principles into practice will, at least in my opinion, be a difficult task. If I only stress the opinion of politicians and legal professionals, even though I have had them in this National Assembly on several occasions, that we do not have a problem with bad legislation, but rather with the failure to implement the legislation adopted. However, this non-implementation of legislation has so far remained unsanctioned and has, in some ways, paid off. This thought will, in my opinion, have to be changed to become a state of law. And your task in this area will be very difficult. At the same time, you will be faced with the challenges of urgent economic measures and the balance of public finances. In the economic programme, we have stressed the inevitability of reforms in a number of areas: tax, judicial, labour law and health reform in particular. Although they say that politics is possible art, I believe that without all these reforms, the objective of balancing public finances will not be achieved. The more we postpone with the necessary reforms, the more the reforms will be rooted and, of course, the more painful as a result. Therefore, Dr Miro Cerar, there is therefore a difficult and responsible work ahead of you, and on this path I can only wish you a great deal of perseverance and consistency.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u51	Thank you. Mrs. Janja Sluga has the floor. And get ready, Mrs. Eva Irgle. Here you go, Lady Servant.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Vice President, the House of Respect! Slovenia set out on its own 23 years ago. With great enthusiasm and high expectations we then supported a joint decision and I believe we all shared the story of Slovenia as a success story. Today, this story is slightly different. We have a high unemployment rate, we are witnessing bankruptcy of formerly successful companies, the millions recapitalisation of banks and distrust among the social partners. In fact, our society has failed the moral and ethical exams that have been fully evaluated in these 23 years. With regard to the success story at this time, we have completely forgotten some fundamental values. High morals, justice, legality and the functioning of the rule of law. Enlarging corruption, disrespect for laws, lack of transparency and lack of confidence in the country, its institutions and politics – this has led us to the point at which we are today. The point is that citizens and citizens are living worse and worse. Citizens and citizens no longer trust the state, neither the government nor the politicians. They're demanding changes. This will has been clearly expressed in this year's elections. They expect something new in politics and it is right to get what they expect. Because politics is not in itself bad, we are politicians in the service of the people who have chosen us. Politicians must also serve that people. I am therefore pleased that we are here today for a reason to elect the new President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Slovenia urgently needs it. I propose that we all work together constructively, for the benefit of citizens and citizens, for the benefit of our young countries. Slovenia needs a new start and the first day of a new start can be today. The candidate for President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Miro Cerar, is a man who made a political decision after serious consideration. He is a man of many values and a great expert. He also realizes the values he publicly advocates in all his actions. Its motto and motto is responsibility, justice, the fight against corruption, human dignity, social and economic security, tolerance and mutual respect. These are the values I want, and I hope that they will apply primarily here in the National Assembly. Let us therefore put together today the foundations of a new government, a government that will act as a connecting government, which will be open to comments that will take as many different views as possible and lead Slovenia on a new path. Today we can change things for the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u53	Thank you, too. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor to prepare Mr Uroš Prikl. Here you go, Mrs. Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! A reputable candidate for Prime Minister! First of all, allow me a little attention. When I followed both introductory remarks, first yours as a candidate for Prime Minister and then the address of the Prime Minister twice, it became even more clear to me why Janez Janša should be removed from the political scene. And it has also become clearer to me why you are working so hard to deprive him of the mandate of a Member. Even if we know that Mr Janez Janša has received the largest number of votes in the elections from all of us sitting here today. And if I make another brief comparison, say, all four members of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek received fewer votes than Janez Janša received in the early elections. Since I have only about three minutes to discuss, I will move immediately to two points, which I believe should be mentioned, because, I expected, in your performance, a well-respected candidate for Prime Minister, significantly more. At first, you said yourself that we are in very difficult and difficult times. With this we all agree - And these difficult and difficult times of course also require quick, clear, decisive and responsible decisions. Unfortunately, I must say that I was disappointed not only with the content, but with the fact that you did not present any figures in your opening act and did not say a single measurable goal. So you could say at the end: something was done, something was not done, and so on. You mentioned the resolution of the banking system. When you mentioned the rehabilitation of the banking system, I expected you to say the word "responsibility" in addition to the rehabilitation, but you didn't. I'm talking mainly about criminal liability. The responsibility of all those who have caused a more than 10 billion bank hole in this country, and so far, the respected candidate for Prime Minister, has not been answered by anyone. No one was answering. And as I can see, given your argument at the outset, at your presentation, nothing will happen in this regard, even though that is exactly what you have to say to citizens and citizens, because you will take from their pockets a bank hole. Therefore, I ask you publicly: Will you work quickly, effectively and all in this direction to find yourself responsible for more than a 10-billion-dollar bank hole? Given that I have been President of the Commission for Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities in the previous term, as I will be President of this Commission in this mandate, I must first thank the President of the National Assembly on my behalf, because he has honored today all the victims of totalitarian regimes, both fascism and Nazism. This seems a remarkable step towards finally making reconciliation between Slovenians in this Slovenian society, so congratulations to the President of the National Assembly. This clearly took a step further. Why am I warning you this? Especially because in the previous term we had extremely serious problems when we wanted to talk about the fifth to the dead, that the dead should be buried with dignity. Let me explain that on the Human Rights Commission, because we have a duty to speak on such issues, members of the coalition voted against the basic civilisation decisions. They voted against the death of a five-year-old burial and voted against the condemnation of crimes committed by the former State Security Service. I believe that the example set by the President of the National Assembly today is a beautiful journey, so that we can expect your parliamentary group to act in a manner appropriate to civilised society. And lastly, a respected candidate for Prime Minister, you are embarking on an extremely difficult, difficult path, no doubt. The President of our party has already explained that we will support all good solutions for this country. I hope that you will move from words to actions, this is necessary at this time, because times are serious and difficult. And I wish you well at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u55	Thank you, too. Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor. Get ready, Dr. Jasna Murgel. Here you go, Mr. Prickl.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u56	Honourable President, Honourable President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I am pleased to note that I can be in a very optimistic mood in front of the coalition contract, especially in the face of what the future Prime Minister has said. I am convinced that social justice, social justice and economic success can be balanced as a result of the coalition agreement. Mr Miro Cerar, the government under your tactics must remain or become a defender of the social state and guarantee social rights for all citizens and citizens. Citizens and citizens expect a lot from the future, our common government. The Long-Term Supply Act is assessed in DeSUS as one of the key rules. Measures in the field of labour market, youth employment, employment of workers, employment of older people and so on and so on. Family policy must also remain proud of the country of Slovenia; it must be a sample example of how this matter must be organised. Finally, social transfers and other measures in the field of work, family, disabled persons, the powerless, handicapped and so on must remain, remain or become a priority for the future government. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! It's a time of dissension, of contention and of contention, and it's a time of style. Please honestly, let us choose another, choose time, styles and return, and ensure all people, all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, dignity. It is only in this way that we will take the Republic of Slovenia on the path of success and indeed future prosperity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u57	Thank you, too. Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word. But get ready, mag. Claudius Marquez. Here you go, Mrs. Murgel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u58	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Member and Members, Sir Miro Cerar, candidate for Prime Minister. Today we are ahead of an important task, to decide whether to elect Dr. Mir Cerar as Prime Minister of the Government. I sincerely hope that this is where the rule will be enforced. I'm sure he likes to go to third. This is what all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia want and so do I. I support Dr. Mira Cerar as the candidate for Prime Minister because he represents everything, which is why I have decided to participate actively in politics: top-level expertise, honesty and real readiness, but not just readiness, but also the ability to do something for the good of the country. Most voters in this year's early elections recognized this in Dr. Mir Cerar. It identified a person with a clear vision and strategy of how to lead the country and gradually take it on the path of success and prosperity. Perhaps even more important than a person who builds on respect and cooperation, on the strength of the argument, but certainly not on demeaning and neglecting others. This quality was also demonstrated by Dr. Miro Cerar in the process of forming a coalition that led him to the right and respectful of all potential coalition partners. In doing so, he had a clear vision that he would realize what we expect the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to do, but with respect for the values he stands for. It therefore assesses that it is a suitable candidate for the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I now appreciate this even more than at the start of the electoral campaign, and I believe that it is a man who has not only embarked on a short-term project of political feats, but a person who, together with a number of thinkers, has developed all his knowledge and personal experience into a plan for the long-term reconstruction of our society, even though this means that he has personally exposed himself to the mercy and mercy of all the trials that follow. He didn't have to do it, but he did it because he thought it was necessary right now. For this reason, I believe that the goals that the future Prime Minister advocates and that we all stand for in Slovenia – prosperity for the Republic of Slovenia – can be achieved. However, I would like to highlight and place on the heart of everyone here in this Chamber and also all the people of Slovenia, so that we can also consider ourselves opening the way in confidence that we begin to trust that a change can be achieved for the better in our society, and in doing so we respect every move for the better and thus allow this movement to multiply. Therefore, we trust that we can succeed, for only those who truly believe and who appreciate the small achievements on the way to success can succeed. Anyone who searches for and sees only negative gets it inevitably. Because Dr. Miro Cerar, with his actions, shows that a different policy and behaviour can be achieved for the better, I also trust that this is possible and that I will also support him for this purpose as President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u59	Thank you, too. The word has magic. Claudius Marquez, prepare the mag. Margareta Guček Zakošek. Here you go, Mrs. Marquez.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u60	Mr Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members, the distinguished candidate for the term of office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia! I am here today to express my personal support and confidence, because I believe that Dr. Miro Cerar is not only an exceptional academic, a lawyer of international proportions, but especially a man with an extraordinary heart, a responsibility for a fellow human being. He stepped on the political floor of the Republic of Slovenia at the most unpleasant moment, in fact at the turning point, when we are witnessing great trials and instability. He has gathered around himself a team of like-minded people, people with high ethical principles, people who believe in the values of this society, and together with them he has prepared a great program of how to restore dignity and trust to people in the rule of law, which I think is very important at this point. He did all this without the great promises we've been accustomed to so far. He has sent a message to people that he will try, on the basis of clear ideology, to establish stability in the country and that this will be based on human dignity, social responsibility, the rule of law and a high level of culture and ethics, which I am particularly committed to. The responsibility placed by Dr. Cerar in his election to the early state elections is outstanding. We hear and talk about this every day, and we feel that way, but we all trust him as well as our customers, the Mir Cerar Party. We expect responsible, principled and honest guidance. The difficult economic and political situation must lead us to follow this path. We are prepared to take a number of measures to establish economic and social stability, bearing in mind that these changes cannot take place overnight. However, we would like to actively cooperate and have a positive impact on the development of our country and on the well-being of all of us. I believe that we are able to create an environment that will be safe, in which we can develop, even learn, and especially work and believe in a better future, along with our leader, Dr. Mir Cerar. Dr. Miro Cerar is my political posture and role model. He is a person who in me, with his charisma, arouses authority and respect. He does not do all this with words, but with his conduct, culture, principle, values that he carries on to individuals, even to us. I agree with his high standards of ethics and social responsibility, as our society still needs it. I am aware of the great responsibility that Dr Cerar will take when he confirms the office of President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but I do not doubt him or his leadership for a moment. Moreover, I am convinced that his story is our story, the story of all the inhabitants and inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia. The story that speaks of the turning point, the bold decisions, the great risks that we have taken and which will make us succeed. I'm voting in favour of Dr. Cerar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u61	Thank you, too. The word has magic. Margareta Guček Zakošek. Get Mr. Franz Breznik ready. Here you go, Mrs. Zakoshek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members, Dear Dr Cerar, candidate for President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia! When I speak for the first time before this well-respected assembly today, it is an honor, and what I am about to say is really something I have trusted as soon as I have embarked on this path. Before July 13th, I was, so to speak, an ordinary citizen of this country, as some colleagues say, a stranger, but I was taken, successful, active, committed to my work, expertise and with all my responsibility I carried out all the missions that were given me. And a lot of people, acquaintances asked me why. At the same time, their gesture was very supportive of me personally, and it gave me the strength and courage to move on. Sometimes the word "why" that so many times sets our little mind doesn't have all the answers. I was led by the desire, above all, that people who don't mean to us by politics and who can go on without it every moment should do something for this country. And I'm not embarrassed to say that Dr. Cerar encouraged me to do this, because I was able to identify myself with him in at least a way, and that's why I trusted him. As the majority of citizens and citizens today, I simply wanted something, that is, changes, thought-out, connecting, supported by positive thinking and other energy. I wanted different countries. I wanted different policies, different political leaders, to promote honest dialogue and to foster respect for people. Leaders who will have a vision, where we want to go as a nation and a country. And very important, in Dr. Cerar, I saw a man who came into this story honestly, honestly, with all his expertise, commitment, responsible, and above all, well-intentioned. These are for me three postulates that are the foundation of trust. And it happened on July 13th. Citizens and citizens have shown us clearly and maturely their will and what they want. We must not ignore that fact today. They too have shown great trust in us. And while we were happy with the result, we were also aware of the great responsibility it brought us. My life has changed a lot, too, and I have been given a new mission. And when I was turning around in my mind that famous question of why, the answer was only one, because people wanted to, because they trusted us and because they hope that we can do something different because we deserve a different country, a better and more mature country. The Roman philosopher and politician Cicero says in one of his speeches: "We will gain trust with two virtues, with glory that we have achieved prudence and combined with righteousness." For we trust those we consider reasonable and capable of acting at a dangerous and critical time and deciding the best circumstances appropriate. That is why I am even more confident today in my support for the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar. At the same time, it is not responsible to take responsibility for others, and everyone must take responsibility for it, as well as for all of them together, and know that together with it and its government, all citizens must take the same path. Therefore, today, honourable Members and Members, we must simply trust ourselves, regardless of the color, regardless of the position in Parliament and regardless of our personal question why. We need to show citizens and citizens this country-building and cooperation that we have talked about so much. Today this story cannot and cannot only remain a hope, so together we must take this path, which has been handed over to us as Members and Members of Parliament, and together we must support Dr. Mir Cerar as President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u63	Thank you, too. Mr Franz Breznik has the floor, and Mrs Vesna Vervega is preparing. Here you go, Mr. Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u64	Mr President, thank you for your floor. A reputable candidate for the Prime Minister of the Government! Two years ago, I worked with your respected father on the Olympic Committee, he as vice-president, me as president of the Sabljaska Association, that was in 2012, when the Slovenians celebrated the 100th anniversary of winning the first Olympic silver medal that Rudolf Cvetko won in sabering. See, in politics, there are many things that do not apply to the same principles as in the Olympics. "It is important to cooperate, not to win," unfortunately, politics does not apply. Politics is a responsibility, especially in Slovenia, to the welfare of 2 million people and also half a million of our people living outside the Republic of Slovenia. Politics is sometimes a matter of serious decisions, when it is sometimes necessary to hit a table, say no, not to fall for populism, not to sit on public opinion, and say, "Today we may take a step, two back, so that we can take the Slovenians a few steps forward." In 2009, at the time of the Pahor government, the then president of the government said that after a few months he could see the light at the end of the tunnel. This was sort of the point where public debt was slightly over 30% of the gross social product. What's scary right now is this curve that's growing exponentially. Today, public debt is close to 80%. And there's something else that no one's ever said here in the National Assembly. With regard to these 80 % of the public debt. When you are in debt or in debt as a private person, you also take into account the interest you will pay in your debt. This 80 % does not take into account the interest to be paid through bonds, the currency until 2025. This public debt is already over 90% if we have a balanced budget tomorrow or at the end of this year. As we know, that won't happen. That's why this tunnel and these lights aren't real, they're just reflections, they're some mirage of this tunnel. Actually, we're not in the right tunnel at all. This is because I am aware of this multi-year political action that we need serious, concrete reforms. We need a serious transformation of Slovenian society in all segments at the shortest possible time, otherwise we are going to collapse this country. And I don't think that's what we want, either of us here. And this conflict that arises in the National Assembly is not a conflict, but it is a serious action when we are looking for some serious solutions. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we referred them to them for several years. I can say that we also indicated this exponential rise in Slovenian indebtedness, and that is what is frightening. Dear candidate, look, in fact, solutions are simple, but to implement solutions, this path is very difficult. Slovenia is in serious trouble because of the thought itself, because of the mental processes that are narrow and unopened. We are a relatively closed society and to overcome these mental processes is the greatest step we could take. I can say that at this point you have a relatively good start, in fact you have three parties in the government, where you can really implement your programme. Unfortunately, I didn't feel it clearly, some say you have to read it between the lines, and I'm sure you have a great responsibility. In one easy way. Be aware that Slovenians have not in the last 69 years had some serious liberal right-wing government that could implement these reforms. If I go back to the principle of olympics. We need to look for the best between us, the best people, the best individuals. We can't have a social sense here. People who are incapable cannot come to the highest cities and be held accountable in different areas for the fate of their fellow citizens. I therefore believe that you will call on your government the best, competent experts who understand how the market economy works and who understand the situation in European and global markets. Look, the world is operating in line with other economic foundations, but not with some foundations that we are supposed to understand in our narrow thought patterns, which are due to some past regimes. That's why I believe you're a candidate. Be aware that the Slovenian Democratic Party will be a responsible party, as a party to the Slovenian Spring, who has actively participated in the start of this country, that we have the solutions, as Mr Janez Janša said earlier, that they are in the drawers, that we will cooperate, not in a way that we will negotiate, but in such a way that we have the solutions and we can offer them to you. We can work with these solutions, and I believe that, at least in some of the solutions, if they approach these solutions, together we will form some measures, some reforms that will go towards Slovenia, thus raising Slovenian competitiveness in all directions. In this work, of course, I wish you great happiness in my name and, above all, courage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u65	Thank you, too. Mrs Vesna Vervega has the floor, and Mrs Anja Bah Žibert is preparing. Here you go, Mrs. Vervega.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! From this city, I express my support for the election of Dr. Mir Cerar as mandate-holder, because I am confident that he will succeed with competent and responsible individuals in forming such a government that will stabilise the economic situation in Slovenia and turn them in a positive direction. Voters and voters have shown that in the vast majority they recognize the fundamental political origins and programme measures of our parties as those with which trust in the rule of law can be restored, as those with which social and economic security can be ensured, and not least as those with whom they can be afforded conditions of decent living through their own work. In his public performances so far, Dr Cerar has actually advocated a high culture of dialogue and a rise in political culture, which is now clear after entering politics. I support it because it pursues a policy of planning and applying good for all citizens and citizens of Slovenia, not for the pursuit of narrow private interests. I believe that with its positive energy, with great tolerance and strong will, it will be possible to combine the interests of the various political options into a common goal – the well-being of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u67	Thank you, too. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has the floor, and Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik is preparing. Here you go, Mrs. Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, President-in-Office, Honourable candidate for the term of office! Today it has been heard several times in this assembly that we are in a difficult economic and economic crisis. Last time we listened to a study. I hope it wasn't made for taxpayer money, because it's not necessary at all. Let's just turn around in Slovenia, go from one end of Slovenia to the other, and we'll understand everything. In Slovenia there are people who are literally fueling gasoline for €5. And you know why not for ten? Because they don't have ten anymore. There are also people living in Slovenia who, although they are still taxpayers, fight for plumbing and sewerage, not least for the safe way of children to and from school and so on. In short, we do not need to set aside time to find out what kind of crisis we are in. And above all, it is up to you, a respected candidate for a term of office, to take what steps we will take in the future. Whether these steps are quick, slow, forward, or even backward. Today will certainly be a big step for you. What it will be like for Slovenia, of course, we will soon see. I haven't had much chance to meet you, but I've met one of your qualities that you're a great joker. Let me put out a few of your jokes. At the time of the Janša government, you said that we were in crisis in adopting laws following urgent procedures for the resolution of Slovenia, but that it was not so bad. Today, because of the jokers of your metal, the public debt has already exceeded 80% of GDP. You have also proved to be a jester in proclaiming the results when you have won convincingly and said that you will bring more tolerance into politics and that you will not act in a destructive way. The following day, you did not include or invite the other biggest customers. By election, you sent the citizens on leave. This certainly did not apply to 117 thousand unemployed. It must have been a painful joke for them. In view of your high criteria in politics or politicians, I assume that Mr Kopač, Mrs Kolarjeva and others are also one of your jokes. The coalition treaty would be wrong, and it would be my joke if we talked about it today, because we only know one of the drafts, the question is, when are we going to get that last one? It is true, it is right to end jokes today, because in Slovenia the Devil has taken a joke and citizens might not consider you too serious. But there's something I'm very sorry about on this occasion. That you did not wear these boots you are wearing today when they were offered to you in 2013. That would shorten our agony. Slovenia would save an adventure with Bratuškov, I believe that the situation in the economic and economic field would be the same, including the composition of the coalition there. Only something else would be different. Today, we'd be deciding on someone else to be a terminator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u69	Thank you, too. Mrs Irena Grošelj Košnik has the floor and Mr Benedict Kopmajer is preparing. Here you go, Mrs. Kosnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u70	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members, the esteemed candidate for Prime Minister of the Government! Slovenia needs a government with full powers as soon as possible. And her good connector and leader. I'm sure Dr. Cerar has such qualities. He is a committed, honest, trustworthy, extremely loyal and responsible man. He has a lot of knowledge and experience to apply new approaches to running a country that really needs to become better for all citizens. He's also a reputable professor. "Teachers are messengers from the past and escorts to the future," Albert Einstein said. At that, Dr. Cerar, I wish you well, and I will vote and support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u71	Thank you, too. Mr Benedict Kopmajer has the floor and the mag is being prepared. Ange Logar. Here you go, Mr. Kopmeyer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u72	Dear Vice-President, the esteemed candidate for Prime Minister of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, welcome! I am pleased that today we will elect the Prime Minister of the Government and then the Government, who will take over all the powers and work as quickly as possible. He's in a hurry. We all know. I come from Koroška, where we are eager to take steps to start the economy, to start the construction of the third development axis, to reshape and rehabilitate state roads and other incentives that will put Koroška on the sidelines of the rest of Slovenia. Sometimes it saddens me to be in an environment where incentives and examples of good practice spank from Austrian neighbors across our former border. And in the end, I'm like, "What are we different about?" Nothing. Maybe ever better. We just have to have the right conditions. I believe that the Prime Minister of the Government, with his team, will enable us to do so, so today, too, my vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u73	Thank you, too. The word has magic. Ange Logar, prepare Mrs. Ksenija Krenjak Kramar. Here you go, Mr. Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u74	Thank you, Chairman. A respected candidate for the term of office. According to your outgoing Prime Minister, Slovenia is in an almost idyllic situation – the economy is growing, unemployment is falling and so on. The truth, of course, is different, and you find out for yourself. You said that Slovenia is in an economic, social, political and value crisis. More. Today, you used the expression that she is seriously ill. In just seven months of this year, the outgoing government has produced almost a billion euros in deficits, and it owes us all 5,000 euros per head for its mandate. And in such a situation, Mr Cerar, you are coming to the National Assembly with a coalition contract, which provides for up to 5 new ministries and also the establishment of a project office, which is essentially some bureaucrat superministurate. At a time when citizens still have to tie up their belts and squeeze, you come up with a very luxurious proposal for a new government team, but ministers will be as many as they need to be. Dear Mr Cerar, the people have given you a mandate to lead the country. By choosing coalition partners, you also take responsibility for these coalition partners. So it's in a proportional electoral system. You've linked yourself to a self-proclaimed social-democracy bloc, because, you say, you're kind of the closest to each other. In view of their programming backgrounds, which we have been following during the negotiations, we can only say that you have connected with a socialist bloc that advocates maintaining the status quo and works according to principle If it cannot go well for all of us, then let everyone go equally badly. A thorough review of all three versions of the coalition agreement shows that you have given in to these socialists, while your commitments have continued to be inconclusive, abstract, and these discounts have become increasingly concrete in abandoning important activities and establishing new offices and additional millions. In fact, we have come to the conclusion that the political force that holds 40 per cent of Parliament in the National Assembly has given in to 18 per cent of Parliament, unless of course you are not alone, Mr Cerar, a socialist. Borut Pahor is 18. 8. when he signed the order on your appointment, he said: "This difficult duty will be performed with faith and success." However, he said these words to the public at a time when a third draft coalition contract had not yet been made public, where, as we know, we find nothing on the prosecution of crime due to TES 6 or the prosecution of corruption and the investigation of a bank hole. You say it's a technical error. But, Mr Cerar, there is no room at this level for technical errors. It's either a coalition or it's not. This is a political decision of the coalition government. In fact, after this model, you will also be at the end of the term when the promises of the coalition contract are not fulfilled, saying: "But those promises were in the coalition contract after a technical error." You also said: "Our common goal must be to rise together in our values and do everything we can to establish Slovenia a society where we work together and is a human being." Let's set up a society where we work together. I'll take those words as your commitment. After this commitment, I will also assess whether you hold your word as Prime Minister. Let's start a society where man is human. If I understand this sentence correctly, then 6 000 116 voters of the Republic of Slovenia do not object to a political decision just because they want or demand political cheers. I also advise that you do not stand for undisputed moral authority or ethical authority toward others, while in your own ranks you tolerate personnel infected with tycoon business or land machinations along friendly lines. Just the previous term teaches us that the Pharisees are like a shorter breath. You courageously continue to establish a society in which man is human, and do not forget that the public will ultimately judge you by the measures you take, not by the promises you made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u75	Thank you, too. Ms Ksenija Korenjak Kramar has the floor, and Mrs Violeta Tomić should be prepared. Mrs. Kramar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable President, Honourable candidate for the term of office of Dr. Miro Cerar, honourable Members and honourable Members! Unfortunately, in recent years Slovenia has become to a large extent a society in which we are witnessing a breakdown of fundamental values in which at all levels the foundations of social integration are falling apart. It has become a society in which mistrust and manipulation are growing and in which man and his values, needs and dignity are no longer the value and purpose of our operation, so there is increasing apathy and disappointment of people. To overcome this, the main mission of the Government must be to restore confidence in the rule of law, its institutions and respect for man and his dignity. Its operation must be based on stable long-term cooperation, on values of respect and response to needs and initiatives of different stakeholders. A sustainable development focus is needed and the creation of an economic environment that will be stable and predictable, which will contribute to greater competitiveness and create new jobs. I believe that Dr Miro Cerar has a right to hold and that he has all the qualities that are necessary to enable the government to lead successfully, courageously, uprightly and in particular firmly towards the achievement of those objectives and with a programme of specific objectives. I am confident that it will form such a government that will stabilise finances, stimulate economic growth and establish order in the country and thus restore people's confidence in the rule of law, in politics, raise quality of life and restore hope for a better future for all of us. That is why my support for Dr. Mir Cerar will be for the mandate of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u77	Thank you, too. Mrs Violeta Tomić has the floor, but she should prepare herself for the mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u78	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Dear Mr. Miro Cerar, happy birthday to you! Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, Comrades and Comrades! The government's programme, as can be seen from the public of the well-known draft coalition contract, is inconsistent, inconsistent and in some places unacceptable to the United Left's programming objectives. The government coalition is allegedly rejecting, I state, 'the environment in which politics is contemptible and ignorant of the real problems of people' and 'the important aspect of such development is also the development of human rights and equal opportunities'. However, in the government’s programme, we do not seek to correct the Family Code, nor do we seek equality in marriage, family life and biomedical assistance for the same-sex people. We are also aware of the absence of an undertaking to keep the public informed about the trade and other negotiations of Slovenia as part of the European Union with the United States of America, Canada and the OECD countries, which, by their content, interfere with the sovereignty of Slovenia and its citizens and subject it to their own capital interests. I am referring to negotiations known as TISA, TTIP and CETA. Here we appeal to Mr Cerar, who is known and supported by the public as a sensitive and sensitive person when it comes to the environment, animals and plants, to provide the public with information on who, and with what powers, in our name in Geneva behind closed doors, negotiates the TISA Agreement. We are interested in why the negotiations are held in secret and why the content of the documents should remain secret for five years after the signing of this Agreement. We expect you to have a consistent, correct and comprehensive knowledge of the public and the legislator and to cooperate in a timely manner both at the stage of setting up negotiating venues and at all subsequent stages until the final agreement. We are also concerned about the laudable commitment to the rule of law and the fight against economic crime and corruption on the one hand, and on the implementation side we miss actions to investigate the corruption bed called TES 6, which has been spreading through recent disclosures to Premogovnik Velenje and Thermoelectric Trbovlje and continue to the unauthorized millions of expenses for the second block of the Krasko Nuclear Power Plant. Here we call on the future mandate-holder to be principled and inflexible, irrespective of the potential pressures of coalition partners, some of whom are deeply involved in at least one of the corruption wetlands listed. We are also opposed to reconciliation, which says, "This government and coalition will therefore not open up to those who lead and promote ideological warfare and create new divisions." Ideological warfare is always waged on the back of minorities, erased foreigners, same-sex women. It is always triggered by those who oppose their equality. The government has no right to give in to these aspirations with the excuse that it does not want to promote an ideological fight. The mandate will run counter to the Constitution if it allows the influence of the RDC in the military, police and public sector at all. We appeal to a consistent separation of the state from the church. We call on the mandate officer to prevent the impact of retroactive doctrines on schools. From the preamble, among other things, I quote, "The government and the coalition are committed to European ideas and the values of Slovenian independence." What European idea? - I'm asking you. The neoliberal European Union, which has caused a social catastrophe in Greece, Portugal and Spain for the rescue of Western banks? An imperialist European Union supporting the war of Ukrainian oligarchs against its own people? The European Union, which is quietly observing the genocide against the Palestinians? What values of independence are we committed to? To those who have led to the deletion, what consequences have not yet been addressed today? To those who have not saved their lives in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia for more than 20 years, who could literally save their lives and who will now be paid off by our citizens with interest? Or perhaps the ones with whom our citizens were disbanded by ownership and denationalisation? Dear Mr Cerar, fellow Member and fellow Members, we wish the government a successful job, but the United Left will always be a reminder when the government turns away from the set goals that are primarily the concern for the citizens we represent here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u79	Thank you, too. The word has magic. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, and Mr. Joseph Horvat. Here you go, Mrs. Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u80	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Dr. Miro Cerar, honourable Members and other Members! A lot of words have been said today. I have to say, in a way, I'm also positively surprised. I believe that, given the culture of dialogue, which has nevertheless been expressed in some speeches, I can say that this is a step in the right direction and I hope that this will remain so. I'm optimistic myself, and that's the way it is. People expect us to work constructively together and to give up acting contrary to the interests of people, this is contrary to public, common interest. I am also optimistic because I can say that the Coalition Treaty covers the essential measures and guidelines necessary to restore people's trust in the rule of law, to preserve and develop the social state, to develop a socially responsible economy, to promote accessible and quality public services, to promote both agriculture, economy, tourism, to develop appropriate infrastructure, to protect the environment and, of course, to take the other measures and guidelines necessary to get us a truly good country. I am also optimistic because from some of today's speeches, including the opposition, such as the predecessors, and even more from the speech by Dr. Simone Kustec Lipicer, the coalition has shown itself to be aware of the situation in the country. In fact, the situation in the country was shown in the figures and a real diagnosis was made. A diagnosis that should have been established long ago, however, has been overlooked in some way by past governments, ignored and, of course, not achieved. The problem is the rule of law, if we move around like that. The problem is the lobbying that gives, when they come in contact with a policy that does not represent public interest, then an advantage to the private, but not to the common interest and the consequence is corruption. Then what are the consequences of corruption, how it undermines the social state, how it destroys our economy, in short, what leads to progress and the development of society? This is then due to the fact that we do not know whether we knew or did not want to diagnose this diagnosis and to put in place the right measures. I am also optimistic because, even at the time of the coalition negotiations, where this current coalition has been able to identify harmful proposals that have already emerged in some way in the coalition treaty. That is, when it comes to the social cap, when it comes to lowering taxes for the richest, not to mention the harmful proposals that have emerged in the field of health. Proposals that have long been rejected in both domestic and foreign practice and theory. So we are aware that these things were not appropriate. Since I'm running out of time, of course, I'm just going to say that these are all the reasons, and there are many more to support Dr. Mir Cerar as Prime Minister of the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u81	Thank you, too. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor and Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker is preparing. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Honourable candidate for President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, dear colleagues and colleagues! Today's meeting of the National Assembly, at least that's how I feel about it, has a coming of a solemn session. We have successfully elected two vice-presidents of this assembly, and we will certainly also successfully elect the new President of the 12th Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and later everything will certainly go as planned on the following items of the agenda, and that is correct. And also in the debates, which are optimistic, which are culturally positive, we direct and give real recognition and we want future Prime Minister of the Government all the best. That's also my sincere wish. Not only for today, your personal holiday, but also and especially for leading the next Slovenian government. Of course, we also judge Dr. Mira Cerar by his personality characteristics, and here my voice is for Dr. Mira Cerar. At my table, you will find these days or the last weeks of his book Memory in Crisis: Thinking about the mental, emotional and spiritual challenges of modern man. Among other things, the introduction says, "Seeing is important, intelligence is more important, the heart is the most important." I like that very much, and it may be from this place, from this seat, the last seat in this congregation, number 90, that he repeats several times. But today we do not decide on the personality characteristics of Dr. Mir Cerar, but also on what President Brglez invited him to present to us after 226th Article of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Programme Design of the next new government. Yeah, I was in the negotiating group myself, which I'm grateful for. I've gained some new experience. We, namely, New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, were no longer afraid of changes before the elections, and we made it clear before the elections that we want five reforms and also numbers, we also mention simulations and the expected effects. So we don't accept the obvious that we're worried about change. No, we weren't worried. We are on your side, Dr. Cerar, when you call all of us to a higher, higher political culture. We're Christian Democrats here, and we'll be there. But this program that you presented, at least in my understanding, I may be correcting my assessment when we listen to your ministers at the hearings, but this document that you presented today does not have so many characteristics of the contract – those who worked in the economy, we know what the contract is, is a very serious document, especially when it is signed by at least two parties – more or less a declaration that would be very correct if Slovenia were in a coordinated starting point, in time if it had no history and if it were not such a poor situation. That's why the numbers you mentioned, 40 million euros for the pensioners' regress, Pirova wins. I will draw this back and deny this statement if I find the text in the final text to provide at least EUR 40 million, to ensure the employment of young people, to implement our European commitments, this is an alliance for young people and an alliance for apprenticeship, because efforts for a quality autumn of life begin with young people. We create an environment, an economic environment for employment, for young people to develop their intellectual and all other potentials. When we have a new 60,000 employees in Slovenia, we will not deal with public financial problems. I am pleased that you have written and said today about the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia that you want to restore the credibility of Slovenia and its visibility. Yeah, that's a big job. In this context, I would like all of us together to make a new declaration and a strategy of Slovenian foreign policy, because the document we have is in baskets. He's got a December 1999 date. I allow you, and I really want you to stop the policy of borrowing a million euros an hour. We've seen this and we've seen it before the break-in. And with this we have lost much Slovenian sovereignty. I believe that you will not make the mistakes made by the Government when it took note of the information decision and gave up part of Slovenian sovereignty and sent three names for candidates for the Slovenian Commissioner. This is a loss of Slovenian sovereignty because we can't decide at home and we said, "Europe, you decide, we don't know!" I trust you won't repeat these mistakes, because we have people's memories and memories so we don't make mistakes. Good luck, Dr. Miro Cerar!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker has the floor, and Mrs Jelka Godec is preparing. Here you go, Mr. Shaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u84	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear Members, honourable Members, the distinguished candidate for the term of office of Dr. Miro Cerar! It is a great honour for me to start my political journey in the National Assembly with an address in support of the President of the Party Mir Cerar as President of the 12th Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In the general and professional public, Dr. Miro Cerar has always been valid and, of course, still applies to a person with a high degree of integrity and respect. I believe that, with the transition from a professional to a political level, our President has made clear his doubts about the current functioning of the policy and, above all, the rule of law. However, with the creation of our client, Dr. Miro Cerar took the initiative to take responsibility for positive changes, changes for the better. We need to be aware that this is just a long run. At the Mir Cerar Party, we know that this route will not be easy, but we have committed ourselves to going through it together. Both coalition and opposition and, of course, to you, respectable citizens and citizens. We want to form a good society, we want it very much ourselves, and I will do everything in my power to get to it. I know, and I believe the same is what the candidate for Prime Minister wants. It is necessary to act, move the country from a dead point and act proactively and coherently. We need to talk and look for common solutions. More attention must be given to young people leaving our country because they do not see a perspective. Youths should be given easier access to housing and a place to create a family should be opened. It is necessary to provide a favourable business environment for the development of businesses that create jobs. The economy and the education system need to be linked. It is necessary to change this established practice and to strive for progress in the future. I am convinced that the honourable candidate for the mandate of the mandate-holder is specialising in all the qualities and virtues necessary for the composition and management of a stable Government of the Republic of Slovenia, for the adoption of urgent reforms and for the establishment of a rule of law that will serve citizens and citizens. As I said in the introduction, I will support the president of the SMC, Dr. Mir Cerar, as President of the Government. I believe that a man who is truly committed to the goals that we have set ourselves in the Mir Cerar Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u85	Thank you. Mrs Jelka Godec has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Branislav Rajić. Here you go, Mrs. Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u86	Dear President, Honourable Fellows and Fellows, Honourable candidate for the term of office! We have waited a long time for this proposal for a mandate-holder, given that some, especially the media, have put you on this pedestal before the elections to be a mandate-holder. There was a lot of celebration on July 13th, a lot of celebrations and toasts will probably be today too, but I think we will all be able to toast together when Slovenia comes out of this situation, which you described very nicely today. But I think it's a long way off by then. Blue changes were promised. You are also asking us today to support the changes, that we are somehow in favour of change against an old government, but I simply do not see these changes, because there are parties in the coalition who have already sat in the previous government and it is indicated that the same people will sit on the ministerial chairs. There is also talk of some cooperation, to cooperate, on the participation of all parties, but at the very beginning, a party was excluded from the negotiations, a party that was the only one who ensured serious changes and reforms. Under the coalition agreement, it is clear that you will have a very easy job on the budget line that says "expenditure". Several new ministries, additional funding of universities, then additional subsidies here and there, also increasing the number of labour inspectors, new offices, new jobs. What about on the income side? What are we gonna do there? It's kind of a hazy thing out there. You wrote: "We will provide public servants with an appropriate environment and clear objectives." What about the economy? What conditions, more appropriate, we will assure them, because some already have clear objectives, it is to escape to Austria and open up their businesses there. We are expanding the public sector, despite the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the former government, has adopted a decision on the restriction of employment and that employment in the public sector needs to be reduced by 1% by the end of the year. The Coalition Treaty does not give us any fine example or example, for we will expand the ministries. At the same time, we will set up new services to draw on European funds. Look, there's a lot of these services by the ministries. A little more efficient would be needed, and the funds would be pumped very nicely. We have services in some ministries that in two years are unable to respond to an invitation to tender or to apply for an invitation to tender or to review 24 cross-border programmes in a year and a half and pay off European funds. In your introductory presentation, you used the words "necessary" "We will be effective", "we will stand by", see, I do not think that these beautiful words of Slovenia will put them out of crisis. Specific numbers, targets, results and indicators are needed. So, we kind of got on the blue train, if you remember, this one used to drive on the Ljubljana-Belgrade route. I hope that's not the way it's gonna be on this new blue train. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u87	Thank you, too. The word has magic. Branislav Rajić, prepare for Dr. Dragan Matić. Here you go, Mr. Rajic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u88	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Fellow Members and distinguished fellow Members of the National Assembly, Honourable Dr. Miro Cerar! All of you are well aware of the discomfort before the first ad in the National Assembly, and this certainly unites us into a kind of brotherhood of dry throats. One of you has experienced a fiery baptism in the previous term, and the vast majority of us are facing it right now. Our task today is to discuss and confirm the candidate for First Minister, Dr. Mir Cerar. Party ownership and coalition polarisation already indicate a positive outcome. Finally, the results of the early parliamentary elections to the National Assembly are sufficiently eloquent. Many opinions have been and will be delivered to Dr. Cerar and, of course, I personally associate with them unconditionally. However, it seems to me that we should also talk about our future cooperation and work, which can improve the past parliamentary practice. The situation in the country and society is critical, and such a reference to the National Assembly is the structure and image of the will of citizens, that it is a time for a new direction, for different perceptions from those of the past and for the re-establishment of values that have been dangerously consumed by modern times. I believe that all Members are equally defined to the urgency of change. Of course, we have different views on the road leading to them. It is up to us to give a clear signal to citizens by improving mutual understanding and respect for differences in the inevitable measurement of muscles, of course, that we are prepared for constructive receptions and that we will not be gladiators of the reality show on television. Today's vote could be one of the most eloquent changes. It is clear that the coalition will support Dr. Cerar's approval as Prime Minister. The outcome of the elections shows that the vast majority of Slovenians see in Dr Cerar and in the politics of the Mir Cerar Party the only promising way out of despair, from the economic crisis and from the crisis of living values. That is why each vote will express more than the number of members of the coalition the higher level of readiness of this ship of ours to sail with a new wind, with new sails and less useless ballast. There is no more time for the burdens of our patriotism to be confined to the past. We can only influence the future and it needs to be seen. In our call to the National Assembly, this influence can begin today. All 90 of us have been shown trust, which has given us a unique and noble opportunity to justify the high expectations of our voters. The expression of responsibility for them begins with the singlest possible confirmation of Dr Cerar for the mandate holder, whether we press the voting button with the left or with the right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u89	Thank you, too. Dr. Dragan Matić has the word and Mr. Jernej Vrtovec is prepared. Here you go, Mr. Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u90	Dear President, Dear Fellows and Fellows, Dear Dr. Miro Cerar! Of course, I will support the candidate for President of the Government, because I believe that the reasons for my support are the same as those for the civil social movement and later for the Mir Cerar Party. The starting point is, of course, a reflection on the crisis in which our country was found. We all feel painfully that state or social systems and subsystems such as economy, finance, public services and social services are far from working in such a way as to ensure a sufficiently high standard of quality of life for citizens. The roots of these problems range from a lot of doves to a lot longer than the financial economic crisis of the last five years. It is a breakdown of values, especially among some of the former leaders in our society, or a sad fact of how completely wrong it has been to understand what the mission of politics, the chief official, the leading manager or even the church dignitary is. That some have truly lost their values is now quite evident and all of us are in front of each other. For example, today some of the leaders are either imprisoned or imprisoned. Many formerly top managers of formerly large companies, who were proud of Slovenia, are behind bars, some are about to end up there or on the run ahead of justice. The companies they run have collapsed, the assets have gone up, and the workers have ended up on the road. It is obvious that a large number of individuals in positions of leadership have brutally forgotten what a public official means. The word "employee" comes from the word "serving." A public servant should serve the public interest, to the common good, and should put personal interests behind him. Unfortunately, the reality was completely different. The practice of a large number of people at various levels of politics, economy and public life was egoism, grabbing, corruption, trying to hold citizens together by burning passions based on surviving ideological battles, intolerance and arrogance, unwillingness to participate in key projects important for the future of our society, insecurities, such as falsification of official documents and so on, not to mention further. In the SMC, we believe that other emerging forms of social depression, which are reflected in the decline in the quality of material and spiritual life of all of us, stem from the crisis of values. From here, our intention is also to change the political landscape, not only by creating a new party, but by changing the political mentality and returning to the original noble mission of politics, which, if I do, is to genuinely work for the public goods of all present and future generations and to cooperate patiently and constructively with all good-thinking people. This is also the basic idea pursued by the candidate for Prime Minister Dr Cerar, and we, too, who stand by him, are following this idea. The path towards achieving this goal will not be easy, so on this occasion I ask the general public to support it, and in particular the media. Follow our work and be critical of us, remind us of mistakes, for they will come because it is usually that someone works, even sin. But also support us, each of you, because in achieving our goals, they will try to stop the centres of power and concrete interests that do not want to change. Let me conclude with the thought that I am quite sure that Dr Miro Cerar has sufficient wisdom, knowledge and energy to form a quality government and that this opportunity deserves. We deserve it from all citizens of Slovenia. The results of the operation of the new government, I believe, at the end of the mandate that the government is about to perform, will certainly be such that we will be more proud than today to say that we are citizens of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr Jernej Vrtovec, New Slovenia has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Marko Pogačnik, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u92	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished candidate for the term of office of Mr Miro Cerar, welcome! Personally, I wish our country the very best. For this reason, honourable Mr Cerar, I also wish you, as the most likely mandate-holder of good, to effectively lead the country in order to be able to deal with all the traps that will follow you. But I'm afraid. On the basis of the proposal, the draft coalition agreement and your opening presentation, I fear that, despite your 36 mandates and your absolute winner in the elections on 13 July, you have already missed a unique opportunity at the beginning of the coalition negotiations, when you have given in only 22 seats. With this you have somehow stepped into this status quo, the stagnation, which in every competitive world, even here Slovenia is competing, is a setback. In the coalition you will have two parties who have been in a wide variety of governments in recent times, and this is not a marriage of progress. You gave up a unique programme supported by many economists, this is the programme of New Slovenia and somehow said that Slovenia does not need changes. As a member of the National Assembly, I regret this, but I want you to know that within the coalition you will face all the difficulties and problems that will follow. I want your status or the status of this coalition, that is, the direction, solely on economic grounds, and I expected this today in your opening presentation. To operate with the actual state to present the real problems that plague the country. And you know, on the basis of the draft coalition agreement, how quickly each word becomes a reality, and in the case of Telekom, we have already lost some ten million euros because of the inadequacy about the sale. And that's what I'd say because I'm running out of time. Listen to the voice of the economy, the voice of entrepreneurship. This is why we have proposed tax reform for you in New Slovenia, but you have not accepted it. For a short time, you're looking at how we're going to block these holes that surround us, but in the long run, reducing corporate tax burdens is what marriage is for the stability of the economy. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Time's up. [[…]] Just this. Department of Health Insurance. Don't strengthen the monopoly here, because already millions are leaving, millions are disappearing, and the extra insurance is not blue. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u93	The word has magic. Marko Pogačnik, SDS. Get Dr. Bojan Dobovšek ready, SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u94	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, distinguished candidate for the term of office of Dr. Miro Cerar! According to July 13th, the electorate and the electorate gave you considerable confidence. There is no doubt, however, that there are doubts about these legitimacys in these elections, and I would not explain the details. Dear Dr. Miro Cerar and the coalition that consists. You've been given a lot of responsibility. People's expectations are considerable. I will not personally support your candidacy today. The main reason is that there is no actual content in your coalition contract. I would, of course, expect to be defined up to the recommendations made by the European Commission. Important things. Eight points. We haven't heard much about this today. In particular, it is one matter, the problem is not the European Union, the problem is Slovenia. The European Union has not been in charge of Slovenia, and Slovenian banks have not been managed by the European Union and Slovenian companies have not been managed by the European Union. These are the problems that have arisen in our home, and these problems need to be solved. I would expect, given the high support you have received and the team you have, that this coalition treaty would contain at least a few concrete solutions so that voters and voters will know where this coalition will lead us. We don't know that today. We do not know what your priorities are, which will be your five priorities, which you will present in the National Assembly and on what basis you will be able to bring Slovenia out of this crisis. I doubt this because reforms are urgently needed in Slovenia. However, I doubtless expect more connectivity from the distinguished candidate for the term of office of Dr. Miro Cerar. I expect connectivity, because I am sure that Slovenia can only work together to resolve this crisis and that you will also invite the opposition to take important decisions to resolve important matters. Personally, I will support all proposals in favour of Slovenia in favour of taxpayers. However, I will not support proposals that will further burden taxpayers with additional burdens on the economy. The economy is the one that can save Slovenia. And try to do something to make the economy come back to life. The problem is in Slovenia and we must solve this problem ourselves.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u95	The word is from Dr. Bojan Dobovšek, SMC. Let's get the mags ready. Lilliana Kozlovich, SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members, honourable Members, the distinguished candidate for the term of office! When I have always advocated, years ago, to put an end to corruption, to prevent it from being fought against the worst forms of organised crime, to cut off those informal, negative networks that control Slovenia, I have achieved a lot in the field of expertise. A year ago, when a candidate for a mandate called me into a narrower group of people to take a higher step, a step forward, I assessed that we could do even more in the political field, and so came up a group of people who eventually formed a policy that won the elections. Now we have the next step – the formation of a government, which will be designed on competent people, on people who have experience both at home and abroad and will take Slovenia in the right direction where voters want it. Our civil society group has this advantage to remain committed to civil society. Not only is that part of our civil society, but civil society is wider, and the commitment is that we have to listen to people, their wishes and their criticism. Given what we have always advocated in the group itself, we have a higher priority. The first thing you heard was the rule of law. In doing so, we must point out not only what we all imagine under the rule of law, but the creation of legislation, the implementation of legislation and the respect of all institutions, not just the courts. And that will be the essence of achieving the following goals, especially what we have advocated. Preventing what has already been mentioned – the informal economy. Not only at the lowest level, which concerns ordinary people, but also at other levels. This means cutting into the economy and giving support to the right economy, in accordance with the law and in accordance with the rule of law, but not to the one operating in the tax havens and not to the one who exports products out at transfer prices, but not to the tax. So these are the commitments we made to our civil society. The priorities in the future are certainly in line with our vision for ecological Slovenia, what can separate us from others, because Slovenia is clean, green and indeed a beautiful country and support for farmers, tourism and all we can offer is the answer that will bring us out of this crisis in the future. And given that Dr. Miro Cerar is committed to all these goals, as well as many others that come from our programme, I will support him in becoming a mandate holder and that is our client's commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u97	The word has magic. Lilliana Kozlovich, SMC. Get Jean Mahnič ready, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u98	Dear President, honourable Members and Members, the distinguished candidate for the term of office of Dr. Miro Cerar! I believe that you will be elected today as a mandate-holder, because the people have somehow given you a mandate in the parliamentary elections. I have repeatedly wondered how a man, a candidate for the Prime Minister, feels about the burden of responsibility he takes when he has to make a decision about the whole country and the burden he takes when he decides on the living conditions of each individual and of the whole country. I believe that Dr Miro Cerar is the person who will accept this with responsibility, but above all, he will surround himself with capable and competent people who will not see their interests but the interests of the common and public good. For you, Dr. Miro Cerar, you are a great man and this great man does not lose even when he enters politics, even though by entering politics you lose some reputation and some friends. I believe that you will also bring this greatness into the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to decide quickly, but not recklessly, that you will not move away from the problems and that you will expose such painful things and give them a clear attitude. Although some say that we do not have a programme, we are aware of the importance of work in the party and I am confident that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will create conditions for people in all areas of social life to express their ability, their talent and their creativity in order to create greater wealth in the country and to restore its reputation. I am convinced that our goal is to restore dignity and dignity, especially to the poor, and that those who have been unjustifiably enriched should also be deprived of it. So, if I withdraw, this means that we will reward well and that we will sanction whenever sanctions are actually necessary. Dear Members and honourable Members, people have great hope, but not only because of Mir Cerar, but because they want a better life. However, they are aware that this is a process and that changes are needed. But if we are to achieve this, we need to start with these changes first. Together, we must be aware that we no longer have the rights that others have, but that we have much more responsibility. Let us not miss this opportunity, for we are examples of men. People turn and act as their leader does. Dr. Mir Cerar on this day, of course on the birthday of a sincere congratulations, and above all many successes on the way forward and of course happy, Dr. Miro Cerar, for us and for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u99	Mr Jan Mahnic, SDS, has the floor to prepare Mrs Marusha Škopac, SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u100	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished candidate for the term of office of Dr. Miro Cerar! I'm one of those people who had the opportunity of getting to know Dr. Cerar as a lecturer in college, and judging by what I heard there, I'm sure he'll be a better Prime Minister than his predecessor, despite the fact that we all know it's not at all difficult. At the same time, I'm disappointed. I was sure that today, Dr Cerar will come before the Members and Members with a initial coalition treaty, present its contents and then give a speech on this content. I'm afraid that didn't happen. It also seems unrealistic to me that after six weeks of elections, it is still not officially known which parties will be in the coalition, what is the final version of the coalition treaty. I believe that we should take the coalition and the government more seriously, but, judging by what I can read in the first three drafts of the coalition agreement, and judging by what composition the coalition is forecasting, we will get another socialist government, which will be homogeneous in terms of ideology, and there will be programmatic contradictions, especially when the expenditure side of the budget needs to be cut. Social Democrats are probably not going to give state property; DeSUS will oppose the reduction of pensions; you probably won't interfere with your electoral base; this is the public sector. Unfortunately, we will not be able to lower the expenditure side of the budget simply by moralising, so I would expect here, as my colleagues and colleagues have already said, more numbers and more realistic proposals. An important thing, these are young, important topics, which also did not receive sufficient support from your party. I would mention only three areas: education, employment and housing. These are the three most pressing areas in the youth field, and I hope that you will pay more attention to this in the future. Just like that for the countryside. I come alone from the Poljanska Valley, next door is Selska Valley. They don't need a property tax in my constituency. They need to start up, they need to invest, they need to unload the economy, they need to unload agriculture, they need good infrastructure, they need transport connections in particular. Unfortunately, I didn't hear anything about it either. There was a lot of talk about cooperation. I would just like to tell you that in this area, as far as the opposition is concerned, there is no need to invent warm water. We know the agreement that came about between 2004 and 2008, where 70% of the laws were in line with the opposition. So, the Slovenian Democratic Party will be constructive, we will support the measures. For the sake of citizens and citizens, I really hope, Dr Cerar, that you will succeed because it is time for something to move. And it's just advice. When you talk about the media about yourself, you don't talk about it in a third person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u101	Mrs. Marusha Škopac, SMC, has the floor. Get Dr. Mitja Horvat ready, SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u102	Honourable President of the National Assembly, distinguished candidate for the term of office of Dr. Miro Cerar, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Every time I enter the Chamber as a new Member, I feel a real great responsibility, my own and all of us, to enable Slovenians and Slovenes and residents and residents of Slovenia, with our decisions and sincere efforts for public good, to create better opportunities for their lives. The time I joined you is shattered. Not only because of the social and economic crisis, which has been knocking on almost every one of us for many years. He's broken by knowing people that he can't and can't go on. It is also broken down by people's decision that politicians will no longer allow the spread and tolerance of corruption to destroy the common future. It is largely fractured by a new awareness of a more responsible attitude towards the fellow human being, the community, the country. Therefore, I am happy and proud to be in this Chamber today, in such a society, and to be able to personally support Dr. Mir Cerar as the new government's mandate holder. For I firmly believe that we are with him and with the common commitment to public good able to find ways of cooperation and to make the right decisions for our citizens and the country. I am sure that we can all work together to create such a vision of the development of our Slovenia, that we will achieve not only the start of the economy but also the new creative elan and optimism of all citizens. Dear Members, let us no longer listen to political divisiveness and logistical whispering. Let us listen and hear people with precious experiences, knowledge, and responsible work. Let us give them a chance and support Dr. Mir Cerar in his efforts to improve tomorrow in our Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u103	The word has Dr. Mitja Horvat, SMC. Get Mr. Simon Zajc ready, SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u104	Thank you very much, chairman, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Today we are here to choose the head of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In my opinion, the candidate for President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is more than a boss. It's a leader. If I wanted to be just a boss, then I'd have accepted that challenge a long time ago. It offers something more, it offers leadership and, of course, it does not meet those goals that are owning everyone's typical desire, ambition to become a boss. Clear goals that can be pursued, preferably through fighting, with separations to ours and yours, because then, of course, it is significantly easier to do such work. Why do I say that Dr. Miro Cerar, today a candidate for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, is also a leader? Because it accepts bigger challenges and pursues higher targets. He is not interested in the narrow goals that could already be set before him, but he is able and willing to accept any challenge in view of what a serious analysis will show when the government undertakes its work and in various areas, what are the problems, what solutions need to be drawn up and, above all, all of these solutions are linked to a clear whole. That is why, despite the apparent expansion of the government, of course, it is an appropriate team that will be able to learn, analyse and make decisions, given the data that is certainly not pleasant. And again, the greatness of the leader of Dr. Mir Cerar, the candidate for Prime Minister, is that he is willing to take a shaky path, a difficult path, a path of patient, respectful dialogue in which all interests can be expressed, not only narrow interests, in particular not only the interests of the centres of power, so that the decisions that we have been hearing about all day long can be those that will be acceptable to all the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia and which will bring the final result, the goal that we all want, so that people in the Republic of Slovenia will live again and again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u105	Mr Simon Zajc, SMC, has the floor. Get Mr. Luka Moon ready, United Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I will vote for the confirmation of Dr Cerar for several reasons. We all know that we are in a situation where the government will have a very difficult job. The things that need to be rectified are huge, the areas that need to be devoted to them are also many, the idea of how to solve these problems is even more, some ideas contradict each other, so it is imperative that the government be led by a man who is capable of calm, who is not exclusive, who is overly considerate, who is respectful. And lately, when I had the opportunity to observe Dr. Cerar a little closer to his work, I made sure that Dr. Cerar had all these qualities. Dr. Cerar is also not a man who is burdened with various backgrounds, so he is afraid that he will be plagued by the fear of having an unloving truth from the past or by an awkward connection. For this reason, I personally strongly trust Dr Cerar, and for this reason, I will also vote for him as a mandate-holder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u107	Mr Luka Mesec, United Left, has the floor to prepare Mr Janez Janša, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! I may have a somewhat untypical contribution to this atmosphere. Now that I've heard the debate, I've had a hard time reading an analogy from a book I recently read. In his book Red, French philosopher Michel Foucault found out or wondered why something was inconceivable during a certain period of history. He wondered what was the set of ideas that appeared at a certain historical moment, where it came from and how this set of ideas was preserved through social debates. He gave an interesting example. He found an old Chinese encyclopedia where animals were not classified as mammals, molluscs, single-cellers and so on, as they were classified today, but were classified as wild, those belonging to the emperor had even a category of those drawn with fine camel feathers. Why am I telling you this? When I listen to this debate in this Chamber, it seems to me that Members from different winds, despite certain political differences, are essentially repeating the same ideas. From all winds we hear "we need to start an economy, we need to relieve wages, we need lower taxes, we need more competitiveness" and so on. In short, all the debates we have just heard could, if we talk about political and economic schools, be reduced to one school alone and this is a somewhat widespread school of economic liberalism. I would like to point out this because it seems to me that, for the last time in his interview in Youth, economist Dr Jože Mencinger, who said that in Slovenian politicians – although he criticized a particular party – but that it is too often in Slovenian politics that people say certain things without being able to understand the differences between economic schools at all, even though they may even inadvertently refer to one particular economic school. Therefore, I find, in essence, that when I spoke in my initial contribution about the iron laws of history, it is said that Slovenian policy has been convinced for the past few years that Slovenia has only one way, this is the way of competitiveness, fiscal consolidation, increasing productivity, reducing wages, cutting the public sector and so on, these iron laws are not so much imposed from some foreign power centers that we imagine as some mythological structures that completely control us, but in many cases it is easy to have these iron laws of ideology embedded in our consciousness. That is why my call to the Members of this new composition of the National Assembly, among whom fortunately there are many new ones and they are not so engaged in debates that have over the past 20 years greatly impressed Slovenian policy to open your mind and eyes to various approaches, to various political and economic schools that have unfortunately stopped reading in Slovenia and that we all stop pretending that there is only one way and that the world we live in is the only possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u109	Mr Janez Janša, SDS, has the floor. Get Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer ready, SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, again. Before representing the position of the Group of Members, I said that there were no numbers and no deadlines in the opening speech of the candidate for Prime Minister, and that we were expecting the specification of the outline of the programme in the remainder of the time available to the candidate. In order to help make this picture as concrete as possible, I would like to ask a few specific questions, which I think the Slovenian public deserves a concrete answer on this day. Firstly, we ask the candidate for Prime Minister what economic growth Slovenia wants to achieve in the next four years. Secondly, I ask the candidate for Prime Minister what measures the government should take to create an environment so that economic growth is possible. A few times today, we have heard that this is irrelevant and that prosperity grows on trees as well as leaves on the lip. But economic growth in the real world is the only real basis for prosperity. Without created, without economic growth there are no jobs, no money for emergency services, no money for social services, no money for solidarity, nothing. If we don't create ourselves, we need to borrow it while someone's lending it to us, but we need to get it back. So, what measures will the new government, which is supposed to draw up on the authority given to the candidate by the legislative body today, be very likely to achieve economic growth or create an environment for economic growth in the next four years, and what will it be like after years? They're only four years old, so I'm sure these numbers won't be hard to list. The next question is what will happen to employment or unemployment. Unemployment is one of the worst problems, as a result of all that we have talked about before, but for every unemployed one, it is his biggest problem and the cause of many other problems. In our view, true social policy is creating new jobs, not giving social support and charity. This is why we are particularly interested in what measures the government will further reduce the number of unemployed, especially among young people, where this problem is the most pressing, and as a result it has not affected the fact that the best brain will not leave Slovenia every year, as it has been happening to us for many years now, especially with the stomach for bread. In Slovenia, there are more than 120 thousand unemployed by statistics, but statistics do not cover everything. There are another 20,000 fictional enrollments in colleges or universities, and here there are categories that simply fell out because of changes in methodologies, not among the unemployed. So Slovenia currently has about 150 000 people without work. That's a huge number. It's a huge number that's never happened before. One of the first priorities of each government should be that this number starts to shrink very quickly and that it is approaching some of the sustainable numbers we had in 2007, 2008, partly also 2009, which is below 60,000, below 65 thousand unemployed. At least. My next question concerns the next very pressing problem, which has been completely overlooked, is the centralisation of the country. All these problems, which were discussed by colleagues from various parliamentary groups, are not evenly distributed across Slovenia. For example, unemployment, which I have talked about before, is a much smaller problem in Ljubljana and in the central Slovenian region than in Prekmurje, Styria, Notranjska and elsewhere. In fact, this problem is even smaller in the central Slovenian region. So what the government will do to reduce centralisation, to make the baseline living opportunities for people, for young people, for children born anywhere in Slovenia more and more equal because they are not now. In Slovenia it is very important where you are born. This depends on the quality of life, in fact, to death, to the height of the pension, and everything else. Centralism is a stubborn thing. We have very strong interests behind him, and I expect that this manna, which is both in the coalition treaties and has been very much seen in the upcoming speech of the candidate for Prime Minister of the Government, will be eliminated when the Government's normative programme is being implemented. The next question is about the previous questions. Does the President of the Government, together with the government, intend to maintain good practice from some of the previous mandates, when the government visited one of the Slovenian regions or provinces each month, had a meeting there, solved many of the specific problems of the environment on the ground and also met with all the development actors in the individual, so far statistical, region? The next question is what are the government's regionalisation plans. Does Slovenia need provinces or not, and is there any government ambition here to move things forward? We know that the previous governments have not been interested in this and that nothing has been done here, despite the fact that the entire package of legislation is ready with all the calculations and that some laws have actually been adopted up to the second reading in one of the previous mandates. However, the last question that cannot be so connected to the number is also important. In the next speech of the candidate for Prime Minister, there was some talk on Slovenian foreign policy. I did not understand from these sentences the very clear definition of what this policy should be. Slovenia is a member of many international organisations, not only universal, such as the United Nations, but also of others, such as the North Atlantic Alliance, and is an equal member of the European Union. This entails such and different obligations, since, as far as NATO and the European Union, Slovenia and Slovenia are concerned, we have decided on this at the referendum and there is no doubt that the division for the policy of both associations is something supported by a broad public will in this country. So, I'm asking the candidate for Prime Minister of the Government whether his government will follow a well-known policy in the coming term, based on the definition of the European Union and NATO and whether it will have the temptation as a previous government, [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] mediates between the Russian Federation and the European Union. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u111	The word is from Dr. Simon Kustec Lipicer, SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u112	Thank you very much. In a way, I would like to sum up the red thread of today's debate by electing Dr. Mir Cerar as President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The red thread of today's debate was actually moving around the issue of the type of leadership and the type of political leader in this mission it has. We have heard in a way very different elements that this person is supposed to have, as well as the characteristics of the quality of leadership that we should possess in order to be successful. I would like to say that we are actually talking about a historical phenomenon and that we need to be aware that it is a highly dynamic open concept when we talk about water and governance in the event of political action, and that it is generally only in practice that this leader is what he is and what this type of leadership is. What we have been able to hear from the views and assessments of today's debaters, and in fact from some general estimates, is that we are talking about a person who, like the right leaders – now I speak by theory – has two key characteristics in particular. It's how we deal with problems and its personality traits. While this way of solving problems in democratic systems is always geared towards a comprehensive cut in both the state of the problem being solved, the search for the right solutions and, on the basis of this adoption and the actual implementation of these solutions, which bring some changes, effects, in the context of today's debate, effects for the public good. On the other hand, when we focus on the characteristics of the leader, we actually find that good leaders denote above all solid values and assumptions of his personality. In today’s case, we discussed the following qualities in this context. We discussed the qualities of high professional credibility, experience, teamwork, connectivity, openness, accuracy, commitment, honesty. So we talked about the characteristics and modes of action that we have found at the outset that today, at today's development point, this country needs our people if we are to get back on track for a good and bright future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u113	Does the candidate for Prime Minister, Dr. Miro Cerar, want to answer questions from the debate or provide further clarifications? Please. With the benches, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u114	I apologize, I thought I would have a better view of all the many debaters and debates ahead of me. First of all, thank you very much for this debate, for the encouraging words and for the words, the criticisms, the questions and everything you have given me in your debates. In particular, I have been taking note of questions, especially doubts and thoughts that I will now respond to. As a matter of fact, I have also found many encouraging words. Of course, I am very grateful to all the debaters you have given me, but at the outset I would say that I have never marked myself as a moral authority, as was said. However, it is true that this mark — especially since I have been in politics — has often been attributed to me, perhaps as a good starting point then for stricter criteria for assessing my conduct, but it is fine, it is normal, I agree to it and will continue to strive to be like me, it is said that I will follow those values that we have also outlined as fundamental values in our client. First, I would respond to some very important introductory thought, in fact, doubts about the legitimacy of these elections, which were held on 13 July this year. In this regard, I would like to tell the Members and Members present, i.e. the honourable assembly, as citizens and citizens, that, according to my assessment and the deep conviction of this election, they are fully legitimate, fully legitimate and legal. I think that the situation created by Mr Janša being legally convicted and, of course, having had an SDS party because of this understandable certain embarrassment, is certainly not a situation that is easy and I regret it in some way, given the objective reasons. But this situation cannot possibly mean that the elections that took place on 13 July are under any question and that any questionable outcome is the outcome of these elections. These elections were open to all parties, including the SDS, including Mr Janša, to a limited extent, but unfortunately I and no one else in the political space could influence this. We had media attention. The party I mentioned, namely SDS, is very large, even larger than other parties, in many ways. Of course, she had some handicap on the other side, but look, the elections were completely legal, so it's done in accordance with the law. There was no reason anyone would challenge them. People came to the elections despite a very inappropriate time, so in the middle of the summer, in the middle of the summer, in the middle of the holidays, in the middle of the semi-participation, they said they supported their candidates, and all of them who were running in those elections, of course, by the time we went to them, we recognized them as legitimate. And we are also sitting here today because we recognize them as legitimate and, of course, legal. And that's why I don't think any of the parables, the metaphors that have been said here are in place. Mostly I'd say so. Our client is new in the political space. We have entered this place, as has already been mentioned, without any political burden from the past, with no connection to any lobby, background, uncle, anything. There's been a lot of talk about that in the open. And that is why it is all the more important that I point out the fact that we, in particular, cannot agree to any disqualification of our current opposition, so I also insist on my role, which I have now assumed, and that is why I will continue to answer the remaining questions. If you end up giving me support as a candidate for Prime Minister of the Government and if we succeed in shaping the government as I intend, this government will be fully legal, legitimate, no matter what may happen in the future. But I'd like to mention something, if you don't mind. We were handicapped by elections, too. Not because we were a new customer and we were somehow put into some sort of time crisis, which perhaps other parties who already existed did not perceive in this way. But personally and ourselves in the party were somehow disappointed by the decisions of the competent authorities that set this date as the date on which the elections are to be held. In this way, this National Assembly, the President of the State and, last but not least, the Constitutional Court interpreted the Slovenian Constitution in such a way that it was very difficult for a large number of voters to exercise their electoral rights, if not impossible for anyone. And if I could speak now because I did not speak up as a constitutional lawyer, because I had already entered politics when this situation arose, and it seemed inappropriate for me to comment on this situation as a lawyer, because it would not be credible, it would not be right. I left this to my colleagues from various colleges and other positions in the legal spheres. But it would seem to me, after the stop, absolutely necessary to ensure a longer period of opportunity for voters to cast their vote. If elections are to be held at a time when they are difficult, when, for actual reasons, voters are unable to exercise their electoral rights, then the time to cast their votes should be stretched out so that this matter is actually compensated for the handicap and that is normal constitutional and legal logic. It's only so much that I'm finally going to bring up a thought on this subject. I've been detained so far, and I said maybe it's an opportunity now. My word, which I have mentioned, was mentioned and repeated, namely, "the immaturity" of the nation. That word was not meant in any insulting sense, but the fact is that in times past we have proved to be immature or, rather, not mature enough to lead this country. We have sometimes taken wonderful, decisive steps in the right direction, but all this irresponsibility, all this corruption, all this dispersion of the system at different points, that's actually irresponsibility. Irresponsibility to ourselves, to our children, to future generations, and this is immatureness, that is, to a nation that does not understand that a country must also be treated as a good that must be managed responsibly. Not because we are here to meet politicians and say something that seems important to us, but because of what has already been said, people, citizens and citizens. And when we truly mature the nation, we will not only know it well, but also actually execute it. And one of the debaters mentioned something that I would actually say is a red thread of our current political and wider social practice. We write a lot, we talk a lot, and then we don't respect it. True, as has been said, one of the fundamental problems of our rule of law is the non-compliance with the laws already written. The laws aren't perfect either. At times, they may have been purposefully tailored to some interests, which were often found to be late or too late, but in the vast majority we simply do not respect our constitution, let alone legislation. What are finally the grey economy, tax non-discipline, payment non-discipline, corruption of all kinds? These are signs of disrespect for our citizens and citizens, because this is, of course, an asset at their expense or it is treated so uneconomically that this property is lost in the void and then we have so many problems that we are dealing with now. It has been said that the rule of law is not enough to require the rule of law. This is proof of how limited the policy is, in fact, and I do not think of a specific debater, it was not so meant, so Mr Janša, who mentioned it. I think the statement was thought to be very correct. But since I am an expert in this field, I would say that, like, for example, someone who is not a lawyer, it is difficult to very precisely define such matters, as well as someone who is not an economist, a financier, a culturer, a school student, anything very competent to discuss these areas. And it is not the task of the President of the Government to be fully competent in all areas governed by the government, managed, guided, guided. The task of the President of the Government is to guide, coordinate and strategically guide the government and, to the best of its ability and knowledge, to the extent possible, to be familiar with all these areas, but of course, to the problems that are most important at a certain point in time. But as in the National Assembly, we all need experts in the parliamentary groups, in the committees themselves, elsewhere, to invite experts to advise us many times, so, of course, the government has its own experts and has its ministers and state secretaries who are specialists in specific areas. Of course, it is important, and it will also be based on my direction that the government acts as a homogeneous whole as possible, that it does not happen in the past that we have often witnessed some feudalisation of the ministry, as it is commonly called, when every minister and ministry is working for themselves, sometimes even a little too much on the sidelines of party policy and less public policy, and then there are many inconsistencies, misinformation between ministries and therefore the inefficiency of the government and the system in general. So, the government needs a coordinated operation, linked, but also needs competent staff, it needs competent ministers as well as state secretaries and, of course, the entire administrative apparatus that assists it. And that's why we need each other. Therefore, it is not appropriate and reasonable to manipulate these matters. That is why the government also needs the National Assembly and vice versa. Indeed, there are many laws that have been written in the past and have been stuck in some drawers like this, I will say, a working way to say it, because at that time there was no political will to enforce it. I have also participated in expert groups in the drafting of certain laws that have thus become non-applicable, so they may not even have been sent to the procedure in the National Assembly or have not been adopted. And all these laws deserve attention, because if at that time there may have been no political will for them, but the law is good, these laws are good, the solutions in them are good, we too will gladly examine them and use them, as I said, what is good, and ignore what may not be important right now, is not useful to society or is not necessarily. And that is why, of course, I will be very pleased to have this cooperation with all of you, with opposition or coalition, with all the experienced politicians who have already participated in these processes, to reveal these laws to us, to warn us about them, if we do not find all of them immediately, and that then creatively, as has been said, we are also in cooperation to find those solutions that are important to the state and the citizens. To get back to the state of law. I started this because the rule of law is today – just a little bit of my professor's wire allow me – in modern legal theory, the collective term for the German term Rechtsstaat, that is, the rule of law, and the English state, and above all the English, Anglo-Saxon concept of rule of law, is the rule of law. And today, when we talk about the rule of law, we're not talking about the country with the laws, we're not talking about the country where the laws rule, we're talking about the new concept, which is, in fact, the whole of Europe and the Western Hemisphere. So that the concept of the rule of law means both, in fact, means some integration of both terms. And when I talk about the rule of law, I don't have an administratively regulated country, a country that follows some rules without their evaluation, without taking into account constitutional principles and other legalitys of law, but I am speaking exactly what was said, as Mr Janša also mentioned, about the rule of law, of course. And of course we need the rule of law or the rule of law, and probably even more so than we imagine, because the whole system has fallen at that point. If we look at one interesting thing. You're all talking about numbers here. True, I didn't say much about numbers, I mentioned a few years ago, but I would like citizens, citizens and everyone else to know that I presented here today, as stated in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the programme design of the government. It wasn't a government program, it wasn't a coalition agreement. These were the government's programming designs. If we're talking about the designs, we're talking about something in general, about some, I would say, a fundamental aspect of the future functioning of the government. And if you look at the presentations in previous years, they were very different, but none of them have fully revealed what the government will do later. 'Cause that's what we're gonna get to. Why is that important? Because in this respect, I did not feel that it was so urgent to present some numbers, not even those that are unreliable and who are misleading. Remember in the election campaign, what it was like. When someone pointed out the numbers, they said, "That's unrealistic, how you're going to do that, you're just saying it in your head. When he didn't expose them, they said, "Set the numbers." We have the numbers, and I'll tell you. For example, in the coalition agreement we wrote that in 2015 we will address the country's excessive deficit of less than 3% of gross social product and then gradually reduce the structural deficit of 0.5 GDP per year and ensure the long-term sustainability of public finances. For instance. I'm on my way. A gradual reduction in the deficit will also result in a reduction in indebtedness. The public debt will exceed 80% of GDP by the end of the year. In 2015, it will increase to about 81.1% of GDP and then gradually decrease and so on. Believe me, in our client, in the coalition and in the future government we have and we will have many experts dealing only with these matters in various areas. Because I'm not a financier, because I'm not an economist, I'm learning from them and I'm learning from them. But something I have to say is that the numbers have been repeatedly exposed in recent years. All the previous governments, all the previous coalitions, have been putting together the numbers that we have today – what? Let's ask ourselves, what? We have about 29 billion public debt, we have an excessive budget deficit, we have a crisis situation in the economy, we have a social situation, I don't speak any further. One fifth of citizens are below the poverty line. Thousands and thousands a year escape us abroad, old, young, even the most promising. All those figures announced by previous coalitions, previous governments, previous parties, were blank projections. Shall I tell you a projection to make it a little more visual? TEM 6, the projection was 600 million, ended with 1.43 billion so far, and we do not know if the matter will work as it was intended or as it should. We know about the problems at Velenje Mine in relation to TES 6, we know that the matter is inseparably connected, and we know that there are still many questions that are likely to need to be answered. This was, say, one of the projections shared by different governments, but I don't want to condemn or accuse, I just want to explain that numbers say little if there are no values. If we have an invitation to tender and choose someone who offers the lowest price, this would be the wisest thing to do by numbers, but if we do it only because we know that we will later conclude an annex and it will increase this price, or to get a commission or bribe under the table – so if there is no value in this process, then this price will rise once or twice, and finally we have a situation that we are in today. That is why the policy that we bring with our party, which we want to bring into this space, among all citizens and citizens – I am not just talking about state policy, I am talking about governance policy with our social, state and individual property – is such that we simply have to have some values. If we deal responsibly with companies, with state property, with the budget in this context, then I will tell you that the numbers will improve even if we don't put them on paper right now. And that is why, despite the fact that the numbers will be presented – they will, of course, have to be, and the government needs them, at the right time and in the right way – we must be aware that nothing will apply unless we do what I said in the opening speech: implement those values that are crucial to the functioning of the country and society. The fact that the government is increasing the number of ministries is, of course, nominal. It is true that we are increasing the number of ministries, but not to spend, in order to spend, but because it appears that we will achieve more effective functioning of some ministries or departments and governments in full. We are establishing a new Ministry of Environment and Space because this is professionally justified. This was supported by the profession and was very positively surprised. We are setting up a public administration as a special ministry only to enable the Minister, with his team, to take responsibility for this area, the area of public administration, which requires particular emphasis and special care. It is difficult to have a minister who covers two important departments that both claim special social care and responsibility, and then it happens that the Minister covers only one and the other, a secretary of state who, at the best of will, cannot replace the fact that he is not a minister. We want to take a responsible approach to these problems, so the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Public Administration are setting up or organising separately. Assembling or reducing the number of ministries in the past did not bring lower spending costs and did not bring fewer employees and unfortunately did not increase efficiency. We are absolutely aware that we are here on slippery ground, that we must not exaggerate in any way, and we will not do so, but we will be prudent. But what was necessary for the country to function more effectively, we are ready to do and we will do. I apologize, but I am following somewhat unsystematicly the topics you have brought down on me in your debates. If I had a break, I could have prepared myself a little more organised, and I am following linear comments, questions and criticisms. It is true that there has been an unloving error, a technical error, that the last text of the draft coalition agreement has fallen out of the text on determining liability for so-called bank holes. It was simple to think that one of the concrete writers of the text simply omitted this part in redesigning the text, without any behaviour of all of us who are involved in this substantively, namely me, the negotiators from our party and on the other hand the coalition partners. It really was a bare technical thing, I'd say, a mistake or a release, and of course we corrected it immediately. We will confidently study this responsibility. The question was also raised as to what we would do. We will do what is within the rule of law. If it turns out that someone is criminally, civilly or otherwise responsible for these matters or disciplinaryly, he will be responsible, normally. It has also been mentioned, and this somehow prompts me to respond to this, that there was a constitutional coalition in Parliament after the elections with an ideological omen on the left, that is, a left ideological coalition that has a constitutional majority, which does not otherwise form a government, because we all know that we are three coalition partners and we do not have such a majority, but it is argued, as I can see that a constitutional ideology is being established, as I said, a coalition. I would respond to this: when it comes to the constitution when it comes to changing the constitution, that is to say, questions of extreme importance, of great importance to all of us in this country, then, in fact, it must not be and personally I will not allow some ideological coalitions, even if it could be formed, but it is not to tell you, it is not. Maybe that's what someone thinks when they study the matter from afar. For the constitution must be decided in a way that all actors may find a common language. And except, if there is to be a vote, we come to this with a very patient process, with a comprehensive debate, with the help of the opposition, the coalition and all the parties. And from practice, we know very well that no government that has approached perhaps even the constitutional majority has ever had a constitutional majority quite automatic for constitutional change. And that's right. The Constitution is one of the good things we need to consider as a special case. We really need to approach constitutional changes, as is often said, with a shaking hand. And that is why I guarantee that even though it would ever be designed for a project, for someone, I would say, a particular matter governed by the Constitution, a two-thirds majority, it will not be conditioned by some ideological omen, but by what we will together, including citizens and citizens, assess that Slovenia needs. There will also be a need to take into account public opinion, civil society and all other actors before any decisions are made. As for some statements, criticisms, criticisms and initiatives by New Slovenia and the United Left, I will try to respond in some way together. Obviously, there are some very important differences between our client and these two parties in understanding how to take this society forward. Not at the very core – we would all like the good of Slovenia, Slovenia, Slovenia, Slovenia, I believe that – but everyone has a vision, and that is legitimate in politics. But you must understand that we have received as many votes as we have received in the elections and that this means something in the negotiations. This means that we and our programme have greater support for citizens and citizens. It's our commitment. And if some concept, for example, is exposed by the United Left, is completely incompatible with us in some respects, which will in the future also lead to criticism of our action on the part of this party, it will be understandable. But it is also understandable that we cannot participate in the coalition if, of course, the United Left is not ready to take any compromise more seriously towards what we represent. This has also proved to be true in the negotiations with New Slovenia. On our side, we tried to find a common language. We offered a lot of solutions that were very, very similar to yours, but you made a different choice. But it must be understood that we cannot accept your program if we have received so much voter support. It's a real fact. You say your program is the best in Slovenia. I believe he's the best for someone, and for those who supported you, he's the best for those who supported us and those who supported others, but he's the best program they have. And that's why we need to take these things real, just like it does in politics. If it is not possible to find a common language immediately, then a compromise must be sought. In the compromise, however, it is important to take into account how much weight someone has, especially in terms of the support of the voters he is committed to, and I think this is very important. That is not true, and I must say, I must reject the idea that we are running out of courage or will to reform, for change. We will be making changes, but we will apply these changes in a way that we will jointly agree in a coalition agreement with our partners, and that will lead to an impact that will be successful. Only in the most crucial areas, where action will actually need to be done fairly radically immediately, will we address such measures. Where this is not necessary, we will carefully, prudently look for the best measures and take them at the right time, for example when we are talking about pension reform. I would say so, too, it was mentioned in the debate that, of course, we in our party, in the coalition, like everyone else, feel committed to the goals that we have in the last eight plus one, that is nine recommendations – the ninth is about corruption, we must not forget. This is a very bad signal that this is how they think of us now, as the European Commission has said in these recommendations. These goals she has set for us are, of course, our goals. When we read the problem when we look at labour market issues, public finances, pension reforms and so on, up to number 9, we can really identify ourselves with the objectives, but of course in the ways that we are going to take to these goals, we are not necessarily tied to everything that the European Union advises us to do. And I think that's right. They'll understand that, too. If we find our way, a better way, one that is more adapted to Slovenian character, situation and needs, and with it we will also, as effectively as possible, achieve the objectives set, then this path will have to be acceptable to Europe, and I am sure it will. But if we go down, of course, we will be grateful to each other if we help each other to do so, but also if there are any new directions, but I think we will not go down anymore, that we now have a great deal of experience from past years, which we must not do, and therefore I believe that we will also be able to find these paths in these recommendations, to convince Europe and also to achieve what we want. It was mentioned that people gave electoral support to strangers and to me, to people without a program, to a party without a program, and so on. That's what we've been listening to all along the political campaign. I have to respond to that because it's right to say it isn't. We have a program. We introduced him at the beginning of the election campaign with a few days of delay, but we did. We were just a new customer, and we needed some time to finally design it, and then we represented it throughout the campaign. If we collected all the contributions in all the media we presented, it was safe for 100 pages. And it's not true that we're a client of anonymous people. On the contrary, the people behind me, and all those who make up our customer, our sympathizers, are many very strongly recognized in their environments, as good, honest, working, successful, socially useful people. That's why they're here, the ones elected, and the others who participated in our campaign. In our narrow core, there are many recognizable personalities who have been in public space for years and years to point out that we are going in the wrong direction. I was among them myself, and when things got to the point where it was obvious that we didn't see anyone else who could really listen to us, we had to go into politics. The state and citizens received what I had heard many times and what proved necessary since support was given: new faces, new faces. There is not a single policy in our political party from the previous mandates of the National Assembly, new faces. But that doesn't mean we're anonymous, and it doesn't mean we're without knowledge, without will and courage. And that's why I'm telling the coalition partners to count on us very strongly when we run this coalition and me when I lead this government. Remember that we have placed among the five fundamental values that our party places, especially social responsibility. That's what we're aware of. I will not respond to some of the debates that may have been somewhat unworthy at the borders of some appropriate political dialogue. But I would like to say to some obvious statement that I am a jester and that I did not hope or wish to embark on the path of the Prime Minister or the President of the Government last year, and that it would be better if I did it then, because then I would no longer be here and someone else would have taken the matter further. It was something like that. I'm sorry if I didn't literally take it. That's what I'd call next. When I received the offer of four political parties last year and the intended support of 55 Members to become President of the Government, which would mean that I would just sit in a chair and become President of the Government, I decided differently simply because in that situation I did not see the possibility that in that coalition at that moment alone, without any support group with the values that I would share, I could effectively lead a government. And since I knew I couldn't live up to my expectations, I just didn't do it. I thanked you very much and with all due respect left the leadership of the government in this case to Mrs Alenka Bratušek, who was then elected. If I had accepted an offer then I don't know what would have happened. But it certainly wasn't the same situation as it is now. Today I have a group of people sitting behind me who share my values. I believe that many of these values are shared by you too, and today I too can take a more competent approach to design on this basis, otherwise, with a second thought, and later to lead the government. I am pleased that we have the right coalition partners to engage in constructive discussions. I'm aware it won't be easy enough. We are also not entirely ideological, political, problematic and otherwise coordinated with them. But this is the dynamics of politics and this is the legality of the political system in which we live, where coalition governments are a necessity, and so I will make sure that in the given circumstances in this coalition we achieve all that we have planned. Will there be enough competent people in the government? Let me repeat: I will do everything I have to to make sure that they are part of the task. I would also say that I do not stand up, as I said before, for some ethical authority and even less to tolerate any ethical or valuable or any other irregularity in my own party. In recent days, some media have published some half-truths and untruths, which have led us to have thorough discussions in our client. We studied some materials, took a lot of time to study things, and found that it was actually in these media for untruths, half-truths and manipulations. We have responded with the public statement you find on the website, and we will also respond to it in the same way. If any of us are ever suspected of doing something wrong, illegal, unethical, whatever, we'll be fair to the point. [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] examine carefully, and when we find out what is really going on, we make the right decisions. That means I have to finish, doesn't it? I'm sorry I forgot a little bit about the time. If I have to finish [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u115	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. If he also wishes to discuss the candidate for Prime Minister, Dr. Miro Cerar, please apply with a raise of hands. He gets the last word. I'm asking you to sign up. Each debater has 5 minutes of time available. The first debater is Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u116	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, a very nice greeting on my part as well! I personally value and respect Mr Mir Cerar's candidate, but he has put me in some doubt at the outset of his political decisions. As a builder myself, I always first ask myself what the foundations are, whether these foundations are solid, have a good basis for further construction. And what is a good basis for government or government? The foundation and a good foundation is a very solid coalition. Do we have a solid coalition? I believe the candidate believes he has it, but here I am in doubt. First, he began to form a government with a party that had already overthrown the government three times. The parties give such a large measure of validity – if we look at past experiences, we will see very quickly what this strength is. Earlier it was said that there were not many numbers today. President, Mr Karl Erjavec is the only one who has said the number here today. But it wasn't a measure where it's saved, it wasn't a measure of where it's going to be created, but it was actually just a condition, a requirement of how much it takes, and today, I would say, at the first session, when we're actually just setting up, we call it, we elect the Prime Minister. I do not know whether you have agreed to this in the coalition negotiations that this request by DeSUS was to be re-exposed here today that the public knows what the price was and so on. I believe that all Slovenian pensioners will soon realize that pension funds create an economy, do not create a promise. The economy creates funds for pensions. Dear candidate, I believe that you will also be able to present this reality in the coalition, because the government will not be able to run academically, but it will have to be guided by measures and reality. That's what you say. You can't live off promises. I, Mr President or candidate for the Prime Minister, still believe in your good work, in your success, and I believe that you will surprise me and all Slovenian citizens in your work in a positive direction. Nevertheless, I would end up asking one question: Do you believe that this coalition is strong or strong enough to last all four years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u117	The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u118	Your Honor! Of course, political power is important in any composition of any coalition. And it is undeniable that the political power of the Mir Cerar Party is greater than the political power of New Slovenia. But we can't go through the next analysis that when we go on an election campaign, people don't like to hear unpleasant things. People prefer to hear pleasant things, what will be shared, what will be done, and what needs to be done, and what may be taken away. Perhaps there should be a reason for the difference as a result of the fact that we were already talking about unpleasant things at the time of the election campaign. You spoke of much more pleasant things at the time, yet you will now experience a lot of unpleasant things. Let me give you just a few: 350 million euros is open because we need an agreement with the public sector for 2015, 250 million is still uncovered money from the property tax falling, at least 500 million of us will be wiped out, 400 million are likely to be disposed of by owners of subordinate financial instruments, 750 million Croatian savers and so on. If you draw the line quickly, you get to a billion and a half, which is a huge amount. And those of us who were Members of the previous term, and when we accepted the infamous ZUJF-2, were many pressures, heavy e-mails, measurements and the like, but this ZUJF was only worth about EUR 400 million. You're gonna have to do it for a billion and a half. I hope you're imagining these dimensions. It's going to be extremely, extremely bad. Of course you have two choices. One is that you're making a big other ZUJF, and the other is that you're still in debt. But Slovenia already has EUR 29 billion in debt, which generates at least a billion interest each year. We throw this billion euro away without any reduction in debt. And this billion euros in the budget represents 10% of the budget, which is less for public health, public education and the like. So if this trend does not stop, Slovenia will be buried in one way or another. And given that you have an extremely unpleasant truth and unpleasant situation ahead of you, in New Slovenia we naively believed that you would rely on people who want to make the most of the things that Slovenia needs. You mentioned them yourself, eight recommendations from the European Commission. Our program also relies on these things and works in this direction. We have also proposed a number of unpleasant things, although people do not like it because of the help of Slovenia. You said that, given our scope and our strength, we are not difficult enough to follow this program, which I understand is perfectly legitimate, and this is the matter of your decision on which you lean. However, I must say that you are extremely brave that you have taken into the government coalition partners who advocate even more spending and who will most likely escape on the first occasion when public opinion support falls slightly. That's a lot of courage. But I don't want to end up pessimistic. I will say again: I want you to succeed, because if you succeed, then the whole of Slovenia will succeed.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u119	Mr Jožef Horvat, New Slovenia, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, once again a respected candidate for President of the new Slovenian government! I understand what the government's programming designs mean, of course, and I also understand what the coalition treaty means, even more when it's signed. And when colleague Žnidar spoke about how important the stability of the coalition is, and when you yourself mentioned that you would listen to the warnings from the opposition as well, I am an optimist here and somehow allow myself to recommend to the coalition that this coalition treaty is as exact as possible. I am not saying that you take a model of the Black-Red Coalition Treaty in Germany, but there are actually written all the steps, in some way technological procedures, and then it is also a guarantee of the stability of the government. Because what's going to happen? If certain solutions in a coalition agreement or agreement, as you say, are not to be explicitly defined, then any coalition partner will be able to understand this differently and a minister or even a president of a coalition party in the government will support some law and after a government meeting will come in front of the cameras and say, "Yes, and I don't know if my Members will accept it." And it's already a problem and it's in the coalition. These are the experiences we've seen. And why not, because we have a memory, prevent such situations. If I spoke earlier about a sermon of the celebration of today's session, when we love, name and so forth, and it will go more or less smoothly, with good wishes above all to you, Dr. Cerar, then of course we all realize that tomorrow will be a day – because it is already today, but tomorrow will be a real day when we have to think about those people who do not know what to put in the pot for their family today. With the solutions to make these people as few as possible, of course we Christian Democrats want to stand by you. Here I would also like to point out that today this has been repeatedly mentioned in the debate that we have good laws but that they are not implemented. Here I would like to highlight legislation or the law on coherent regional development. I'm not saying he's bad, I think he's good, but he's not doing it right, and that's why we have such terrible differences in development, in the development of individual regions. I will not only mention and favor Pomurje, which I come from, but also other regions. Today we have heard that Koroška is a problem and some other problem. Unfortunately, in 2007 and 2008, the opposition made a mistake not to support regionalisation. If we had provinces today, if we had regions today, I guarantee that the situation in Slovenia would be different. And also because we Members and Members of New Slovenia have talked a lot about the economy. I'm sure we can work together here. We have had very receptive meetings for values in previous years, and I fully agree with you that some government solutions need to be equipped and enriched with values. These are sometimes not clearly written or articulated, but should also be included in the implementation of the solution. It must also be that we cannot and must not spend more than we create. This is clear to everyone in the household economy. This must also be clear to us at national level. And as we say, we have invested a lot in the economic programme, so we have been working on solutions to how to provide more oxygen to the economy, to create new jobs, at least 60 000, and that, of course, they will normally fill public cash, health, pension and so on. And I believe I firmly believe that Slovenia will be pulled out of the economic crisis by economists and not by politicians. We need to create such an environment so that economists can do this because they have an entrepreneurial passion, that is, growth. These economic problems will not be solved by trade unionists, unless they also fight for new jobs. Once again, and with that I conclude, much happiness and much success I wish you, Dr. Cerar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u121	President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, would you like to discuss this further? [[He doesn't want to.]] Then I conclude the debate. Excuse me? Is it procedural? I'm sorry, it's over. We move to a vote on the proposal by the President of the Republic for the election of the President of the Government. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 111 of the Constitution, the election of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall be a secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly on the proposal of the President. The assembly has already elected an electoral commission for the conduct of secret ballots under item 1 of the agenda. It will involve me as chairman and Deputy Secretary General Jernej Bergoč. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a vote will be delivered to the Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "against". In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the Member's will is not clear. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 111 of the Constitution, the candidate for the President of the Government will be elected if voted for by the majority of all Members and Members, that is 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members will submit the completed vote to the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members and Members of Parliament, please assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 5.40 p.m. in 10 minutes, and will last until 17.55 p.m. Members and Members who will assist me in the vote, please meet after the end of the vote in room 217. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 18.10.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u122	We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We continue with the end of the 1st item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for the election of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm publishing the outcome of the vote. The vote was held at the House of the National Assembly on 25. 8. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of 69 ballots were distributed. 69 ballots were delivered. There was an invalid voice page. There were 68 valid ballots. 57 members voted in favour. 11 members voted against. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Dr Miro Cerar was elected President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia by a majority of the votes of all Members. / applause/ I congratulate Dr. Mir Cerar and wish him success in his duties as Prime Minister of the Government. At the same time, I ask him to swear before the National Assembly in accordance with Article 113 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u123	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u124	Does the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, want to talk to the National Assembly? [[He does.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u125	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I thank you for your trust. In accordance with the sworn oath, I will do everything I can and know for the good of Slovenia. Once ministers of the future government are appointed and it will work, I want good and constructive cooperation with you. In doing so, I hope that even when we do not agree, we will maintain and cultivate a respectful relationship. Above all, I hope that we will all come together with enough strength and wisdom to justify the trust that citizens and citizens have given us in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u126	I thank the Prime Minister for his words.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u127	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let's get back to work. Allow me to inform you of the following. As Ambassador Miro Cerar was elected Prime Minister of the Government, he is no longer able to perform his parliamentary function. The President of the National Assembly will immediately inform the State Election Commission and ask it to communicate to the assembly which candidate will act as a Member in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members instead. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 3. On the day-to-day basis, this is on the basis of a proposal for a decision setting up and the tasks of the working bodies of the national assembly. The draft decree was tabled by the College of the President of the National Assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendments have been tabled to the motion for a decree, we are moving on to a decision. I am voting on the proposal for a decree on the establishment and tasks of the working bodies of the National Assembly. Please check the operation of the voting devices. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, it's on an exploratory proposal for a decision on the appointment of the Secretary-General of the State. On the basis of the second paragraph of Article 25 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the proposal for a decision for consideration and adoption of the assembly was submitted by the College of the President of the National Assembly, which proposes that the Assembly appoint Ms Ursula Zore Tavčar as Secretary-General of the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the President of the National Assembly, Dr Milan Brglez.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u128	Dear Members and honourable Members! I propose that, pursuant to Article 25 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Ursula Zore Tavčar be appointed Secretary-General of the General Assembly for the 2014–2018 term. The unsettled parliamentary work in the National Assembly shall be facilitated by professional and support services in Parliament led by the Secretary-General or the Secretary-General. Too often, support and professional services are forgotten or mentioned only when they are trying to impose political responsibility on them for the mistakes that are taking place in Parliament, rather than being properly thanked and respected for their work. It is therefore very important that a person who really masters parliamentary work is committed to him and enjoys support both between the support services and the professional services and between political parties, Members and Members of the National Assembly. Ursula Zora Tavčar is a university-graduate political scientist, the direction of international relations. In 1993, she graduated from the Faculty of Social Sciences at the University of Ljubljana. In 1994 she also passed the professional examination for work in the state administration. He speaks a few foreign languages. Following the conclusion of the study, she worked in the National Assembly at the Department for International Cooperation, where she also worked as secretary of permanent delegations of the National Assembly in international organisations in addition to the second section in the field of international relations and international cooperation of the National Assembly. During the period 2003-2004, she performed the work of the Head of the Division for International Cooperation. Following the reorganisation of the services of the National Assembly, she has been Secretary of the Committee on Foreign Policy since 2004, and in 2013 she has also taken over the management of the Department for the Preparation and Implementation of Meetings of the National Assembly and Working Bodies. In addition to her regular work, she has always participated in various project groups formed in the National Assembly. Among the major projects, it is worth mentioning that, or is a member of the project group in the National Assembly for the preparation for the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia, the European Union was a member of the European Union. She participated in the twinning project Legal Harmonisation in Montenegro and in the project group for the renovation of the web portal in the National Assembly. I am convinced that the candidate has the appropriate professional and organisational skills and appropriate experience, as she is very well aware of the procedures and work of this institution because of her long-standing professional work in the National Assembly. I am also confident that I will be able to work with her actively in the National Assembly. Her work and experience so far have convinced me that we will also be able to cooperate impartially with her with the other Members and with the political parties of this call of the National Assembly. Therefore, on my own behalf and with the agreement of the College of the President of the National Assembly, I propose that you appoint Mrs Ursula Zore Tavčar as Secretary-General of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u129	Thank the President for further explanation of the proposal. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Franc Jurša will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u130	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Once again, say hello to all your colleagues and colleagues! Members and Members of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will support the proposal to appoint Mrs Ursula Zora Tavčar as Secretary-General. Mrs Tavčar is a long-standing staff member of the National Assembly and therefore knows more than well the functioning of the National Assembly, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the service system and, above all, very well the work of the National Assembly. In the DeSUS Group, we expect to work better with Mrs Zora Tavčar than we did with the previous Secretary-General of the National Assembly, and that she will have greater hearing for all the Members and will treat everything equally. We also expect that she will have a good and professional sense of working with employees and that she will be able to create a better working atmosphere than was established in the previous mandate. As we say, Members and Members of the DeSUS Group will be supported by Mrs Zora Tavčar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u131	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Han will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u132	Mr. Vice President! Once again, honourable Members and Members! We are ahead of a decision on the new secretary-general or secretary-general of the National Assembly. As the President has already said, the College of Presidents of the National Assembly has proposed that this place be called Ursula Zora Tavčar. The accompanying text of the proposal shows that Mrs Ursula Zora Tavčar is a good candidate for the post of Secretary-General and, of course, has all the necessary competences and all the necessary knowledge. Her long-standing work in the National Assembly is a witness to the rich experiences of Mrs Ursula Zora Tavčar. Ursula Zora Tavčar was in line with challenging tasks in various fields, including the Head of the Division for International Cooperation, the Secretary of the Committee on Foreign Policy, the Head of the Section for the Preparation and Implementation of the Meetings of the National Assembly, and has also participated in various project groups and has proven itself. It is important, however, that the future secretary-general next to the President also enjoys greater confidence among all of us, between all Members and Members. In the light of her experience, I also hope that we will have a good relationship with Mrs Ursula Zora Tavčar. That is why the Social Democrats will give her unanimous support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u133	Thank you, too. Mr Luka Mesec will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u134	Dear Mr. Vice President, the House of Respect! We also find in the United Left, like the predecessor, that Ursula Zora Tavčar is a suitable candidate for the Secretary-General of the National Assembly. In the morning we also had the opportunity to get to know her alive and we will support her candidacy, of course in the spirit and in the hope of fruitful cooperation and the equal treatment of all parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u135	Thank you, too. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Our congratulations on your election as Vice-President of the National Assembly! Dear Mr President, dear colleagues and colleagues! Respectable candidate – probably following us somewhere – for the Secretary-General of the National Assembly! The New Slovenia Parliamentary Group – Christian Democrats will support the College's proposal to place Mrs Ursula Zore Tavčar as Secretary-General of the National Assembly today as the only candidate for the post of Secretary-General who has built his entire career in this house in the National Assembly, as we have heard since 1993, is 21 years. For 10 years, as we have already heard, from 2004 to 2014, in fact to this day, she was also the secretary of the Committee on Foreign Policy, and here we have also somehow met our paths, its expertise and my role as Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Policy in 2004 all the way back to 2008. During this period, in this mandate, I have had the opportunity to assess its expertise, its competences, and in fact, in this area, in the field of foreign policy or international relations, it deserves a truly clean ten. That is why it is certainly not the case that the New Slovenia Group has appointed me here to present our position to all of you and the Slovenian public. I also worked with her when I was president of the Committee on Foreign Policy from 2012 to spring 2013, and it is really useful when you run such an important committee that you have such a competent person who, with his professional views, helps with the work of the Committee or the entire National Assembly. Of course, I expect Mrs Ursula Zora Tavčar to work even more intensively in the post of Secretary-General, even more strongly than ever before, although, as we say, she deserves good grades. Of course, I also expect her to come forward in all the parliamentary groups, where we will all express our expectations about how we imagine this house to be as operational as possible, as effective as possible. And here the secretary-general has an extremely important responsibility. In view of the views expressed so far, I believe that she will receive sufficient support, so on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, I wish her much success in this extremely important mission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u137	Thank you, too. Dr László Göncz will present the position of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u138	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! My colleague Robert Battelli and I are pleased with the proposal, and Mrs Ursula Zore Tavčar has been assessed as a suitable candidate for the Secretary-General of the National Assembly, both in terms of experience and professional competence. So, our support is assured. At the same time, we hope that, according to the specificity of our Group of Members, our cooperation will be good and successful, both in terms of us and of the overall functioning of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u139	Thank you, too. Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer will present the position of the Mir Cerar Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u140	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Fellows and Fellows, Honourable Candidate for Secretary-General Ursula Zora Tavčar! In the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Mir Cerar, we unanimously support the decision of the President of the National Assembly to appoint Mrs Ursula Zora Tavčar as Secretary-General of the National Assembly. According to our assessment, the candidate has a high personal and professional attitude and, above all, is rich in long-time dedicated work in the professional services of the National Assembly. During this time, since we have been present in the National Assembly, her willingness to help us, as well as her commitment to cooperation, dialogue, has convinced us, and we have also seen her demonstrated values of tolerance, integration, openness that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia needs for smooth and successful operation. Her sincere commitment to work, managerial and organisational experience and thorough knowledge of the procedures of the National Assembly are indisputably a guarantee of her successful and effective work and at the same time a basis for our decision to support her as Secretary General of the National Assembly. We are therefore convinced that Mrs Ursula Zora Tavčar satisfies all the criteria for the proposed function and that we are giving her our support, as has already been said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u141	Thank you, too. Mr Jože Tanko will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u142	Good-bye! The Secretary-General is the most important office within the official structure of the National Assembly. In some ways, it lays down the conditions of work for Members, experts and other staff. In the past two mandates, the Presidents of the National Assembly, Mr Gantar and Mr Virant, proposed Mojco Prelesnik, who, according to several leaders of the parliamentary groups of this work, did not perform at the appropriate level for Parliament. The work was neither professional nor democratic, nor was it inadequate. In any case, it wanted to intervene in the work of the parliamentary groups, particularly the smaller and those in the opposition. The two Presidents of the National Assembly also gave protection to this way of work, which also led to the transfer of completely administrative, professional errors to the political system, to Members, to the parliamentary group and to the work of the National Assembly. Let me just mention the acquisition of computers and the incorrect recording and handling of the submitted signatures for the referendum, which triggered the whole process of interpretation against the current Minister of the Interior, Dr Vinko Gorenak. There was a lack of responsibility in the work of the secretary-general of the day. There was no satisfaction in her work. There was a lot of controversy about banal matters, including with other employees. In particular, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group was struck. The services of the National Assembly, led by the Secretary-General of the National Assembly, have a significant impact on the work of the National Assembly, on the planning of working bodies and on the National Assembly, in the application of rules of procedure, including in the preparation of substantive documents. This activity can be proactive, but work can also be disabled, blocked or hindered. Given that the key guidelines and other internal acts of the National Assembly are adopted by the Secretary-General of the National Assembly alone, through colleges or decisions of the National Assembly, it is important that the Secretary-General is an official who is capable of handling matters and not a person who is all subordinate to the entanglement. Given that the vast majority of people in the National Assembly are well-intentioned, prepared for quality work qualified for work, there should be virtually no complications in the work of the National Assembly, such as the introduction of acts or amendments, or some foolish interpretation of the rules, which was extremely common during the chairmanship of the two appointed Presidents of the National Assembly. In the parliamentary group, we were not aware of the intention of the President of the National Assembly, Dr Brglez, when he proposed it to the College. I guess the president didn't think it was worth informing our parliamentary groups. One of the leaders of the parliamentary groups of the future coalition was sworn to be aware of the proposal at the consultation, but this was not the case, since we only learned about this proposal just before the beginning of the College of the President of the National Assembly. We know candidate Ursula Zora Tavčar. We know her work so far in the National Assembly. We also look forward to its proper work and cooperation and to the early elimination of the bureaucratic obstacles adopted by its predecessor Mojca Prelešnik, with which, as I have already said, the work of the parliamentary groups, including the work of the Committees of the National Assembly and sometimes the meetings of the National Assembly, has been hampered and prevented. We expect that cooperation with professional services, experts in committees and other staff in the National Assembly will also be improved. Although we have not been involved in the preparation of the College's proposal for a meeting, we will not oppose the appointment of the candidate and we wish her a successful work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u143	Thank you, too. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate of Members on the proposal for a decision. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, get Mr. Jože Tanko ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u144	Your Honor! Since the Secretary-General or the Secretary-General is always appointed by a majority in this National Assembly, it is likely that this Secretary-General will become the Secretary-General of a certain coalition, not the entire National Assembly. I strongly hope that the new Secretary-General will, in particular, be the secretary-general of the entire National Assembly, including those parliamentary groups that have a member less than coalition. I'll back her up, and I wish her good luck with her work.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u145	Thank you. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing Mrs Ursula Zora Tavčar as Secretary-General of the National Assembly. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I congratulate the Secretary-General of the National Assembly and wish her a successful job. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to five. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. This point will be taken over by the president.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u146	We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the working bodies of the National Assembly. In accordance with the fifth indent of the sixth paragraph of Article 21 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the College of the President of the National Assembly, at its first meeting on 22 August 2014, adopted a Decision setting out the number of seats of the members of the working groups in the working bodies of the National Assembly and determining the members of the parliamentary groups belonging to them as Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the working bodies of the National Assembly. In accordance with the decision adopted, the parliamentary groups made proposals for the presidents and vice-presidents of the working bodies of the National Assembly. In the light of the proposals received, a proposal for a decision has been prepared which you have received. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, Mr Jože Tanko, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u147	Thank you so much for saying that. The Slovenian Democratic Party is a party with a long parliamentary tradition that has always been able to take responsibility for its decisions. We have been active and responsible in the legislative and executive branches of government and have been able to make the decisions necessary for the development of the country. Many of these decisions were not based on the will of the unscrupulous networks and groups that have made their impact, capital and media power even after independence. Lately, it was at least the Slovenian State Holding Act and the Bad Bank Act, where we ran into, to say the frontal system attack. Here, the parties of the then opposition, the Social Democrats and the Positive Slovenia joined forces, and the State Council, the trade unions, which in one way or another encouraged if they did not even organise a protest wave against the then Janša government. Nevertheless, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have not done pragmatically to remove the centre of power or the current political benefits. Part of the most radical representatives of the protestors, who have distinguished themselves from the stoning of policemen and the National Assembly, are now sitting in the benches of the National Assembly, which is a kind of irony. The networks have been betting on one or more dedicated project parties that have maintained their influence and power in all subsystems of society all the time after their independence. Political supremacy is crucial, as the adoption of legislation is the pressure of future and current events and developments. [[Incomprehensible]] Without being fully aware, this is the genetics of the convenient project parties in their statement at the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, said Dr. Mitja Horvat of the Mir Cerar Party, the president of the MVK, who said, quote, "it is a terrible message to the public that in the Republic of Slovenia criminal associations can establish a party, they go to the elections, they achieve a favourable result through their network, and they also carry out legislative functions by their members under the Law on Elections to the National Assembly." The parties that were established just before the elections are fully in line with this definition, whether it is the 1992 elections or any subsequent elections. This definition covers all political parties that are lit up as supernovas and have also extinguished. Let me name "Zerres," "Positive Slovenia," "Party I Believe." Customers for one project, parties for one term. The people were possessed, and no one was responsible. In this way, overnight, the Mir Cerar Party was also formed. Fate can be similar, for the Party of Peace Cerar and also for the citizens. For the last one, I'm sure. If, in doing so, they are able to close on the basis of an indictment and conviction at the time of the electoral campaign, the president of the largest parliamentary party and one serious candidate for electoral victory, Janez Janša, then these networks have done everything. Elections made under such circumstances are not legitimate. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we have decided not to take the lead in the National Assembly and working bodies, except those which are necessary or particularly important for the performance of the supervisory role, the supervisory functions of the opposition. These are petitions, human rights and equal opportunities and the Commission for the supervision of public finances and the Commission for the supervision of security intelligence services, with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly already stipulating that the majority and leadership of the opposition should be in the two Commissions. The Slovenian Democratic Party, however, is the largest opposition party. And we will also carry out this task consistently in this mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u148	On the basis of Article 75, paragraph 2, which speaks of the speaker being allowed to speak only about the issue on the agenda, I find that the first four minutes have been completely out of this agenda. More of an introduction to something, but that's not what we're deciding now, so please don't let it happen in the future. The text is given by the United Left Group, Mr Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u149	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the United Left coalition, we have already said at the opening session of the National Assembly that the first step towards resolving the crisis in which Slovenia has entered is to restore confidence, and first of all it is necessary to restore confidence in the policy that decides on everyday life. Instead of being an example of a harsh, respectful dialogue of arguments, this house has often been a source of intolerance and disrespect for the rule of law. This is borne out by a multitude of unfulfilled decisions of the Constitutional Court. Since we have taken this seriously in the United Left, we have also resigned ourselves to the Vice-President of the Commission for Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities and we oppose the Presidency of the Slovenian Democratic Party. We are convinced that this commission cannot be led by a party that has for decades been acting contrary to the requirements of the rule of law, contrary to the requirements of Slovenia's signed international human rights instruments and, last but not least, by ethical standards of protection of individual dignity. The first argument for this claim can be found every day on the road before a court where party supporters manifest their attitude towards the rule of law. But this is not a demonstration of individuals who are not denied the right to say on the road what they think about any part of the government, but a parliamentary party that encourages these brutal attacks on the rule of law. Last but not least, her president took advantage of an exit from prison to support disagreement with the rule of law. During the two decades of this political party's operation, they could list a host of attacks against different minorities, from Roma, same-sex, single women and so on. But let us stop at only one – the attitude towards deleted, one of the biggest and most massive human rights violations in Slovenia. If we could, on condition, accept the view that the deletion itself was a mistake, we cannot accept two decades of this party's action against correcting this error. Let us recall the deplorable attitude towards two and not just one decision of the Constitutional Court, which demanded the correction of the injustices to the deleted. Let us remember the Ombudsman’s annual warning of human rights and be represented by any person. Let us recall the repeated warnings of the Commissioner for Human Rights at the Council of Europe or the Commission against Racism and Intolerance at the Council of Europe and many other warnings, both Slovenian and international. And instead of trying these warnings and the hardships of thousands of people, they objected in all manner, both by means of unlawful means and by means of insults, and by a call for a referendum as well as by a proposal for a constitutional law to be passed by the Constitutional Court. Only the European Court of Human Rights finally said what almost two decades did not want to understand. There are still many arguments against the Presidency of the Slovenian Democratic Party for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities. Finally, doubts as to the legitimacy of the elections also suggest an incomprehensible attitude towards the rule of law. But acting against the rule of law and human rights in relation to the deleted is enough for me. That is why, in the United Left, we have decided to reject the Presidential post offered to the Commission for Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities to be chaired by the Member of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u150	I regret to point out once again, under Rule 75(2) of the Rules of Procedure, that in this presentation of the opinion of the Group of Members it did not correspond to the question on the agenda – part which dealt explicitly with one specific party. That part about why you're quitting or why you didn't choose the vice-presidential post was fine. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate of Members. The word is from Dr. Franz Trček, United Left, prepare Miha Kordiš, United Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u151	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Unfortunately, I, too, will have to break the rules of procedure in the first place. I've been listening here since I was elected to throw granite cubes. I was chosen here for something other than the Big Brother show – please log in on POP TV for this. Mr. Tanko, I don't want to ad to the staff, but this time I have to. First of all, I didn't throw granite cubes because I didn't really throw them. Second of all, I didn't throw them. We talked about regional differences in Slovenia. You could be taught by Mr. Master of American Studies and Geologist Mr. Grims that there are tonalite cubes in Maribor. And they're called a little different. That's where I'd end this debate. It is true, however, that Mr Grimes flew into Maribor by helicopter, saying that it was an instruction "Fire!" And that you destroyed 27 young lives [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u152	Please, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u153	It's over. Now, please, I'm going to go back to what I was thinking about, what I'm an expert on and what's attached to the agenda. I was going to talk about infrastructure, but since I'm a Belokranjec living in Maribor, I read the Evening in the morning. Of course, I don't like how to privatize the evening, because it's not clear where that million will fly from. But I'm glad someone from the Mir Cerar Party is reading my facebook, and from the first to the third draft of the coalition contract, they've been copying me pretty well. I'm not gonna ask for copyright because I'm for copyright in these cases. While we are here in parliament, while the SDS gentlemen are gagging, someone died at the clinical centre. We probably know who died. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u154	Subject matter [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u155	And now I'm going back to the debate, Milan, I apologize. We're talking about committees. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u156	Please respect the function, not the name.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u157	We are also learning parliamentaryism. [[...]] The majority of citizens who watch this somehow do not know that the parent working bodies are very important bodies in the functioning of the National Assembly. Is that right? Yes, it is. I like numbers. I went to do some recalculation. I also proposed to the mandate-holder, based on two facts, the first issue: health. If I go look at the supervisor, what do we find? During the six years of health procurement, nine companies received €5.6 billion. Second point: infrastructure. When we say infrastructure in Slovenia, we usually say opacity, kleptocracy, corruption. I could have counted it for three hours. I have now proposed to the government's mandate to take over the opposition by these two committees. Not necessarily me not to sound so egotripic, but it didn't happen. And if we go to recalculate these shares, the opposition of the Presidency has only four committees, a coalition in nine – if they don't get in the middle of what someone obviously wants them to do, I don't, although perhaps the share interest of the United Left could be the same – of which six are Mira Cerar and three others. Fortunately, I can comfort my colleague Tonin here, who is absent, that the representation of women is slightly greater and better. I will, with all my expertise, and my colleagues will, including a colleague you asked for a minister, refuse to do so, contribute to the work of the committees in which I will work, including with my acquaintances and friends from abroad. Like, in Finance, I hear we're a disaster for Slovenia. My trifle – you know, I do not think this National Assembly is insanely complex – as a scientific coordinator I led the project for 30 million, the largest transport project within the so-called CIVITAS Grand-scale call with 39 partners from 7 countries. But my acquaintances and friends who will help us, including from abroad, will not be as friends and acquaintances as Mrs. Bratusek's friends, who told her to sell Pučnik's airport within four days. I'd end up here. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u158	General notice. In cases where the matter goes completely past the agenda, I will also be forced to give warnings, but this is a notice of advance. Please, let's stick to the agenda. And the agenda item is the appointment of the presidents and vice-presidents of the working bodies. Mr Miha Kordish has the floor to prepare Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u159	Thank you so much for saying that. I will try to stick to the points a little bit more, although I would like to fill them much more with content, rather than the point that is the debate on some faces, which should occupy some functions, otherwise it foresees. When we talk about the holders of some political functions, we do not talk about their personality characteristics, but we talk about some of the positions that these institutions advocate. On this basis, we have received some better, some worse, and some unacceptable suggestions. This attitude deserves some explanation. Since this area is quite home to me, I will stop in the event of higher education and the question of research. This committee is led by the proposed people, who are supposed to be led by the policy advocates who brought the reformed Higher Education Act to the table this spring. This law was forced back into the drawer by self-organised students led by the student movement Iskra, and at the side of the process they became unionized university workers. The anger of the workers and students was still justified. This law has opened the door wide to tuition, and by placing the workload and rights of employees in the hands of the university management, it has further deepened the university's internal classroom to a largely young academic pre-delegation on the one hand and to some Czech privileged tenants on the other. The same logic, which led angry students and professors to the streets this spring, also controls the current draft of the coalition contract, is indeed a much more popular language. This draft, which has also been supported by the proposed management of the committee concerned, with the support of the mandate-holder. Ambition, by subjugation of the university of market mechanics and the economy, is slyly embedded in the proposal for a coalition contract, but quite sensitive. And given how much we have listened to each other about the economy today, and the economy is very little on average and so on, this problem is halted. As the whole society, like comrades and comrades of the United Left Group, has been warned several times today, the economy is not a single non-problem entity, either. The economy is also hampered by class conflict. On the one hand, we have those who, with their physical or mental work, create all the value — workers and workers. On the other hand, there are those who adopt or manage this value — owners, managers, capitalists. Therefore, unless a capitalist economy working for the sake of a handful replaces coordinated production of goods for the needs but not for the majority of the population, by then the integration of universities and economies means only strengthening the ideological, economic and indirect political power of the ruling classes. Research, higher education, or the interest of the vast majority of working people need no more pliers, cuts, and blows after what the working crowds have chosen in the past centuries. People need pliers, cuts and strikes on policies that want to take this away from them even when we reach the area of higher education and research. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u160	That was on the edge. I am concluding the debate independently. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing the presidents and vice-presidents of the working bodies of the National Assembly. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 60 votes against 5. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against the 5.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the election of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u161	We'd have a procedural. Article 74 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 74 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Group of Members of the Party of Mir Cerar proposes to postpone consideration of this item until the decision of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, whether or not to terminate or terminate the delegation of the mandate of Janez Janša, which is also proposed as a member of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u162	Would the representatives of the parliamentary groups like to speak on this proposal? Please, New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u163	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am one of those members who have been on this committee for the supervision of security and intelligence services in the previous term. It seems very important to me that parliamentary oversight of security and intelligence services exists. If you postpone this point today, this means that Parliament has not yet set up a commission to oversee and watch intelligence services. If you do not like a candidate on this committee, then you have the opportunity to oppose this decision and reject it, which means that a new, different decision, a different composition will have to be proposed very soon. And to wait for how the Mandate-Election Commission will decide on the mandate of Mr Janša, it is indeed the greatest nonsense because the work of this Commission must continue, and Mr Janša has a mandate so far, no one has taken it away from him. I ask you and suggest that this Parliament, however, establish a commission to oversee security and intelligence services in Parliament. I think that you are playing with an important thing and that because of the impression that one Member is not worthy of abandoning parliamentary control. That is why our parliamentary group will vote against your procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u164	Mr Tanko has the floor as a representative of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u165	Thank you so much for saying that. At the constitutional session of the National Assembly, we have pointed out that this mandate begins with a heavy burden. Only the establishment of the Mandate-Election Commission was a kind of problem, inconsistent with the law and inconsistent with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Now this farce continues. I do not know or know in parliamentary history that the largest party in the coalition would oppose parliamentary control of secret or security intelligence services. Parliamentary oversight is one of the key tasks the opposition has and must operate in a normal democratic country. It is not possible for anyone on the basis of anything to argue the non-establishment of this commission by making it appear to him that it is not what it should be. If I may recall, both the President of the National Assembly and the current mandate-holder, Mr Cerar, said that before the Commission's term of office even opened the procedure for determining or withdrawing Janez Janša's mandate, you would respect the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. At the next meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, you forgot this commitment, ate it up, and this is the most visible representative of the party in the political hierarchy of the Republic of Slovenia – the President of the National Assembly, second in rank, mandate-holder, if the President of the Government is third in rank. And on the basis of insinuations, hints or anything in this way is impossible to make a decision to postpone the matter. The supervision of intelligence services must be permanent, must be permanent and must be consistent. And the National Assembly must also ensure this oversight. Otherwise, if there has been any dispute with regard to the application and the acquisition of the mandate of Mr Janez Janša, then the State Election Commission, which is the only body in this country that considers it, should do something, or those who felt that something was wrong with this procedure. None of you, any political party, has launched anything before the State Election Commission, not when applying for a candidacy, not when the results have been found. So, as long as we all have confirmed mandates in the National Assembly, I propose that we reject this decision and that we allow the working bodies of the National Assembly to work as envisaged by the rules, law and Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We'll do it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u166	Representative of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Of course, I am pleased with this proposal and we will also support it, and it is not true what my colleague Tonin says that we will not vote today. We'll just hang up, and we're fine with it. However, there is an urgent need for one thought, and this thought, Comrade Tanka, remember in the previous term when you had a president and a member on this same committee, put pressure on you, and today you forgot to say one thing. It is true that it is very important that Parliament has control over intelligence services, which is one of the most important tasks. But you forgot to add: above the police and everyone else. Now you have to explain to me how someone who is in prison and who is undergoing premonitional procedures can control what the police or what the listeners are and watch their own earpieces. I don't know if they exist, but they just don't work together. And that's what I'm talking about, about sensefulness, and that would be the same if I were in the same position, with only one difference – I would go out of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u168	Does any other representative of the delegation want a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u169	I would have another procedural proposal on behalf of the Group of Members. However, this vote on the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission today is intended to establish parliamentary oversight of intelligence and security services. However, if Mr Janša is deprived of his mandate, his office in this committee will cease and expire. And that's why I really don't see any problem with setting up this commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-25-SDZ7-Izredna-01.ana.u170	Does Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer want to further explain the proposal to postpone the point? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We decide on the proposal to postpone the hearing and decision on the proposal for a decision on the election of the President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for the supervision of the intelligence and security services to one of the next meetings of the assembly. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 55 votes against 28. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against 28.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. Therefore, the National Assembly will hold consideration and decision-making of the proposal for a decision at one of the next meetings of the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 1st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly.
