ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 70th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Barbara Žgajner, Mrs. Maria Plevčak, Mrs. Mateja Pučnik, mag. Jana Jenko, Mrs Renata Brunskole by 5 p.m., Mrs Aleksandra Osterman, mag. Leila Hercegovac, mag. Melita Župevc, Mrs Maja Dimitrovski, Mrs Janja Navast, Mrs Ludmila Novak, Mr Franz Puksic, Mr Samo Bevk from 16:00 on, mag. Matthew Tonin, Dr. Vinko Gorenak from 3:30 p.m., Mr. Matjaz Han from 1:00 p.m. on. I also invited government representatives to the meeting. Greetings to all present! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 70th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday 13 June 2014, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. In accordance with the agreement of the 102nd meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly 13. 6. 2014 I propose to the National Assembly that the agenda of the 70th Extraordinary Meeting should be extended by consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Sector Wage System, urgent procedure, EPA 2049-VI. You received a letter with an extension proposal of 19. 6. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The representative of the Government as a candidate is not currently in the Chamber, so I ask if he wants the word mag. Ivan Vogrin as a proposal for a bill? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u2	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Strangely, nothing is sacred in this country anymore. The Constitutional Court found that the solution was unconstitutional. Within two years, we failed to prepare a constitutional solution. On the proposal of those who are affected by the law because of this unconstitutional situation, I have prepared a proposal for a law and put it into the procedure in the National Assembly. And what happens? It's already been rejected on the board. That's what we're saying. We're legislating an unconstitutional state. One of the panel’s panellists even had reason to believe that constitutional judges who were not members of the military union could not decide on such matters. However, I would expect, in the first place, that the National Assembly and the Government implement the decisions of the Constitutional Court, to enforce. Because otherwise, if we don't do it, what do we show our citizens, what do we say? What's the message? You don't have to stick to anything, no law, no decision. Nothing has to be respected unless we, as the National Assembly, have implemented a decision, a decision of the Constitutional Court, and the Constitutional Court has given the National Assembly and the Government a transitional period of two years. We haven't been able in two years, which suggests that this is another proof of my claim that this country doesn't work. And I hope it starts to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u3	Thank you, too. Would the representatives of the parliamentary groups like to speak on the proposal to expand the agenda? I note that no, so I am concluding the debate on the proposal for enlargement. We're moving on to decision-making. Please check the operation of the voting devices before we decide. Everything all right? So, we are voting on the enlargement of the agenda, namely the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Public Sector Wage System Act, the urgent procedure, EPA 2049-VI, will be included on the agenda if enlargement is adopted. We're voting. I'm calling off the vote. Can we re-vote, have everyone re-checked? So we are voting again on the enlargement of the agenda. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 1. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. I inform you that the National Assembly will consider the electoral enlargement to be A1. the agenda item. We are moving to a full vote on the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference and adopted by enlargement. Can we make a decision? Excuse me? Lucky Meh, would you like it? Explanation of voice – not at this stage. Once we start the session, you can be at individual points. So we are voting on the agenda in full and with the enlargement adopted. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 64 votes against 1. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the agenda of the 70th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. Before we go over - just a moment, please, attention. Before we move on to the 8th item of the agenda, I would like to remind you that if you leave today before 22 p.m., you will take all your belongings to tomorrow's closed session with you from the hall. Thank you for your attention. We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, this is on the eve of a bill on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the United States of America on the improvement of compliance with the tax rulings on the international level and the implementation of the Fat Man. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law dealt with the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported to the National Assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the National Assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, this is on the eve of a bill amending the law on the ratification of the European Charter on Regional or Minority Languages. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law dealt with the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported to the National Assembly in writing. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group. I give the word to Dr. Lászl Gönch.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In our parliamentary group, we are surprised to hear the amendment of the Law on the Ratification of the European Charter on Regional or Minority Languages because no one has consulted with the organisations of the national communities or our parliamentary group on the amendment before the adoption of the proposal by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me recall that the Law on Self-Governmental National Communities clearly stipulates that the Government or the proposer of the amendment of the law is still obliged to consult representatives of the national communities in the course of drafting the text of the proposal when it comes to the content directly relating to their rights. In a specific case, it is specifically about the content that falls within this framework. That is why, in particular because of the warning of procedural inconsistencies, my colleague Battelli and I will abstain from voting. However, this lack of consistency of the proposer is only one procedural reason for our retained position. Secondly, an essential substantive question is whether the transfer of competences from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Office of Nationality, as set out in this proposal, is an appropriate way to address such a difficult task. I take it that the Republic of Slovenia ratified the European Charter on Regional or Minority Languages in 2000. In Article 3 of the Law on Ratification, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has set up the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the purpose of implementing that instrument. Following the subsequent information provided by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to our Group, the problem so far was that the Ministry did not seem to have the necessary national powers to implement the European Charter. In their view, this was also clearly confirmed by the four rounds of review of the implementation of the provisions adopted in the dialogue process with the Council of Europe Committee of Experts. They also point out that the Ministry does not have leverage to implement the recommendations of the Committee of the European Charter on Regional and Minority Languages to improve implementation received by the Council of Europe Committee of Experts, which is why the recommendations that the Republic of Slovenia has not implemented in the light of the above are largely repeated throughout the cycle. This is supposed to be the most important reason for the proposed amendment of the law on ratification. As we have been subsequently informed, representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have consulted the Nationality Office, which has competence to monitor the implementation of the legal and constitutional provisions on the protection of national communities, the preparation of proposals and initiatives to the Government and other national authorities and the preparation of analyses and reports covering broader issues of protection of national communities. They believe that the Nationality Office would be a more appropriate implementing body for this task. This should follow the model established in the framework of the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Minorities and National Communities, where the Office of Nationality is listed as the bearer authority involved with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In the current term of office, it has been achieved that the Nationality Office acts as a single body within the Cabinet of the President of the Government. From this point of view, a proposal to amend the law can also be adopted positively, but we must be aware, at the same time, that there is a large gap in practice in the field of implementation, although there is a good example of regulated rights of national communities. This is particularly pointed out by the Committee of Experts of the Council of Europe. The question therefore arises whether the Office actually has the necessary human resources capabilities to carry out such an important task. Although the applicants claim that the proposal for a law amending the law on the ratification of this document is entirely technical in nature, we are very reserved in the national community. We do not understand in any way the urgency of approaching such changes at the last moment of the mandate. Nevertheless, we hope that our reservations will prove unfounded. In fact, we also wish to do so, but we note the procedural inconsistencies and possible substantive problems due to the proposed change. So once again, as a sign of our restraint, we will abstain in this vote with Mr Battelli. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u5	Thank you, too. This concludes with the presentation of the Group's position. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS THE FIRST DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A PHYSICAL RULES LAW The draft law was tabled by a group of 26 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 26 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposers of the proposal of the Magi Act. To Andre Shirtzle.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! Unfortunately, I cannot welcome the representatives of the Government, because it appears that the government of Alenka Bratušek does not find this point important enough to send its ministers or state secretaries to this meeting. Of course I regret that. I regret that this government and this coalition have put the country in an unconstitutional position. Article 148 of the Constitution provides that revenue and expenditure must be included in the budgets, provides that they must be balanced without indebtedness or that revenue may exceed expenditure. This Article of the Constitution was adopted in this National Assembly on 24 May of the previous year, and the Constitution also provides that the Fiscal Rule Act must be adopted by 24. 11. But the coalition didn't do it, it didn't do the homework. This is why, for the first time, Slovenia is in an unconstitutional situation, secondly, in a much worse economic and financial situation, and, thirdly, it is also in breach of the international commitments it has made. This means, of course, that the current coalition is primarily irresponsible to the rule of law in the country, to the constitutional order in the country, and that it has actually contributed primarily to the unconstitutional state as long as possible. In view of the fact that the Slovenian Democratic Party, and also some other opposition parties, had also consistently pointed to the constitutional action, pointed out this manna, the presidents of the political parties set up a working group to prepare the law a few months ago. The working group met six times and prepared the law, but it seems that the law did not go forward in the government procedure, did not go forward in the government procedure and therefore was not brought into the procedure of the National Assembly, for adoption. Why Social Democrats, why DeSUS, why the National Gazette, why Positive Slovenia and the rest of the undeclared do not want to have a constitutional state in the country, is, of course, another issue. This, of course, is a question of when someone seems to want to have chaos in the country and when he wants certain institutions to fail. Of course, this also means that our economic and financial situation is so much worse. At that time only the government of Alenka Bratušek owed 11.9 billion. In addition, in the first five months, it spent more than it should, namely, 700 million more expenditure, which is, of course, disproportionate to the whole year, because of, of course, consumption, and this incorrect consumption, continues. She was in debt at an interest rate higher than 5 %. Interest rates have now fallen, but the government has €4.7 billion in the account, for which it pays 5%. They're paid by future generations! Why did she do that?Oh, my God! Why did she do so without adopting a fiscal rule law, and of course the interest rates would certainly be lower during that period? I'm not talking about the period today. This is harmful for the country and, of course, harmful for citizens and citizens. As a result, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have decided that the law that has been dealt with in the framework of the working group, which, as I can personally say, has to some extent been harmonised, we are putting into consideration, in the adoption of the National Assembly, of course, in order to protect the economic, financial and thus the state interests of the State of Slovenia. This will increase the independence of the State and, of course, increase the independence of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u7	Thank you. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I could also give the floor to the representatives of the Government, but they are not currently in the Chamber, but we are, of course, trying to ensure their presence in the discussion of this item on the agenda. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups. Mr Jožef Kavticnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u8	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group, Positive Slovenia we agree that public spending should be rationalised and the budget of the state sector balanced and public debt reduced gradually, but we believe that only a fiscal rule will not bring Slovenia out of the crisis. For Positive Slovenia, the fiscal rule is acceptable only under the condition of the precise definition of Slovenia's development programme. Since Article 148 of the Constitution has already been amended by the National Assembly, the adoption of the implementing law is essential, and the question remains open, how it will be and how restrictively it will be written. The amendment to Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia meant a signal to the international markets that we are serious about our strategy, development and savings. We do not want the start of the implementation of the fiscal rule to require measures to reduce the deficit, which would be too drastic to prevent the economic break-up of Slovenia. We also believe that the drafting of the implementing law is within the power of the Government, and we regret that the Government has not yet been able to carry out these tasks. The time-table chosen by the SDS Parliamentary Group for the introduction of the law is just before the elections, which is extremely unfortunate. In addition to the adoption of the Fiscal Rule Act, it will be necessary to amend and supplement the Public Finance Act, which will specify the fiscal framework. Pension and health reform and reform of the entire social security system will be required. These are reforms that will ensure the long-term sustainability of public finances. The opinion of Members and Members of Positive Slovenia is that this task must be left to the future government. It is therefore appropriate to include the fiscal rule law in this package. In Positive Slovenia, we believe that the key to a better future is not over-saving and tightening the belt. In doing so, we think of the country as well as our citizens and citizens. The key to a better future and consolidation of public finances is to restore the trust of the social partners, the professional public and citizens. The key is the establishment of competent and responsible management bodies of companies, in particular those which are predominantly state-owned. Successful management of state assets will ensure that the country, as its owner, has appropriate relations to support development activities. Slovenia's economic breakthrough requires the launching of large infrastructure projects – we have already warned in Positive Slovenia many times – which will bring the necessary jobs into the wider construction sector, at the same time strengthen Slovenia's territorial strategic position and ensure more coherent regional development. This is what we keep reminding in Positive Slovenia. We have all of this in Positive Slovenia, not least in the programme with which we won the elections in 2011, and we do not deviate from these goals.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr Matevž Frangež will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u10	Respected and respected! Initially, I would like to point out that the proposal for a fiscal rule law, as proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Parties, will not be supported. It is not true that this law, with its solutions, is the product of coordination between political forces. Let me remind you that the Social Democrats in writing the fiscal rule into the constitution in our parliamentary group have strongly opposed it. Nevertheless, we have taken a constructive approach to the work of the working group with an ambition to define, in as smart a way as possible, the medium-term balance of public finances. Important changes are taking place in the European space today. We suggest that Slovenia does not lead with solutions that will bind our chances of smartly accelerating economic growth and increasing employment. The proposal for this law is precisely that – the limitation of Slovenia's ability to achieve what Social Democrats see as our key objective – and this is to increase employment through the promotion of economic growth. Let me mention some of the signals and important emphasis these days on our European and international environment. First, Mr Reza Moghadam, Head of the European Department of the International Monetary Fund, said these days: "A consistent reduction in budget deficits reduces the efficiency of public investment and works pro-cyclically, which all prolongs the impact of the recession." It is written that, in fact, we tend to focus more on the sharpness of the enforcement of public financial brakes, thus reducing the chances of recovery. Our fellow socialists in the European Parliament just yesterday, the European Commission's candidate Jean-Claude Juncker, made it clear to him that he has our support if the European Union and the European Commission have loosened their commitments in accordance with strict public financial rules. This does not mean that socialists and social-democrats across Europe are not prepared to respect the signed fiscal pact, but that we intend to act in an anti-cyclical manner when implementing the provisions of the fiscal pact, in order to accelerate economic growth and increase employment. German Federal Minister of Economy and Vice Chancellor Sigmar Gabriel also said these days that no one wanted a greater debt. However, the deficits, the high deficits of countries can only be reduced if we return to the path of economic growth. Respected and respected! Slovenia has made sure that economic growth in Slovenia is strengthened due to painful decisions. Not only do we now find that official statistics record growth and that in Slovenia, in some sectors, growth is actually very good within some sectors. Moreover, in the last six months we have witnessed an active reduction in the number of unemployed. As early as December last year it was in Slovenia, and this was an absolute record, 129 thousand, almost 130 thousand unemployed. Today, six months later, we're at 118 thousand unemployed. And this is not only a result of the reduction of persons enrolled in unemployment accounts, but also a result of the increase in employment. It is particularly encouraging to note that we have succeeded through enhanced economic growth on the one hand and on the other hand through targeted measures to increase youth employment – forgive me for quoting this information from my head and perhaps for a few hundred different – in this time increasing youth employment by 7,000 cities. In the last six months, 7,000 young people have been given their chance to get a job. Respected and respected! Despite the fact that in this House between the two political collapses, there is a great deal of mutual responsibility among the various political parties that Slovenia has come into this situation at all today, it is important to stress that, irrespective of the different roles and different levels of responsibility and the guilt for past actions today, it is crucial that Slovenia's policy of existing and new political forces commit itself to continuing the path of economic growth, to accelerate economic growth and to refrain from all those actions that could in this situation prevent further economic recovery. This is crucial, and we are all responsible. And the first step we can take is not to commit ourselves to a smart solution, not only to our public financial problems, but also to the question of restructuring the economy and increasing employment. It would therefore be good for all of us today to reject the proposed law together. In our debates, there is one fundamental difference: what we see as an economy. Some say that the only important thing for the economy and for economic growth is that we have as low taxes as possible and as few administrative barriers as possible. This logic is wrong in our profound belief. It is wrong because we understand society as a whole and understand that we have different social subsystems set up at the current level also to strengthen the economy. We do not have the public sector ourselves, but we have it to give this public sector a quality input of quality staff, social security, a stable state and order of the economy, because only in such circumstances can a good economy work well. We do not have a social security system in this country because it is dedicated to itself, but to help those people who cannot survive alone on the market or those who fail in their path who are in distress. This is a very important idea leap. We need to understand that people can get their advantage to realize their ideas only if they have solid ground under their feet, a field of security, something from which they can actually move away. We don't have states and state administrations because it's dedicated to itself. We have it to create a regulated economic environment, to successfully position Slovenia on the world map, increases the country's visibility as an attractive economic location. These are the objectives on which to focus. However, the social democrats of this public sector and state administration do not just defend it. We know that they can be improved. We know that it is possible to increase the efficiency of large aggregates of public money spending and that every euro of public money we devote to public spending needs to be reversed twice in order to make every euro of the money invested the greatest profit in the public-defined objectives. Respected and respected! The proposed fiscal rule in the SDS law is stricter than the commitments we have signed as a country with the signing of a fiscal compact. Social Democrats are committed to respect the constitutional norm, and this is to make sure that Slovenia balances its public finances wisely in the medium term. But let us do this in a way that will increase the possibilities of our economy, which will increase employment opportunities, because this is the only way to end up managing public finances. Let's not make public finances the first one we think of at a time when we have to face a crisis. Let us first think about how we will increase the chances of increasing public finances through increased economic growth. We therefore call on the whole of Slovenia's political space and this Parliament to reject this proposal, and further focus on measures that will benefit Slovenia, extend its opportunities and not limit these options. Respected and respected! The Social Democrats will reject the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Alliance of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u12	Your Honor! Today we will discuss fiscal rules for a long time. The fiscal rule that we wrote down in the Constitution at the end of May 2013. However, in the text of the constitutional law, we wrote that the implementing law should be adopted within six months and that the fiscal rule should be applied for the first time in the preparation of the 2015 budget. So we cannot deny that we are late with the implementing law itself, but we can say that the principle of fiscal rule was followed when the 2015 budget was adopted, as you know, when we adopted it on 15 November 2013. At the time of the budget, the Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2014 and 2015 was also adopted, which also provided for the appropriate consumption of municipalities and which has also received major criticism from today's proponents. Let's see what the fiscal rule is. Today we'll probably hear about the golden fiscal rule. What's the difference? Fiscal rule or gold fiscal rule? There was a lot of talk about it. Of course, the difference is between one and the other. The Golden Rule limits the responsibility for current needs and, in principle, allows for debt for investment purposes, while only the fiscal rule provides for balanced revenue and budget expenditure without debt. And we're talking about the fiscal rule, not the golden fiscal rule. We are talking about the need to balance income and expenditure, not just the state budget, but also the pension and health budgets. The budgets of the municipalities must also be balanced and the amount of the debt also includes the debt to the obligations of today's SDH or former Soda, Kad and, of course, Dars and DUTB. So, speaking of the fact that only the state budget is the one concerned by the fiscal rule is incorrect and incorrect. With only the implementation of the fiscal rule, the adoption of the implementing law will cover all areas of the country where the country or local community is also the dominant owner. Why are we stressing this only fact? In the Alliance of Alenka Bratusek, we do not oppose the fiscal rule itself. Moreover, we believe that fiscal rule is one of the key building blocks of stable and balanced public finances. This is not the last thing we've written into our program. Respected, as the preceding reference puts it, the decision to be a fiscal rule is not something to be taken so easily. It will be swallowed up in all times of social life, so we are assuming that such an implementing law is adopted by a two-thirds majority in Parliament. It is also desirable to reach as broad a consensus as possible on its personality and content as possible with other stakeholders. However, you can say that, honourable applicants, that you have achieved, you have reached agreement, and if I limit myself to Parliament that you have reached the required two-thirds consensus. The Minister of Finance has called and referred to coordination on the subject of fiscal rules. We have been invited to represent all parliamentary parties, and all parliamentary parties have participated in the coordination. And what was the capture of the coordination itself? The latest information is that there are still open points. Let's start with the fiscal world. The Fiscal Council, which, in our view, is a key supervisory independent body which, according to the interpretation of one, is expected to have more operational powers in relation to the performance itself or the cessation of exceptional circumstances. According to other interpretations of these powers, I should practically not have at all. According to one explanation, the fiscal council should be appointed by a two-thirds majority and, secondly, it should not be regulated within the fiscal rule law. The European Union, just to remind itself, expects and demands that the Fiscal Council be able to deliver independent assessments and opinions on public financial policy. However, the Government should respect such assessments and opinions. Unfortunately, today’s proponents do not really agree with such a request. The question remained also open regarding the determination of exceptional circumstances, the criteria for exceptional circumstances, the extent of possible deviations from the fiscal rule and the determination of the required majority, which would be able to decide on the possible extent of deviations from the fiscal rule. A very important question is what the political consequences should be in the case of deviations from the fiscal rule – well, this is also an issue that I think is still open. Can we vote on the government's confidence or is the constitutional charge in the event of failure to implement the fiscal rule the real sanction? Or is the decision of the presidents of the parties sufficient and to leave to the presidents only the parties to decide how to proceed in the event that the government does not comply with the fiscal rule? Can the government even be responsible for, for example, non-compliance with the rule at local community level? What about the independence of the local community? Next. Somewhere in the proposal for a fiscal rule law that we are considering today, I have also read that the fiscal rule must already be in full force for the 2015 budget. Really? Is that true? The Constitutional Law already states so, but has not the European Union, due to difficult macroeconomic circumstances, set a deadline for achieving the structural balance of the country's budgets? If I am not mistaken, I believe not, this deadline is set for us by the end of 2017. So, misleading on such an important issue as the fiscal rule is by no means in place. I even believe it's harmful, and I also believe that you're not burdened with it. Just a little deceiving here, a little bit there – all to achieve one and a simple goal. I've counted the points that have been left unsettled. They're supposed to be coordinated by the party presidents, and, as I know, they're not. Today, after six hours of discussion, I believe that we will be able to reconcile the essential elements of the implementing law. I'm not sure, so I allow it, of course everything is possible, but I don't believe it's after these first statements or presentations that this would really happen. In the Alliance Group of Alenka Bratušek, we believe that, for all the reasons mentioned above, the issue of the implementing law on fiscal rules is such a difficult subject that it is only right that a decision on this should be taken by a new call from the National Assembly. It is our view that such important issues, which cover virtually all times of life, must be harmonised and adopted by the Government, which has full powers, and confirmed by the National Assembly, which is not in pre-election and during electoral hysteria and noria. Misleading the applicants on the necessity of adopting this law today, as regards the necessity for structural balance of the 2015 budget, as well as the required profitability for Slovenian bonds, which are supposed to be higher-level frauds due to the lack of law. [[...]] None of this is true, of course. The European Union has set a deadline for us until the end of 2017. The required yields keep falling and go up to 3%. However, public debt increased in 2013 due to the rehabilitation of the banking system and slightly increased due to corporate deleveraging. And these are the facts themselves. Therefore, Slovenia's public debt has increased since 2008. If we consider 2013 which was truly one-off in terms of the magnitude of the increase, it increased between the end of 2008 and the end of 2012 by a good 30% of the gross social product, which means that around 8 points of GDP per year are on average throughout the years. During this period, there have been different governments in power, which means that we need to talk about public financial trends without a single action. If we elaborate a slightly more detailed debt reduction strategy and separate it into one-off measures on the one hand and into more lasting debt reduction measures on the other, we can see that both types of measures are described and mapped out by the adoption of a stability programme. The rehabilitation of the banking sector has cost Slovenia about 15% of the gross social product, what has already been done and what is yet to be completed this year. As mentioned above, the rest of the action in the banking sector is foreseen in the stability programme this year because last year, due to the procedures that have been carried out for longer than previously planned, we have not been able to complete. Without further action in the banking sector, the government is planning a government deficit of 3,2 % of GDP in the stability programme. This is exactly the same as planned in last year's stability programme and is fully consistent with the planned gradual fiscal consolidation. We are under an obligation to reduce the deficit of the country's wider sector below 3% of GDP by 2015. However, our public financial strategy is fully in line with the expectations of the European Union, the EU's requirements and our commitments to the EU. Yes, the fiscal rule law should have been passed, but it hasn't been adopted yet. Notwithstanding the fact that this law is not yet in place, public financial policy, as well as the results of the stability programme, is geared towards gradual fiscal consolidation. The government is committed to the gradual fiscal consolidation and is also implementing it through the budgets adopted for 2014 and 2015. This concern, therefore, that public finances will disintegrate without the adoption of this law, is exaggerated and reintroduced only by fraud. We will not support the Alliance's Group, Alenka Bratušek, for all the reasons and deceptions of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u13	Thank you, too. Mr Marko Pavlisič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! The country's objective in the previous elections was to bring it to the track of reasonable public consumption. We needed two coalitions to do that. Minister Janez Šušteršič successfully convinced the then coalition partners, but the opposition unfortunately did not. That's what we did in the new coalition. Unfortunately, those coalition partners changed their minds. This is how we wrote the golden fiscal rule into the constitution, and now it is time for the next step — the implementing law. "The Golden Rule is crucial for preventing economic policy actions that would attempt to replace structural changes in public finances by a policy that captures voters' votes and typically does not exceed 4 years," said Mag. I'd love a Pezdir. If we look back in recent crisis years, we can see that the policy manual does not exceed or reach 4 years. The policy of the last few years has reached a maximum of several months. "It is significantly easier to borrow debts than to seek consensus with the social partners and to change the foundations of the economic structure. Last but not least, it means respect for the golden rule of coercion to manage public finances rationally. In other words: instead of hiring debts to fill holes in, say, the Institute of Health Insurance, economic policy would be forced from the system to cut out a wide variety of wage hunters and parasites on public money. Similarly, the pension system would not be viewed as a subject of political bargaining, but rather as a search for social and public financial sustainability. If there is no golden rule, I fear that the debt game will continue for as long as the financing of all cash registers is so far away from the economic bases that public finances will collapse due to debt repayment." Better than Rado Pezdir wrote it, it's hard to write. A balanced and stable public finance policy, and predictability and prudentity in debt, is also a key to a lower interest rate when debt is still needed. Debts that have been leased in the past are falling and need to be refinanced. If, at the time when we originally hired them, such funds were to be invested wisely, they would be able to repay not only interest but the principal. And we didn't. Most of the credit we spent on direct consumption. And at this point today, we are wondering what we got for these good EUR 25 billion, the debt of the Central State on Day 30. 4. 2014? How many jobs have we created in this way that we have 120 thousand unemployed? How much have we improved the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy to fall from year to year? What good public service systems do we have? We have an education that educates top experts who raise added value to the economy above the level of neighbouring countries? Do we have health care where foreigners are being treated, or do our patients go abroad? Do we have a second track and a third pier for this money? What did we get for these 25 billion euros? How successfully have we invested these 25 billion, and how much more are we going to invest in the future? Or perhaps it is time for us to acknowledge for ourselves that it is not an investment, but a naked waste that the time for cost-effectiveness has long passed and that now is the time for sound financial policy, a policy that is determined by the record of the golden financial rule in the constitution and is further operationalised by the implementing law. If they had already implemented a sound financial policy instead of spending, they would not need to have entered into the constitution or the implementing law, but then they would not need even EUR 4 000 500 million this year to service the debt, or EUR 2 000 700 million for the following year, or EUR 3 000 700 million in 2016, and then EUR 2 000 700 million in 2017 and 2018. And since there was no sound financial policy, we must establish it through the Constitution. We've already made this move. This still needs to be operationalized through the implementing law. And since we're in pre-election time, let me repeat the total number for the next four-year period. The 12 billion will have to be provided only for public debt servicing, 12 billion. Then it will not be after the elections when appropriate solutions have to be made, the guarantee that he and he did not know what he was actually going into. Without confusion, the constitutional provisions also apply without implementing law, which means that the President of the Government or the President may be subjected to a constitutional charge if the budget is inadequate or unconstitutional. But to avoid any different fluctuations, whether the budget is good or not, depending on which mathematical formula we take for calculations and whether the computer Mencinger or Masten, Križanič or Šušteršič, the implementing law should be adopted. A golden fiscal rule is like a three-headed dragon that can't wait to burn down the social state of Slovenia. On the contrary. Sweden has been using the fiscal rule in the constitution for 10 years. The fiscal rule does not determine whether a country is large or thin or whether it is social or not. Even with fiscal rules, the country can be a social one. The fiscal rule does not determine the share of government spending and is even higher in Sweden than in Slovenia. I wonder how many Slovenians will sign for Sweden today. Probably a lot more than what we have in Slovenia right now. And that's why our people are going abroad. Indeed, there is something — without an implementing law, the interpretation of a constitutional entry can be far more free and free. And yes, which explanation could even give birth to the fire of a vomiting dragon. In order not to do so, it is necessary to adopt this implementing law, which provides that in bad years we can also create a moderate budget deficit so that the country can then act countercyclically, and stipulates that we will then cover this in good years and create some more stocks for future cycles. Moreover, the principle of the medium-term balance of public finances, which is a fundamental principle enshrined in the Constitution, may be waived in the event of a significant deterioration in the economic situation, as well as in the case of natural and other accidents or other unforeseen events, which means that the implementing law introduces possibilities for exceptions, if necessary. The law also sets the minimum rate of elimination of derogations, which is 0.5 per cent of gross domestic product per year, which amounts to about €170 million per year, which is, say, less than a fifth of what we will pay this year only for public debt interest. Or, say, less than a raise of VAT. Can 170 million be brought in? Of course it is. In any way, however, it depends on whether we choose to save with citizens or with the country. We force higher taxes to save citizens. However, with lower spending, it should save the country or those who are attached to its tits. But there will be no mistake — far from claiming that all those who do business with the country are corrupt and incompetent. On the contrary, most of them work well and fairly, but we must not close our eyes that there are others, those who are increasingly persecuted by the NPU. Holy cows are gone, and that's the way it is. However, it is not only the way to save citizens or countries. Of course, saving is necessary and even more rational spending. We can also do a lot on GDP growth. Not by funding so-called major national projects through a new debt. If we are in debt for a billion and are to finance, let's say, the second track, we need to be aware that a lot of this money will go directly and indirectly abroad. We are no longer at the time of building Hoover's dam, when much was built with shovels, which we can also make in Slovenia. It now builds with swamps and sculptors, which we unfortunately do not work in Slovenia. The driver will get paid and the depreciation of the machines will go to Germany's economic growth. Who, for example, built a roof in the Cologne? It wasn't Trimo. The Germans were. And then we get a second track and it's run by Slovenian railways, which means we pay them every year that the tracks are transportable. Instead of making this investment, we get additional costs in the budget. However, this can be done differently. Let the construction be financed by the private sector in the public-private partnership and we will get the advantages of the economic momentum brought by the construction but without State debt. We get a second track that will release transport flows and stimulate the economy, but without any new budget costs. Even in the area of improving the business environment, we can do a lot without money, but we are again in private kindergartens in the form of agencies, offices, institutions that are stifling instead of encouraging the economy. A sound financial policy adopted by the implementing law on fiscal rules is possible, but for this many will have to give up on their kindergartens, which someone wants to keep to himself, and in fact has no resources and, hand to heart, no knowledge to effectively process them. At least he hasn't shown it in the last 20 years. Voting against the implementing law on fiscal rules is therefore a vote to protect kindergartens where public means of work, work and distribution are in the private interest. One thing is clear: we must not spend more than we create if we want to do good to our children. But if we look only at our own interests, then let this cretaceous party continue. There was a lot of talk about writing it for others when we entered the Constitution. If that comforts you, then comfort yourself with it now and support the marriage. But we need this primarily because of ourselves or even better, because of our children, to receive something else from us, not just debts, to leave them a sovereign state, not a country that will have to operate under the dictatorship of foreigners. Our sovereignty is not at present threatened by the foreign army, and it is threatened by our indiscretion, our duty. In the coming years, we only need to pay off the outstanding debts of EUR 12 billion. Since we probably will not have this surplus in our budget, we have only two ways: whether to borrow from these past debts or sell some of the state's assets. Today, we can still decide on reasonable sales, including some cooperatives that can be set up with their money by stakeholders in a particular story if they so wish. But when we're in a situation where the debt is going to grow over our heads, we're not going to make that decision on our own. Then we may also be forced to make a sale. Of course, there is always a Greek way. We just say we can't and they'll come to our aid. Gentlemen from the ECB, the IMF and the European Commission will pack the suitcases and come to tell us what conditions they can help us under. Their primary objective will be to give us conditions on which we can pay all debts, those that will be granted to bridge problems, and all others. Their goal is not to have a country like ourselves, their goal is that the debts we have rented are paid. Whether we will therefore have to commit ourselves to sharper or softer measures than Greece, Portugal or Spain, we will see more. I believe that it is better to take appropriate measures on our own than to wait for a threesome on the wings of irrational spending of public funds. Then perhaps we will be able to talk about selling out our belongings because we did not want to sell them reasonably when it was an opportunity. Every year, when we have a budget deficit, we have to be in charge of covering this. If this is a billion and a half, this means next year at a 4% interest rate of €60 million. 60 million euros less for schools, roads, pensions and health care, making it more difficult to close this budget gap year after year. In order to maintain the standards achieved, we need to pursue a sound fiscal policy, as we have written in the Constitution and are now entering into the implementing law. Whether it is hygienic or not that such a law is adopted before the elections is completely inappropriate. We should have adopted this law by now. However, given that we are already in the pre-election period, it is appropriate to accept it now, so that everyone who is running for election will be clear what they are launching, that the commitment to work in accordance with the Constitution will mean a commitment to the principle that we do not live beyond our own ability, that financial resources should also be indicated for the pre-election candy or plates that life on credit was enough to have to work. To be clear, here I am not talking about the lives of workers – they feel on their skin every day what a fiscal rule means that you should not spend more than you deserve – I am talking about the country and those who are obsessed with it. Dear colleagues and dear colleagues! Before you press for or against, think about how many kindergartens and schools, books and school meals, heart and pension operations we will spend only on interest payments. Only this year interest is paid by 500 kindergarteners, in each municipality two, at least two. Anti-cyclical activity was mentioned. The experience of the past years shows that we have only spent anticyclically, but we have done exactly the opposite. We're in a circle of countries that have experienced one of the biggest downfalls in the cycle with anti-cyclical extensive spending, and we're picking ourselves up the slowest of all. It is time to change our so far obviously wrong financial policy. In the Civil Gazette, two coalitions were working on bringing the state into the tracks of reasonable public consumption. We see support for this law as the last step towards this goal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr Franz Bogovic will present the position of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u16	Good afternoon, President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We're talking about an implementing law on fiscal rules. Simply put, we are talking about adopting a law in Slovenia that will bind those who spend public money so that you can't spend more than you create in life. If one year is under pressure, there is also a way to get through that year, but in a year, two, three of these accounts need to be settled and in the future you need to have a sound financial balance. This simple explanation was adopted as a member of the European Community in 2012 in the regulation of the European Community, we also tried to adopt a fiscal law in the same year, which was also subject to constitutional opinions. In 2013, when the change of government and when the current coalition, which had broken down, had received the scepter of the state in hand, she realized that what she had said last year was inconsistent with what was to be done, and she worked together with the opposition that we had adopted a constitutional amendment on 24 May 2013 in which we had written down a fiscal rule and committed ourselves to adopting the law that we are talking about today, which will further regulate what we are doing in the years when the recession in the country, what we do when we are affected by elementary disasters and how we manage public finances for a long time. There should be 60 votes, a constitutional majority for us to adopt such a law. According to the parliamentary groups, this will obviously not go through today. However, such a law should be passed in November of last year. So I don't think there's any reason for this mistaking, that there's still enough time and that we're going to have to deal with it in the future. The law should be harmonised, and as stated today, much more needs to be done than just writing down a constitutional law. It is necessary to decide how we will rule in the country. When we saw in the Slovenian People's Party last September that, after almost half a year of government rule, Mrs Alenka Bratušek was not in the light of clear measures, we decided to propose that we sit together and that the technical government should determine what needs to be done in two years – at that time two more years of our Parliament's mandate – and that we would do so. Our initiative has been somewhat mocked. That's when I said the government was operationally incompetent. This has proved to be more than obvious to this day. And that's why we have early elections, we're in pre-election time. In the Slovenian People's Party today, when there is still time before the elections, when the parties can also make a clear commitment to what they will do, write and send to all the parties the Alliance on State Observance – Declaration 5. We are talking about the five measures that must be taken and which must be implemented by responsible state policy, whether it is in coalition or in opposition. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have proven in the past as an opposition party that we know how to support pension reform, although this is a reform that probably does not bring any major political points. We also stepped together in the preparation of the fiscal rule, aware of the full meaning of the word, what this means, that we will find measures to encourage economic growth, to collect more taxes and, on the other hand, to reach out to consumption where we can do so. And that's why we need a wider consensus. That is why, in this declaration, the Alliance on State Holding – Declaration 5 offers a discussion, an agreement before the elections to commit ourselves to issues such as health reform, the regulation of public finances and the enforcement of fiscal rules, improvement of the business environment, equal development of Slovenia, improvement of the rule of law and raising the ethical functioning of politicians, commitment and signing before the elections, and that, in one year at the beginning of the new mandate, no matter where a political party, or in coalition or opposition, it will take a commitment to work in a creative, state-based manner and to identify and focus on these key projects in the future, not to look for allies on the streets, during trade unions and I do not know where such projects will then fall. I hope that in the 14 days in which we want to complement and improve this declaration, as many signatories as possible will commit themselves to such intentions before the elections. In this law, which is currently under consideration, he has set out something that I think all parties simply agree with and are united as far as this is concerned. There have been some inconsistencies at the coordination meetings held in the past. If I observe this law, and if I look at what it is in conflict with what was in a document on coordination, there is a crucial breakthrough in the role of the fiscal world. The Fiscal Council, at least in the opinion of those who have cooperated with us among a number of experts, with the Slovenian People's Party – see as much as it has found in the judiciary that, if the state wants to act, it is still needed in addition to the executive and parliamentary branches of law. And unfortunately, even in Slovenian finances, we need some kind of strong arbitrator to tell us whether we are in control or not. Why do we need him? Because – what have we been doing in Slovenia for the last five years? For the last five, six years, it's been going on for years since the economic crisis. We just didn't know how to respond to this crisis, and we're now up from 8 billion debt to 28 billion. That there will be no misunderstanding, I think there are quite a number of reasons why this debt is today, even before 2008. Even in this part that we used to rehabilitate the banking system, most of the reasons in the years from 2002 to 2008, and we are now paying this price because there was a thought in the economy that privatisation and economic growth could be achieved and that everyone would also live on a high foot. But this part is 3, 4, 5 billion so far. All the rest of this 20 billion, and 10 000 euros of additional debt to each Slovenian who has been created in these five years, is at the expense of excessive consumption or uncoordinated flows and expenditure. During these years, we, the distinguished colleagues, have entrusted each Slovenian with 10,000 euros more. This means that the three-member family owes more than 30,000 Euros in these six years. And if anyone today says from this city that it's not a serious matter, that we don't have to talk about it, that we have time to talk about it one day, and that it's probably just spending the right direction of our country, I'm telling him from this place that he's got the wrong view. I am also one of those I bet, and also in the Slovenian People's Party programme, the new development model, we are betting primarily on improving the business environment, reducing the cost of work, which we firmly believe allows us to grow economically. However, there was a lot of opposition among some colleagues when we spoke in these benches when, on a proposal from the same motioner as today, there was a bill that talked about a dual system. This Tuesday we had the economic summit at the Chamber of Commerce, where the Austrians told us what their school system is, where their children go after primary education. A colleague who came from Austria said a little wickedly, a little sarcastically, that for many years the Austrians were old - fashioned because they continued to insist on the apprenticeship system. In Austria, 40% of young people enter the dual system and complete their schooling at the age of 18. In the years following primary school, 20% of the time is spent at the cathedral and 80% of the training is spent in apprenticeship. The other 40% go, let's simplify, to our technical schools, high school, and they have an exit to college or they go to work. And only 24% of Austrian youth have a diploma today. But they have one of the best economies, because they have people who can work, they train them, and they realize that it's necessary to work so that you can live. When we talk about school reform, one part of the policy that swears on the old systems that we carried out in this part simply disagrees with such interventions. I am talking about one case that will have to be one of the key, around which we will have to find consensus when we are also talking in our declaration on improving the business environment. Education first case, tax system second case, bureaucratic barriers third case. And it is high time, my fellow Members and colleagues, that we talk about serious things as statesmen, as a politician who we care about where this country goes, not as politicians who want to get as many votes as possible in the short term. Now we have this election game ahead of us. These good three weeks are still ahead of us, so I believe that this will be, above all, a time for instant politics, a policy of promise, a policy of candy, something else, and less for a policy of a serious and responsible stance. However, whoever takes control of this country after 13 July will face reality, as this government coalition did when it took over the country in March 2013 and it was suddenly necessary to write a fiscal rule into the constitution, including a referendum to be enshrined in the constitution. Unfortunately, to date, the same actors have forgotten that there is a need to make an implementing law, but also to take fiscal rules seriously in implementation, which means that we need to find consensus and find measures to increase the tax inflows on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to really look very carefully at our subsystems, what needs to be addressed, what needs to be removed, which will also make it easy for us to relieve any unnecessary official position and have coordinated public finances on the medium term. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will, of course, support this law, which is now in the first reading. As I have already mentioned in the fiscal world, we also want to give a thorough discussion and a fiscal world back a place that has basically been written down, because I think that politics, one or the other, ultimately needs a certain view of one professional body, such as the fiscal world, not to like politics again. We would be happy to support such a marriage in the second, third reading. Unfortunately, as I have heard, what a terrible optimist to achieve this law by a two-thirds majority, I cannot be, but it is certainly one of the things in which we will have to bite immediately and implement it in the new mandate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u17	Thank you. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! All of us in this Chamber today, constitutional and financial experts, employed by the Government and here in the National Assembly, all the remaining interested public, all of us have made tremendous efforts to put the fiscal rule in our country's highest legal act last May. This project was a joint project. We did not separate ourselves from the left and from the right, but together we crossed heads and, after examining the extensive material and after several hours of consultation with a large majority, we also confirmed this rule. But our work didn't end there. Thus, a working group for the establishment of an implementing act, whose adoption of the Constitution is envisaged within 6 months of its entry into force, has been set up. Indeed, the deadline for adoption has already expired, but no one can tell us that we have been working together, both the opposition and the coalition, to implement and adopt the fiscal rule law. Throughout this time, even today, Members of the DeSUS believe that the law for the implementation of this constitutional provision is necessary, and we have also expected that our views will be harmonised and that we will adopt the law in this mandate. We all agreed that we must strive not to spend more than we create in the future. We have all been united that public finances need to be stabilised, and we have all agreed that we must not lose our sovereignty in terms of decision-making in the area of our finances. It is true, however, that only a few questions remain open, that this also shows that this opposition law is a practical result of the work of this working group. In the DeSUS Group, we had already warned that the introduction of a fiscal rule should in no case affect the social and pension areas. We persist in this position today, and we will remain in the future. Why? More than 35% of pensioners live below the poverty line, which means that 210 000 pensioners receive less than €600. EUR 600 represents the amount of the average pension in Slovenia. This information clearly tells us how our pensioners, who have been building this country, live. Less than €600 per month's income - I ask: could we survive with this amount? No, we cannot allow the consequences of failure to act or the wrong moves of all governments to be borne by pensioners, workers, and, at the final stage, by our children. To return to the text of the proposed law alone. As I have already mentioned, this is the joint text of the working group of all parliamentary parties. And for the most part, the bill is acceptable to us. However, in the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we must lay out a provision that practically prevents the establishment of a demographic reserve fund, for which it was very difficult to negotiate at the time of the adoption of the pension law and, once again, at the time of the adoption of the Slovenian State Holding Act. I would like to point out that both laws have been enacted under the tactics of various governments, under the leadership of the SDS, and the law on holding under the leadership of the current government, Alenka Bratušek, under the authority of the current government. Also in the last negotiations, Members of the Democratic Party of Slovenian Pensioners to the government of Alenka Bratušek gave in and suspended the establishment of a demographic fund for one year. Perhaps, however, stronger financial politicians concluded this with a fig in their pocket and were aware that they would prevent the establishment of this fund by means of a fiscal rule law. This is precisely why the DeSUS Group cannot support this proposal. If we supported this law, we would fail not only ourselves but all pensioners and all the active population. The basic purpose of the demographic fund is to provide additional resources to finance the first pension pillar. It is therefore intended to ensure the long-term sustainability of the pension system for demographic reasons. The fact is, from year to year, there are fewer inflows to the pension register and more pensioners. As a result, the state budget is becoming increasingly burdensome. Additional resources from the administration of state assets would thus at least partially replace the missing funds and consequently relieve the budget. If DeSUS Members confirmed such a text of the bill as we now have on the table, this would mean a complete collapse of the pension allowance, which would result not only in a drastic reduction in current pensions but should be faced with fear of whether pension payments would be possible in the coming years. At the same time, this provision also prevents the transfer of EUR 50 million from Kad, i.e. from state property to the PSI for the coordination of pensions. And once again, we stress that it prevents the transfer of 10% of the purchase of state property, which we representatives of DeSUS have been difficult to choose as one of the sources of pension financing. Once again, this is a key reason for our decision to oppose the proposal unanimously in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. It is true that this provision could also be remedied in the course of the legislative process, of course if there was the will to do so by all other parliamentary parties. However, there is no time for negotiation and in-depth coordination. Our term of office is counted as days. Therefore, the urgency and adoption of such important decisions as the implementation of the fiscal rule is totally inappropriate at this pre-election time. Since this is an extremely difficult matter, it is necessary to design quality solutions and to achieve as broad a consensus as possible. Therefore, in the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia we estimate that it is better that this matter represents one of the first and priority tasks of the new parliamentary and government configuration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u19	Thank you, too. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! There is no government, of course it is not, because the government is on a sad bench, which is also right because the government is a violation of the Constitution. And those who violate the Constitution must sit on the bench. And this is not a sad bench, this is a bench reserved for the Government in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. In the first place, let us recall how the constitutional audit procedure for the entry into the Constitution of a fiscal rule was carried out as the highest legal act of the State. For quite some time, the current coalition parties have advocated a solution that the writing of the fiscal rule into the constitution is not necessary at all and that it is sufficient that this rule be written down only in law. We do know, however, that the law can be amended by a simple majority and there is no guarantee that the view of fiscal balance would change with each time the political structure of Parliament. It was not until after long-standing convincings and negotiations with the parties of the current coalition that we finally voted with the necessary constitutional majority on 23 May last year to write a fiscal rule into the Constitution as the highest legal act of the State. We have amended Article 148 of the Constitution, which provides that the revenue and expenditure of the state's budgets must be balanced in the medium term without any debt or surplus. The country's budgets are not limited to the state budget, but also to health and pension bills, budgets of local communities and direct users of state and local budgets, which are financed more than 50% from public funds. We have also written down exceptions to when a temporary derogation from the fiscal rule can be granted. These are cases of exceptional circumstances for the country. We have also noted that the criteria for determining exceptional circumstances and the manner of handling in these cases are laid down by the implementing law to be drawn up by the Government and will also have to be voted by the National Assembly by a constitutional majority, a two-thirds majority. I'm afraid we're halfway there. As we have said, we have voted to amend Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, but we have not adopted a law that would regulate the implementation into the Constitution of the written fiscal rule. The government of Alenka Bratušek, within the 6-month period that expired already last November, has not prepared the implementing law until today and has not invested in the parliamentary procedure, and has not apologized here. That's why the government is sitting on a sad bench. In Novi Slovenija, this treatment is assessed as irresponsible to the country and to the citizens, as well as to the image that Slovenia shows to the outside world. In particular, the European Union, which we are a member of, is closely following us in the field of public finances. We know that every year we need to send the reform programme to the European Commission with the measures we are planning to regulate our public finances. The European Commission also sends its recommendations to us every year in response to the reform programme submitted. And of course, the European Commission made it clear in this year's recommendations that the Government has not prepared its task of drafting a law to implement the fiscal rule. And here we need to make clear the responsibility of the entire current government coalition. It is precisely because of these delays or the passiveness of the Government that we will today consider the draft law on the fiscal rule of Members of the New Slovenia Group. The law provides a substantive explanation and defines the existence of exceptional circumstances when it is possible to derogate from the fiscal rule, in particular defining the powers and tasks of the Government, the National Assembly and other authorities in the event of imbalances in the State budget due to exceptional circumstances. Of course, some solutions need to be complemented and further improved, which can be done in further consideration of this law in the parliamentary procedure. Nevertheless, we Christian Democrats are convinced that by adopting the law we are already so late that no coalition party of the government so far is likely to deny support for this law in this first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u21	Thank you, too. Mag. Andrej Vizjak will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u22	Honourable President of the National Assembly, distinguished and rare colleagues in this Chamber! One of the most important topics in this mandate is my assessment, of course, in addition to the fact that we have passed a fiscal rule in the Constitution, because fiscal rule is a rule that forms the basis of responsible and sustainable public finance policy. This probably sounds a little complicated, but very simple means that we can spend as much in this country as we can with taxes and other revenues of the state budget. That, of course, we can use more in exceptional circumstances, but then we need to return it soon so that we can be balanced again. I think that gold is a fiscal rule, or that we can spend as much from the budget as we collect it, but I don't think that's just me. Commander, I would say that they will be from European integration. Because of the 80 % public debt we are in the process of eliminating the surplus public debt and we will have to reduce it, which means that we will have to have less than we will have to have revenue if we want to repay this debt, because only by selling the debt assets we will not be able to reduce, but we will also have to reduce the debt with the budget surplus. Look, the golden fiscal rule -- that's what every economist's holding on to. Each economic operator can, within the framework of its company, afford its business process as much expenditure as it can sell its products or services on the market. That's perfectly clear. He must not owe himself and spend the money he borrows for what he does without paying off that debt. That's clear to everyone. This is clear to every family member, every responsible master. Finally, it is clear to a family member that if he comes into a family, such as 2,000 or 1,000 euros a month, he can spend so much and nothing more. It's even better to spend less and create some gold reserve for tough times. This is how every responsible family master behaves. And also a farmer, including a farmer, when masters of his own agriculture, is aware of exactly what his expenditure is, and is aware of how much he can gain from his activities on the market and that he must not spend more than he gets on the market. He may be in charge of, say, buying a machine, buying a tractor or anything else, but he must know at the same time that he has to create a surplus in the coming years or that he has to sell more than he has the expenses to repay these loans. Ladies and gentlemen, here today, in this House, we explain the logic that this must also be done by the State or the responsible public finances so that we can spend as much as we can with tax, non-tax and other resources in this country. And why are we proposing and advocating the early adoption of the implementing law in the Slovenian Democratic Party? Because of the numbers we've made in the last few years, which I'm going to show on concrete graphs below. The first concrete graph speaks of an increase in indebtedness in our country. The above blue curve shows the increase in indebtedness as a percentage of gross domestic product, i.e. what our economy creates in one year. We have increased this debt by about 60% of gross domestic product in 6 years since 2008, that is, since the start of the economic financial crisis. This is a remarkable achievement, I must say, this is an incredible trend! And if we melt this into billions, we can figure out that we owe 20 billion euros in debt over the past six years. 20 billion euros! That's the real trend. It's a disaster. And if we look at what we owe it all to, it's an even bigger disaster! Indeed, we are not in charge of updating our information, rail, energy, road infrastructure – no, respectable, we are in charge of spending this money on some things where we can forget that money will come back. Above all, it's an ongoing consumption, a resolution of the banking system. And the question is, is also, say, one of the destinations of this money, this is the rehabilitation of the banking system, completely done. I'm a big skeptic myself, and I don't think so. This is what we say we propose a golden fiscal rule, the implementation of responsible and sustainable public finances in times of these impossible trends. That's our argument. Why are we suggesting this? Because these trends need to be stopped. Look, the rise in debt is the most irresponsible policy towards future generations. This is the most anti - youth policy for young people in this country, because these loans, these debts and these interest rates will be repaid by those who will only begin to create in this country, those who are looking for a job and cannot get to it. Indeed, some of these loans will fall over a decade or more, and many of us will then no longer be active, a passive viewer expecting him to have a decent pension, and with the expectation that young people will repay these debts. And later, when we start implementing our fiscal rule, we will burden those who follow us or those who will have to repay these loans. Another problem is to show and move the budget deficit or surplus as a percentage of current revenue. I'm sorry you can't see the numbers in these red columns on this graph. All the red columns are below zero and show a percentage of deficits in current revenues. We were very fond of talking about the deficit as a percentage of gross domestic product. But we have a budget deficit that has nothing to do with gross domestic product, but it has to do with the revenue and expenditure of the state budget. And if we look at the deficit in percent of the current revenue, then we see that the numbers are catastrophic! We had almost a 25% deficit in 2009! We've spent 25% of our current revenue! What are current revenues? These are tax and non-tax revenue. This does not include revenue from the European Union and these things, which are either intentional or then investment and so on. That's liquid revenue. These are the incomes that we collect with taxes, excise duties and everything else. Current revenues are also not income from, I don't know, property sales and so on. These are the revenue we collect in the tax and non-tax revenues budget. This is what we in 2009 spent 25% more than we did with taxes, excise duties and everything else in the budget. Only in 2012, this is the last red column, both with the ZUJF and with some other measures, has this been corrected to a weak 16%, 15.7%. And look, in 2013, we have another 22.6% deficit in terms of current revenues. And it's not gonna get any better this year. The question of what will happen this year, given that they are crying in all ministries, especially in the infrastructure, that they are running out of money for the most urgent, is the urgent repair of roads, railways, student tickets, the salaries of those, those, others, thirds. And we're not even halfway through the summer. What will be revealed to us in the second half of the year! What else is hidden in these premises of the Ministry of Finance when we find out the real picture where the money is missing. And then when we see how much deficits there will be in terms of current income, we'll probably get a headache. This is our picture of how we've been mastering the past six years. We spend more than 20% more than we collect with current revenues or taxes and non-tax revenues. This is a disastrous public financial policy, which is a light-year from sustainable public finances. Dearly beloved, this is similar to having a family that earns a thousand euros a month and spends a thousand and 250 euros. And it doesn't just work for a month, it does it for a year, it does it for six years. And then we talk and we boast that money is still being lent to us and they're lending us money by – I don't know, now it's a real achievement if they lend us 4 or 5 percent interest rates, not 6, 7 more than before. We will be able to boast that we owe ourselves cheap when our economic growth is higher than our interest. In any case, where economic growth is lower than interest, this case is totally unsustainable, totally unsustainable. Because we don't cover interest rates with growth. This everyone knows, which does not know the alphabet of mathematics, but from mathematics and public finances, the first letter itself. So when we look at this balance of the state budget – now I am really talking about the state budget, I am not talking about other cash registers, but they are not in a much better situation. We speak more broadly on the golden fiscal rule here, but the basis is also the state budget. And the next graph, I think, says the most. This next graph shows a comparison of current expenditure and current revenue of the state budget over the last 7 years. The blue graph shows current revenue. I have already said that current revenue is tax and non-tax revenue. And the red graph shows the state's current expenditure. What are running expenses? These are current transfers and expenditure for the salaries of public servants, contributions, including interest on leased loans and so on. In short, what the state uses to function, this shows a red graph. And the blue graph shows what we collect with taxes and other non-tax revenue. And if I make it very simple, we can find that we are spending one billion more on our functioning in this country than we are collecting with taxes and non-tax revenue. We've been spending one billion more than we've been creating for the last six years. These two graphs are a dented investment, and revenue from European addresses, European funds and so on is also being dented. In short, this only speaks of the costs that the state has for its operation to maintain its apparatus, including, I must say and be honest, for its current maintenance, but there is no investment maintenance. This is what we can say that we are in an extremely unsustainable state when we spend one billion more on our functioning than we are able to collect liquid revenue into the state budget. In fact, here you can see that these current revenues for 2013 are €6.85 billion and current expenditure over €8 billion. And for 2014, there is no better prospect. You can see an important change in the trends in 2012, when we had the second government of Janez Janša and when we took some measures that are still in effect today, this is in particular the Public Finance Balance Act. You can see that at the time, the curve broke, that running expenditure began to decline, and running revenue increased. If these trends were to continue in 2013, 2014, 2015, our blue curve would rise again above red and that would be some signal, the first shy bird of some sustainability in public finances. But in 2013, when the government of Alenka Bratušek took place, we became very far away from these goals, not to mention how we continued this year. So, respectable, from these graphs I just wanted to show you that over the last six years we have increased our debt enormously, we have come over 80% of gross domestic product, and that in these six years we have also destabilised public finances with a large deficit, which is constant, which we are not able to substantially reduce, and we are running public finances that are extremely unsustainable. That's not how it works on the middle hand anymore. We have, respectable, probably one happiness, which thank God is not random, for which we have tried many years ago, it is that we are members of the euro area, that we are members of integration and that we are members of one system that helps each other. And of course, every Member State will not just go bankrupt because unsustainable public finances in Slovenia are a problem of the euro area, including the problem of the European Union and so on. That is why, of course, those who lend us money know this well. We're a relatively small economy, and to just go into bankruptcy on our own, as indicated by these numbers, is unlikely, and that's why they're lending us money. The money would not be lent to us if we were not relatively sure that if we were not alone, but we would already find solutions within some joint action that would probably be painful for us, but they will be the solutions to the money they lend us. If we were outside the euro area and outside the European Union, believe me, no one would lend us the euro anymore. However, because we are also in these rescue mechanisms, because we are also part of this huge system, we are fortunate to be able to get the money, because those who give it to us know that even if we are going to totally screw up the situation, we will fall into one or another collective resolution mechanism. Since the euro is not our currency, it is also our currency, the euro is Europe's currency, the euro is Germany's currency, the euro is France's currency and many other European countries, large economies. And the one from America who lends us money knows that someone will cover us if we don't know how to cover this ourselves. And here to cultivate some euphoria, satisfaction over the state of public finances by reducing the interest rates on leased loans, is throwing sand in the eyes of itself and actually hiding behind some unconvincing arguments. Your Honor, how do you proceed? I have now outlined to you with some very simple numbers the situation we are in, and why we need a fiscal rule immediately that will legitimize the principles that we use in this country as much as we are able to gather. I think that the first step is to resolve the situation that these two curves of running expenditure and current revenue are somehow getting into the situation as it was before 2008, which is to say that we are spending less than we are able to collect with taxes and non-taxable revenues. That's the first step. How do you do that? By measures on both sides, both by measures to rationalise the functioning of the country and by measures to collect more taxes and contributions. And in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are in favour of the rule that with lower taxes more taxes can be collected, because if we cover more economic operators and beneficiaries, it is true that if we experience some economic growth of more businesses, more jobs, and more consumption as a result, we can also collect more tax revenues. We do not consent to raising existing taxes in a given situation. On the contrary, we believe that the economy needs to be burdened with tax. Even those who earn little should be burdened with tax, of course without affecting the company's competitiveness in any way, while at the same time there is a lot to be done on the expenditure side when we are talking about the public sector. In the Slovenian Democratic Party we oppose linear incisions into the public sector, this is called a non-selective incision, if you all give by 1, 2, 5 %, I don't know how much, to tighten the belt – this is unsustainable, this is impossible. We need one reform of the public sector in the public sector to see what our public sector is doing to address certain business processes that this public sector is doing to de-barry the country, to reduce the number of procedures, the consensus. This will probably leave too many officials who today give and complicate their lives to economic operators and people. This is said to rationalise the functioning of the country through business processes, and this will also rationalise the number of employees, selectively, where we do not need people. I don't know why we would charge people with taxes and a tax economy to pay this if we can't even cover current expenditure with tax and non-tax revenues. There's a lot of reserves here, and there's a lot of them. We have also written this in our forward programme and everyone can read it on our websites. When we also launched this topic on the Commission on Public Finance Control and held a discussion with the Ministry of Finance, they told us that they had prepared a reform programme and a stability programme, which this Assembly also addressed in the spring of this year, since there are measures to ensure and stabilise public finances. And then we went from project to project, from side to side in this reform programme, and we found that there are no measures in there, there are objectives in there. It is written, for example, that they will reduce public sector wages by 5%. It's not a measure, that's the point. But no one has written about how this will happen – whether it will be as I said before, whether it will be linear or progressive or how it will be. And now, as we can see, the negotiations are not going in this direction either, and there will be nothing in this title. There will be no reduction of salary in the public sector by 5 percentage points or 5 %. He won't, because he can't be, because there's not a single action that could lead to this. Then it says, in this reform programme, that the revenue of the municipalities will be reduced. The revenue of the congregations may be reduced only when certain obligations are also relieved. However, you cannot go to the municipalities to impose new and new obligations, while at the same time lowering revenues. Then it also writes about some other objectives in this public finance area, which are not supported by any single measure to be able to say: okay, here, this will give concrete results. This means that this reform programme is a list of some objectives without a single concrete action. We in this House have not seriously addressed any measure that would lead to the objective of stabilising public finances on the expenditure side. And what remains, respectable, to the opposition of another than to propose an implementing law for a golden fiscal rule that compels, last but not least, to force officials and politicians to stick to responsible and sustainable public finances. This is our duty as politicians and our commitment and commitment to the coming generation. I'll finish with one single fact. So managing public finances, as has been the case in recent times, is a direct attack if you want the whereabouts of the young generation as well. Today, we are happy to rent loans at unsustainable interest rates. Every interest rate above nothing for Slovenia is currently unsustainable. That's what we're saying. We're borrowing expensive loans for what we're currently spending here today. These two graphs show this – we spend one billion more than we can collect with taxes. This is exactly what we are in charge of covering this difference between income and expenditure. And who's gonna pay for that? Who will pay for this irresponsible way of managing public finances? Those who follow us. Those who will create in this country in the future, the economy, the young. And the biggest advocate of the golden fiscal rule or of these responsible public finances should be, in my opinion, the very generation that comes after us who will pay taxes in this country and who will create in this country. They'll pay for it. In a very short time, we will be faced with the relatively sharp demands of the European Commission on the reduction of surplus public debt. We will have to reduce public debt from good 80 % of gross domestic product this year to 60% over a certain period. This says we will have to reduce about 20% of gross domestic product, which means that we will have to do a lot of things to reduce it. The Minister said that we would privatise, that is to say that we would sell state property, that we would recover a bad bank and get some money, and that we would probably balance public finances. In short, we'll pick up more and spend less. And unfortunately, the outgoing government of Alenka Bratušek, apart from the beautiful words and blank documents, has not taken any mention of valuable measures in this direction. The only thing we experienced was a tax hike, an attempt by some of the new taxes that have collapsed in a piano, an extremely destructive dividend policy for the economy – 250 million of which you intend to withdraw this year's dividend from state-owned enterprises, which in any case do not operate brilliantly, but rather live a little. This, my respects, is not a responsible and sustainable public financial policy. And an important step towards this policy is the bill before us, so of course we will support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the proposer, please, mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. As regards this law, some things need to be clarified, because I feel that some of my colleagues in the coalition do not represent or understand this law, the content of this law, or they do not want to understand it. The first thesis here is, of course, the idea that the country will come to the green for it to come out of the crisis, the condition for the adoption of this law, too, is the development agenda. No, the development programme is not a condition for this law, the development programme can be made and can be adopted at any time in this country. Many development programmes have already been made in this country and many development plans, and it is important that these development plans are actually being implemented. This means that there is no need to wait for development programmes, no need to wait for development plans. This law can go on without any other important laws relating primarily to development. Development here is important. I agree that development is important, but development is based on sound foundations. What happened to the debt policy if we talked from 2008 onwards, because since 2008, Slovenia had 8 billion debt and 21.5% gross social product? In 2014, the country has more than 28 billion debts. 20 billion debt has been leased by the state, it has always been leased by the government. Alenka Bratušek hired, say, 11.5 billion in one year. It was extremely long in 2009, I think about 8 billion. And what really happened to that debt? Nothing happened. Moreover, in 2009, during the government of Borut Pahor, unemployment increased by 30,000. While we were in debt and at the same time talking about how we would actually do something for development and so on. No! No! The only thing we've done today is our sons, our grandchildren, pay interest. And I don't know, those who are actually opposed to the fiscal rule law, or you're also opposed to the fact that grandchildren and children would no longer pay so much interest that they would have better education, so that they would have more jobs, so that they would have more knowledge to actually gain more skills to have a better life. Generations cannot be continuously indebted to future generations. It just doesn't work anymore. And the fiscal rule law is the one that will actually round up the public financial policy, the public financial policy that, I think, is not really in control here, especially the left governments, because development cannot be based on debt. And it is not true that Europe has changed its direction to allow for more debt. Europe has told Slovenia exactly what to do. She said very precisely with her hands, including in the field of public finances. Europe notes that a deficit of less than 3 % of gross social product will not be achieved in 2015 unless the Government adopts certain measures. In the area of structural change, unless it adopts certain measures to encourage growth and employment and to implement the fiscal rule. This was written three weeks ago by the European Commission. But the government of Alenka Bratušek does not implement the fiscal rule if the European Commission says it will be very difficult to reach a deficit of 3.1%. So, of course, here is also the question of ethics and morality, whether the present generation can live permanently at the expense of others, while incurring future generations. I think that's what needs to be done. As a result, the law is also essential from a substantive point of view, including from the point of view of independence and autonomy of the State, not only because the current coalition has brought this country into an unconstitutional position. And, of course, that's why nobody got hurt. It can therefore continue to spend and can continue to be indebted. And if we are talking about this debt, then the debt took place in a way that, at the beginning of the year, we were in a euphoric debt in international markets, especially in the markets of the United States, where we were in charge of paying debts by the beginning of next year. The interest rate was around 5%. Today, the interest rate fell below 3%. The Ministry of Finance or the government of Alenka Bratušek has 5 billion in the account. Is there any logic here? Is there any financial logic here? He's in debt at higher rates than he is today, and your money's in the account and you're waiting for future commitments. And that's what this government did, and that's what this coalition did. I think that this is extremely bad, and it is a very bad signal how Slovenia will actually operate. It is likely that those who will lend us money will increase interest on the ten-year bond for Slovenia in the following year, so that we will again be indebted at a high interest rate. Then the interest may even let you go. Excuse me, all those who speak of independence, independence, all of this – the independence and independence of the Slovenian state is diminishing with the increasing indebtedness of this government and this coalition and the burden on future generations. The question of time – ladies and gentlemen, 20, 21 May 2013 was adopted by the Constitution; we have adopted it here. I hope not some with a fig in their pocket, because the constitution also says that the implementing law should be passed within 6 months. And yes, the Slovenian Democratic Party and opposition parties pointed out that this law was not ready and did not want to be prepared. Since the government of Alenka Bratušek had the full assistance of the European Commission in preparing this law, the assistance of the International Monetary Fund, the assistance of the European Central Bank, the assistance of all international institutions, so that this law could be prepared. But she didn't want it, and she didn't want it, because she probably accepted the constitution with a fig in her pocket. And after that, even on the basis of the pressures of the Slovenian Democratic Party, until the establishment of the working group, the law was actually prepared there, except for the four issues. This is a law that has been given to the general debate, which is not the day to be adopted today, but to change in other readings or in subsequent procedures, which will be able to change, which provisions will be able to be amended, but in order that Slovenia will in fact be in a position that will not be unconstitutional, in a position that will be established. As a result, some speculation is that there was not enough time and so forth from the vine. How long do you need? How long do you need for a marriage like this? We're talking about a year here. In one year, the coalition was unable to adopt or draft a fiscal rule law, nor was that government able to prepare it, and of course it can be harmonized. Because the government of Alenka Bratušek has not done so, the Slovenian Democratic Party has adopted the law that this working group has made with all open issues that can be resolved in the course of the debate. Time's enough, and time's enough. It is mentioned here that there is still a need to amend the Public Finance Act. Yes, it has been changing for 4 years at the Ministry of Finance, and the Public Finance Act has been changing for 4 years and nothing has changed. Maybe four more years, five, six years, and he doesn't want to change either. It does not want to change because, under the new law, the treatment of revenue and expenditure will be different than it is now. To simplify, not on the basis of a paid realization as it is now and is contrary to international standards and contrary to the recommendations of the European Commission, but on the basis of an accrued realization. This is why it does not want to be done, because the financial situation of the country as it is is. Time's enough. In one year, many other things can be changed, and many other marriages can be adopted and prepared. Some countries have done a great deal in one year, and Slovenia has done a great deal in 1990 and 1991. But now he won't, and the people painted, and said, "The time is too short." You've had one year! The fact that this law restricts opportunities for increased employment and economic growth is a complete fictitious one. That's a stupid statement. This law allows for economic growth on a healthy basis and allows for greater employment on the basis of this. Deception is that spending as much as we create and, of course, creating a few more reserves will reduce economic growth. When we committed 8 billion in 2009, economic growth fell by 8.2% and unemployment increased by 30,000 jobs. From 60,000 to 90,000 unemployed in 2009, we're in debt. Why? Why was Borut Pahor’s government in charge at the time? Why did Minister Križanič in those days? Because we're still in recession today, and now we just want to do it again. Now we want to repeat the same story, the same story is true that we will be in debt, on the other hand, we have modest economic growth mainly because it has a foreign, because our trading partners, the countries with which we are doing business, have more economic growth, and we have economic growth here primarily at their expense. So that such persecution that this law reduces economic growth and reduces new employment is easy from the vine, I'm sorry. This is not proved by countries where they already have a fiscal rule; for example, Sweden was mentioned earlier. Of course, this is not only about the state budget, but it is about the country in a broader sense, which means that these rules are also binding on the municipalities, state-owned enterprises, that these rules are also bound by pension bills, health bills and so on. This is the whole state sector or, if you want, the state according to the ESA 95 methodology. The discussion was also about the fiscal council, and according to the proposal prepared by this expert group, the fiscal council in this proposal proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party is otherwise regulated. It is regulated so that the operation, the establishment – in fact, it is not necessary, because the fiscal council is already operating – especially the functioning, the tasks, the responsibilities of the fiscal council are regulated in the Public Finance Act and not in the Fiscal Council Act. That's the way it is today. In particular, so that the fiscal council does not become some administrative bureaucrat bar, which of course can become, so that it does not resemble some of the institutions that we have today, but we do not really know exactly what we expect of them or what we get or what we should get and what we should expect. This would make the fiscal council much more flexible in the Public Finance Act. After all, we already have a fiscal world today. The fiscal world has also submitted a report on economic policy years ago, but it is not working today. Today, too, the Minister of Finance is in no condition and has not been able in the last year to revive this fiscal world. It's the Minister of Finance's job. Or not being controlled or for any other reason. The government of Alenka Bratušek has also done nothing to make the fiscal council, which is already established today, easy to operate and revive within the framework of the Public Finance Act. For this reason, I think that, of course, there is an open opportunity to discuss what kind of fiscal world we want in this country, what its task and responsibility is. In no way in the Slovenian Democratic Party do we want the fiscal council to take responsibility instead of the current government, instead of the government that will rule at that time. In short, responsibility must not be passed on to the fiscal world. The government is responsible for policy management, for managing economic, financial, social and so on, the whole policy. For this reason, I think it is still possible to agree on a fiscal world and, of course, it is also possible to adopt further solutions that will reach a two-thirds majority in the National Assembly. I think that this law is a good foundation, a good basis for actually doing that.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u25	Thank you very much. There are quite a few out-of-the-box debaters in the debate, so I will now read the first things in a row that will be discussed. As the first Mr. Daniel Krivec, then Mag. Katarina Hotchevar, Iva Dimic, mag. Marko Pogačnik, then Dr. Ljubica Jelusič. But first, I give my word to Mr Daniel the guilty one.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to my friends and colleagues! I will support this marriage myself in this first reading. It saddens me that the commitments undertaken by the National Assembly in the past, as well as the executive part, the Government, have been attempted in some way to be postponed to some indefinite future time. Above all, I am surprised at my fellow Members who would like to transfer this hot bone to the Members who will come to the National Assembly after 13 July. I don't think this is good for the credibility of the country outside, in the international space. The facts are indisputable, and the National Assembly has already adopted the Constitutional Act amending Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia on 24 May 2013 and has also established a means of implementing this amended Article. In this first Article, it provided that all revenue and expenditure to finance public spending must be covered by the budgets of the countries and must demonstrate medium-term balance. This sounds very learned, but the fact is that this fiscal rule is in some way already in force in all other public spheres of the country, but it does not clearly apply to the main contractor, that is, the government and the Ministry of Finance. If we look at the obligations and rules that must be respected by public institutions that must be respected by local communities, it is clear that this fiscal rule has already been established. No municipality may be in charge of any of the rules of the game prescribed by the Ministry of Finance and no debt shall go beyond the approval of the Ministry of Finance. There is no way to overindebt the congregation. So, in any case, these rules in our space are already in force. Nor do I imagine that the National Assembly or the government could bypass the rules of the game that apply within the European Union, in which we are full members, and as we accept the benefits, we must also accept the obligations that we sign at the highest level. Thus, on 19 April 2014, we also adopted a law on the ratification of the Intergovernmental Stability Treaty, which clearly includes a fiscal rule that clearly states that the structural deficit must be below 0.5% of gross domestic product. Why does it not want to be included in the law and thus restrict both budget preparers at this time and those who will be doing so in the future, everyone has to ask themselves? However, the fact is that by overindebtedness, we are merely burdening future generations who will have to settle these obligations in the future. The Constitutional Court, in its decisions on the non-constitutionality of the two referendums, on the Slovenian State Holding Act and on the Act on the measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks, has unequivocally stated that the commitments we are signing at the level of international treaties are a clear obligation and also stem from our full membership in the European Union. So at this point and in this case there is no room for manoeuvre, so that these obligations are clearly not entered into by law, as the National Assembly has already committed itself and this 6-month period has already gone far. This means that if the Government does not want to make such a law, we are all Members or the National Assembly in some way obliged to arrange it. And it is not right to try or try to translate this obligation into new Members who will come to the National Assembly after 13 July. The fact is, no domestic economy or household can afford to spend more from month to month than it has inflows within its budget. The same applies to all economic operators. Obviously, this rule does not apply to our country or is not respected, although some balance is already described in other laws, which unfortunately, like the constitutional law, are not binding. It is therefore right that this call by the National Assembly should carry out this debate and support the law which it has already adopted, several times in this reference. And there is no argument that this rule and this law would not be supported at this first reading and adopted in the final stage. So I support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! I have two draft implementing laws on the constitutional fiscal rule ahead of me. He is one from July 2012 and is the proposal of our former Minister Dr Šuštersič and the other from today, submitted by the SDS Group. I understand that the objectives of both laws are the same. Both proposals follow sustainable public finances, ensuring macroeconomic stability, greater financial discipline and a framework for sustainable and stable national economic development. Of course, I will also support this proposal, because in the Civil Gazette, and especially myself, we have always advocated the writing of a fiscal rule into the Constitution, and especially into practice itself. The implementing law that we have before us today contains six articles more than we have coordinated two years ago. It is also likely that one working group, composed of representatives of all parliamentary groups, has been formed in this government as well. And I suppose, or as we've already talked about, she did her job and somehow harmonised or upgraded her marriage. I will not go into nuances on purpose, because I am prepared to make compromises in order for this implementing law to finally be adopted. If I put it very simply, the implementing law is about as much as we decide to go to London with the car, but then we just have to agree whether we're going to go with the diesel or with the car on the petrol drive or whether we're going to have blue, red or black coatings or maybe darkened glass. I want to say that the implementing law itself is of course important, but the nuances within it are essentially less important, and it is important that we finally accept it and that we finally agree on how we will implement it in practice for this objective, which is already enshrined in Article 148 of the Constitution. I must say that I was a little disappointed at some of the views of the individual parliamentary groups that have today rejected the support of this law. And this is precisely what the parliamentary groups, when they also had the opportunity to run the government, have not only doubled public debt in the period 2008-2011, but have also doubled unemployment, which shows that such a policy does not work in practice. Here I have a graph of the unemployment movement, but I also have information on the duality of public debt. And of course, you will now say: The Civil Code has also participated in the last government and the public debt has also increased. But that previous government has doubled its public debt, of course I am talking about the Pahor government 2008-2011 without the rehabilitation of banks and the banking system. I want to say that the current spending policy does not work for a long time, and we have nothing to do with doubling the public debt, doubling unemployment or other than the alleged profitable investment in Greece, as Minister Križanič of that time said, unfortunately is not working. We need to look at what works in practice. Today we can't just talk about what the electorate likes, but about what works in practice. And if something didn't work, we have to use other policies, such as the economic policies that our President, Mr Starman, has led in companies. These obviously worked, and this is a guarantee that we take Slovenia out of the crisis. Its economic policy was based on liberal economic ideas and on efficiency, and together with sustainable public finances is just the right way for Slovenia. There are things that just work, and there are things that don't work. The West's working, the Soviet Union's not working. And I think that when we decide which way Slovenia is going, and who will we trust to lead the country in the years to come, we also need to look at a few figures, no populist performances, no data, and ask ourselves what policies have actually given results and which ones have not. Since I am a Member, I have advocated sustainable public finances and have advocated the entry of fiscal rules into both the Constitution and the implementing law. I'll probably get a ball that doesn't even come before this state council. I asked the oral question of when we would get the implementing law on the table myself as a Member in October. This has also been pointed out by Members in the framework of coalition coordination and, under various points, at meetings of the home work bodies. It is true that this government could have rushed or been more operational in this regard, but, of course, there is another fact that we also need a two-thirds majority for the implementing law. It grieves me that we will probably not reach it, but my vote has an implementing law, regardless of the fact that it comes from the opposition species, and of course also the voice of all Members and Members of the Civil Code. We are not changing our position, but we have been firmly defending this entire mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I, like my colleague Katarina, am disappointed in some of the views of the parliamentary groups, but we are living in a democratic country. So I can't agree to a position that is intensified by the intonation of a well-known economist, once a dean of the Faculty of Economics of the University of Ljubljana, an opinion leader who says for example, "Adria Airways is here for people to fly." Yeah, we're all stupid not to fly, aren't we? Everyone's on Adrio Airways tomorrow and we're flying, aren't we? And I was just thinking, and I'm pretty sure today that Adria Airways is an economic society. And we know what the mission of an economic society is. Nor can I agree that it is absolutely necessary to say the rate of saving and the rate of borrowing and spending. It wasn't exactly said that, but something in this context. Also because we are in a democratic country, we also have so-called housing parties fighting for only one part of the population of the Slovenian population, Slovenian citizens and citizens. Well, New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we fight for everything. Not only for pensioners, but also for pensioners, in order to enable young people to work first, to pay contributions to pensioners. For whom do we pay our contributions today? Again, for your bills? No, for the pensioners, and that's fine. That's right. Because we have a system of intergenerational co-existence, and Christian Democrats support it. And since I now landed with young people, allow me a few weeks ago to witness at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia how students, young entrepreneurs, groups of students, how they created the company. [[...]] They didn't formally register it, but everything else worked the way the company had to. I was surprised, delighted. If I hadn't, I wouldn't be talking about it here in Parliament. And I remember the student Veronica of the Skofi Classic High School, who told me about the values they perceived, and who they would also stand for in advance when they designed their student company. They were doing some kind of ecological cosmetics. Among other things, she said that value savings and entrepreneurship are, among other things, that she realized that if you wanted to earn something, you had to work, and the last thing was to do well. I was thrilled. This was a project carried out within the framework of the international non-profit organization Junior Achievment-Young Enterprise, which has its own position in Slovenia. In Europe, almost 3.5 million students or students in 39 countries are involved in this organisation’s projects, and worldwide it is said that around 10 million students from 120 countries are involved in this organisation. On the one hand, I was thrilled to see these young people representing their businesses, and on the other hand, I was disappointed, because despite the invitation, there was no one at this presentation of young people, i.e. businesses, young entrepreneurs, from the Ministry of Education and Education. The reasons are familiar to me, and now is not the time to discuss them. Today's theme, colleagues and colleagues, citizens and citizens is extremely important. The National Assembly shall have all the competence to work from the moment the credentials are confirmed to Members, until the time when the new composition of the National Assembly is not confirmed. And it would be good to make an effort, as we did in coordinating when we talked about the provisions of fiscal law, but simply the government fell asleep here, it didn't matter to her. Apparently today the government is working with the president on completely different projects, this is a campaign, this is a new party and so on, at the expense of taxpayers. At the expense of the taxpayers. And the debt, as before, I think my colleague Shircelj said, if I calculate the rate of indebtedness – yes, it is still a little higher than EUR 1 million per hour. One million euros an hour is the rate of indebtedness of the government of Alenka Bratušek. And we once said, "Alenka Bratusek is an expert in finance." Yeah, that's true, but when public finances are run by someone else, she can't lead them, because then we get to that debt rate. Here we need Members and Members to have before us our young generation, our families, our unemployed, who are yesterday, today, and also tomorrow will unfortunately lose their jobs, including those of Mura's workers who have lost their jobs. But the burden of this debt, these are interest, will be on their shoulders. And that's the problem. And when we look here, we are now somewhere at 80% of gross domestic product, as far as our debt is concerned – if we do nothing, we will be at 85% in 2020. That's what the graphs show, that's what the projections show, which are real. And this is what I and New Slovenia – Christian Democrats are deeply concerned about. In fact, in these approximately 455 days, this government did not present any concept of a way out of the crisis. I repeat myself several times, and also insist that the economy and the economists will be the ones who will pull Slovenia out of the economic and financial crisis. But politics must create an appropriate environment for this, and the economy must not be hampered. And unionists also need to understand their mission. We say: yes unionists, yes union movements, but not at the expense of jobs. For a new development paradigm New Slovenia – Christian Democrats have answers, we have answers for the future. We've put a lot of money into this in the last six months. This is a programme based on the economic programme and for successful Slovenia, for a successful economy in Slovenia, new jobs need indisputably low taxes, simple procedures and an open economy. Maybe now someone will say: oh, look, the first words mean neo – low taxes n, simple procedures e and an open economy o. We are not neoliberals, but we are Christian Democrats, and Christian democratic economic policy is a social market economy based on justice, freedom and security. And we have often talked about reducing public sector employment, reducing public sector wages and so on and so forth. Rarely, however, we may never have talked about optimizing processes that run in the public sector, perhaps especially in the state administration, processes that must be a good service for citizens. New Slovenia also has solutions for this. We named them digital Slovenia. We are under-applying for our purposes, for the purpose of citizens, using information and communication technologies. I recently read somewhere that there are more mobile phones in the world right now than toothbrushes. Frapant tax. And it's true, the future? It'll be digital. The world is becoming digital, and whoever does not follow this development will simply not, will not, nor will the country. Why don't we do, if I'm already in the toothbrushes, tooth brushes that would collect data from the oral cavity and automatically send it to my doctor or dentist? Maybe this moment feels futuristic. Trust me, tomorrow's gonna be a reality. In Slovenia there were already many, many things said about the information society, but not enough done. And here I return to concrete measures, to young people, to youth employment. You know that in Europe, we have, I stress, the Digital Agenda for Europe adopted in Europe, which is actually an integral part of Europe's strategy, the European 2020 strategy, and here we have fantastic opportunities in Slovenia. If we would like to realize all that we ourselves have adopted in the Digital Agenda for Europe in Slovenia, then we will, by 2016, by tomorrow, need the new 3 000 ICT engineers. We need 3,000 of them! However, we finance various educational programs and then young people experience depression when they become virtually unemployed by their diploma, when they are awarded a diploma. Of course, the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Management in the Economic and Monetary Union between the 25 members of the European Union, signed in Brussels on 2 March 2012, is behind today's central content. I think it would be good for Members and Members to read this Treaty to understand today's content or this proposal for fiscal law. It is therefore a Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in the Economic and Monetary Union. The main purpose of this international treaty is to strengthen the economic and monetary union through greater public financial discipline, through greater public financial discipline. For their implementation, the Treaty introduces a requirement for the introduction of public financial rules at national level, requirements for closer coordination of economic policies and an agreement on enhanced governance of the euro area. On the Committee on European Union Affairs and, of course, on other committees as parent labour, we are doing a lot of work with stability, coordination and governance in economic and monetary policy. I am sorry that many times this matter goes past us without really being aware of what content we are talking about. And, of course, it is no wonder that Eurosceptics are also emerging in the National Assembly and point to Brussels, instead of taking advantage of all that the European Union offers for Slovenia, because we are also the European Union and are also the same resources as the founding members of the European Union, for large countries, also available for Slovenia. Only a few efforts need to be made — for every matter needs to be made — and this needs to be used for the benefit of citizens and citizens of our country, which we, as a member of the European Union, are actually served on a platter. As I have already mentioned, the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will support this bill in their first reading. We are ready to cooperate in order to further optimize this text. But it may be at this very time that we will have the will to pass this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u32	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party and I have always personally supported the entry of the fiscal rule into the constitution and, of course, we expected the government of Alenka Bratušek to prepare an implementing law that should be drawn up in November. When the Slovenian Democratic Party adopted the fiscal rule and the constitution, it proved to be a party to the principle, and it was not a party to the double criteria, especially because we supported it both in the government and after we were the opposition party, and we kept our word. And I really don't understand customers and individuals that you don't advocate the entry of a fiscal rule or the adoption of an implementing law. The fiscal rule and implementing law are the only tools and only protection for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to protect themselves from enormous debt either from the left or from the right. And we have this enormous debt at the time of the government of Borut Pahor and the government of Alenka Bratušek. When the mandate of the government of Janez Janša ended in 2008, Slovenia was in charge of about 22% of the gross domestic product. Then came Mr Borut Pahor and Mrs Alenka Bratušek, and this debt came to over 82% of the gross domestic product. I personally do not see the task as problematic in the event that Slovenia is in charge of projects that open new jobs or create additional revenue into the budget. Both the government of Borut Pahor and the government of Alenka Bratušek were responsible for something else entirely, for maintaining privileges and maintaining some quasi-social transfers. In doing so, however, it should be pointed out that unemployment has increased enormously. Fiscal rule is not evil. Fiscal rule is essential because it will protect generations from breaking Slovenia. And if you expect anyone to go to this year's elections, these are the younger generations, because the younger generations should worry about where the government of Alenka Bratušek and the government of Borut Pahor have brought Slovenia into debt for four or five succeeding generations. And by the adoption of a law that has been passed, which is, by the way, absolutely necessary, I don't see this panic, that pensions and everything else are going to go down, that it's going to be some kind of sand-in-the-eye, and it's going to be a fraud. It is probably not in anyone’s interest — that he can continue with untransparent indebtedness, with privilege responsibilities, and we do not know what else. I believe that this coalition has played citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia – Positive Slovenia, Social Democrats, National List, DeSUS. For if this implementing law had been adopted, as provided for in the Constitution and the law, in November, they could not have led to such a headless debt. On the other hand, why were you in debt? On the one hand, we have 1.1 billion tax debt and about half a billion unpaid contributions, totalling 1.6 billion euros. Or it would not have been more meaningful to deal with this, but not to burden citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and the economy with new and new taxes, generations, four and five more, but you owe enormously. And today, Slovenia is already paying more than a billion euros in interest on 8 billion euros in revenue. This is a situation which the European Commission also draws attention to incoherently. But the language of the European Commission is spoken today by all economists in Slovenia and the general public. I really don't understand here, but because today it's the first reading of this law, when certain details are given to correct, that certain parliamentary groups have already rejected the adoption of this implementing law when presenting their views and will not allow this law to go to another reading. But this implementing law will have to be adopted as soon as possible. What are the plans, what are the thoughts of those who so vehemently reject this matter, I don't understand, but it probably suits someone that one part can be indebted to untransparent and, of course, to preserve certain privileges. If we were at least in charge of investments, for projects that create new jobs or create additional revenue in the budget, I would understand that, but far from that. We have often listened to how Slovenia receives money cheaply, how the interest rates on Slovenian bonds have fallen, but this is not due to the government of Alenka Bratušek, this is the credit of the European Central Bank, which has lowered the key interest rate to the lowest historical level, and all interest on European countries' bonds is falling due to this measure. Why haven't we committed ourselves to the ESM for the purposes of the resolution of the banking system? This debt would be significantly cheaper than in the open market. As for the government of Alenka Bratusek, she was in debt on a closed market, untransparent. Those are the questions. Today, banks do not finance the economy, but on the other hand, we get information that Slovenian banks own around EUR billion of deposits at the European Central Bank in a hundred percent state. I think it is time, time for elections, time for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to take time and look at what happened in the past period, what the promises of certain parties were and where Slovenia was brought mainly by the government of Borut Pahor and the government of Alenka Bratušek, together with the coalition. It should be noted that Slovenia was on the ground of global competitiveness at the end of the government mandate of Janez Janša in 2008. Then Borut Pahor and Alenka Bratušek arrived, and Slovenia is now in 55th place. Once again, I call upon all those Members and Members who have decided at a given time not to support this law to reconsider. I am convinced that the fiscal rule alone has ensured for citizens and citizens that neither the right nor the left government in power will incur enormous debt to the inhabitants. And I think that this should be the pressure of citizens and citizens as well, and that they will also be able to reward these matters at the upcoming early state elections on 13 July. I think it will prove here that the SDS is party to principles, not party to double morals or double words.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The next one will have the word of Dr. Ljubica Jelusic. Let's get Marka Pavlisic ready for her, mag. Andrej Vizjak, Jasmina Opec, Just Bevk and Mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u34	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Nice hello to you all! I am one of those who respect the Constitution and who think that what we have set with the Constitution must also be respected. The question is, however, whether what we have written in the Constitution is written in a way that prevents the functioning of the present or the future governments. Therefore, whether Article 148 of the Constitution is written in such a way that the future government, which will have to adopt the 2015 budget or the 2015 budget rebalancing, cannot do so because it does not have an implementing law before it to comply with the fiscal rule. I think that the Constitution and Article 148 have made it clear enough for each government to act in adopting budgets and in respecting the alignment of revenue with expenditure. Here is the question: whether it is important and necessary to hurry now by adopting an implementing law on fiscal rules, or just before the elections, we must do so because we owe it to the year that has passed since the introduction of the relevant article into the Constitution, or whether it is possible to wait with this law and leave it to the next majority, the constitutional majority in the National Assembly, who will have significantly more legitimacy to adopt such a law than we now have. For at this moment we are a disbanded state council, and the government that works with us is the government that does the running business. I agree with what some say that in one year since the adoption of the Golden Rule into the Constitution, there has been enough time to pass the implementing law. But I think there are several reasons that speak against the adoption of the implementing law at this time. I will describe these reasons both at the level of our current state situation and at the level of the situation in the European Union or the European Parliament. First of all, why do I think that in a domestic situation now we are not legitimate enough to adopt such a law? Firstly, because it needs constitutional support, there are at least 60 votes for implementation. This means, in all likelihood, the coherence of almost all parliamentary parties and the support of all parliamentary parties to all the solutions that will be in this implementing law on the fiscal rule. Secondly, this law will, by content, represent a policy in the field of economy and finance of this country for a number of years to come. If we are talking about the medium-term balance of public finances, then it should be anticipated that for at least the next seven years, our economic policy will have to be drawn up by this law. I think that the composition of our National Assembly at this time is not one to be able to talk about what our country's 7-year economic policy should look like in the future, but it will have to be left to the new composition of the National Assembly and this economic policy for the next 7 or probably for several years to be carefully thought together. That is why I think that this law must be adopted by both the government and the National Assembly with full powers. The second level that we need to take into account at this time is the level of European policy. First of all, I would like to point out that we are talking about a document in which we have European countries written down how we should behave in financial policy, and this is the Stability and Growth Pact. The Stability and Growth Pact says that countries must ensure that their deficit does not exceed 3% and that their debt in GDP does not exceed 60%. A number of these figures have already been mentioned in the debate so far, and these different numbers have also been interpreted several times. As the Pahor's government has been mentioned several times, I would like to point out that the Pahor's government, in 2011, when preparing the 2012 budget, predicts that the percentage of debt in GDP will be 48% in 2012. The Stability and Growth Pact provides for a maximum of 60%; the current average is 90% in the European Union today. Some countries that are considered to be more important decision makers within the European Union – for example, Italy has 133% of debt in GDP. The average is thus 90%. Therefore, Slovenia is still below the European average at this time with slightly over 80% of the debt in GDP. However, I do not say that this is good, so 80% of the debt in GDP is good data. However, I would like to point out that when we compare ourselves at European level and when we talk about the Stability and Growth Pact, our country, however, is not as bad as some of you are now trying to show. It is also true that in the Pahor government we knew very well that the cost of indebtedness in the coming years from 2012 onwards would be significantly more costly because three important reforms in 2011, from pension reform to reform of the work on black work and reform of student work. However, that you have made an important contribution to the fall of these three reforms, some of you who are here today advocating the implementing law on the Golden Rule, and you know it well. So back in 2011, we knew very well that the fall of those three reforms meant more costly debt and higher costs of functioning the country in the future. And that's what you are, and they probably knew those who broke those three reforms back then, but of course that was the political effect and the overthrow of a government. The long-term impact on the development of their own country on them or, of course, did not matter to you at the time. But let me go back to the time at which European policy is at this point. If you are monitoring the creation of the new European Commission and the support that Mr Juncker is looking for right now in order to become President of the European Commission, you will see that he is in a situation where he will have to get 195 votes from the Socialists and Democrats Group on 16 July, in order to be President of the European Commission. This support will, as it all appears, under special conditions, the negotiations are going in the direction of changing the implementation of the golden fiscal rule. As the recent communications from these negotiations speak and write, the European Commission should change the policy of the Golden Rule so that large investments in public infrastructure that raise economic growth are excluded from the implementation of the Golden Rule. I think it is precisely because of these negotiations, which in fact condition future European policy, which will, for example, have some new elements, even when it comes to saving and economic development. So, at this point in time when this new European policy is yet to come, it is wiser for us in Slovenia to wait somewhat for the implementation law on the Golden Fiscal Rule, because it is an implementing law, that is, a law that means enforcement, a way to enforce the Golden Fiscal Rule, and it is not a matter of whether we respect the fiscal rule or not. We have already written a fiscal rule in our constitution. It is, however, a way to implement this either in implementing laws or in drawing up a budget. So, I point out that, at this point, Juncker can count on the support of socialists and Democrats only if he respects or changes the current policy of saving or implementing, implementing and implementing the Golden Fiscal Rule in the future European policy. And, of course, he will get support if he is prepared to negotiate in this regard, including by certain important European countries, otherwise he will not be, neither by Italy nor by France. Well, if I may sum it up. Both the situation in Slovenia at this time and the situation at European level reminds us that it is better to wait a little longer with the implementation law on fiscal rules. If we have not accepted it so far, then we can also wait after July 13 for a new government or a new national assembly to prepare it, taking into account, of course, and then some things will be clear, including what the future European policy on stability and growth will be. I would like to say that, however, it seems to me that this law, which you and your colleagues from the SDS have put into the procedure, has been written in such a way that it would certainly not be accepted. Why do I say that? Article 13 is a very important indicator as far as this is concerned. If the Stability and Growth Pact speaks of 60% of debt in GDP, and if Article 13 speaks of the debt of the country's sector, which should not exceed 45% of GDP, then it means that we tighten the rules applicable at European level to the situation we will have in our country. Secondly, if, during the adjustment period, this is generally in the coming seven years, you consider that all surpluses in the sale of public property, i.e. state property, should be given to reduce the debt of the State sector, hence that the agreement adopted in the adoption of the SDH Act, so that part of the assets sold is invested in the demographic fund, is no longer respected. So, at least two points are one that makes it very clear that you know that this law cannot be passed, and would therefore also ask yourself whether those who today claim how good this law is and how it needs to be supported seriously think that if you come into power, this law would make it easier for you to operate in autumn in the preparation of a new budget and also in the coming years. So, do you think that your operation, your administration of the country, due to such written rules as are now in this law, will be greatly facilitated and will it really lead to what you say, that is, new economic growth, start-up, development and so on? Are you, in fact, continuing with some old conservative policy of the European Commission, which was in force in 2011, when we, our country, my government, lived and supported a fiscal rule, and even at European Union level, even within the framework of a European conservative policy, have already been exceeded? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mag. Mr Andrej Shircelj on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. In any event, this debate also requires some answers on questions, particularly those raised by colleague Jelusic in this regard. Article 148 of the Constitution actually exists and we are in an unconstitutional position. The National Assembly is not disbanded, it operates with full powers. Dissolved – this is, of course, a little under the nicknames. Actually, people are already asking me if you're sitting there or if you're getting paid and so on. In short, the media has done their part here, and we all know that this national assembly will operate in this composition for as long as the new national assembly or new Members of Parliament does not arrive, with full powers. An earthquake may occur tomorrow, God forbid that, or any other natural disaster, certain laws may have to be adopted in order to remedy the situation or anything else. Therefore, it is possible for the media or the press, how we are dissolved, but so far we are all here with full powers and therefore we can adopt this law. Finally, if the Constitution has been amended by 60 votes, by a two-thirds majority, then this law can also be adopted in the same way. But when we talk about economic and financial policy for the next 7 years, the policy of the economy, finance and everything else is set for the next 7 years. The calculations of the Ministry of Finance within this working group have also been made and have done calculations of what this actually means. After all, it is also envisaged what this means within this European policy, which is actually there today. What European policy will be from mid-July is the question whether this will really happen or not. Even if investments are to be excluded from the fiscal rule, the Constitution will have to be amended. And this can be done at any time because the constitutional law or constitution also determines what is among the expenses and what is among the revenues and so on in a certain way, which means that nothing actually happens. However, I think that European policy will probably have to follow the fiscal rule also because of some other members. Here you mentioned Article 13 and Article 45% of the debt, and in relation to the fact that the average in Europe is 90%, in Italy 133% and so on. It is calculated for Slovenia that an obligation of more than 45 % is poor for Slovenia, for the first time because it is in such a and such a geostrategic situation, for the second time due to size, for the third time because it is capable of absorbing its added value or how it is able to create and then to place it on European markets. And here it is vulnerable, even because of its geographical lowness and also because of its economic and financial smallness. So, of course, this 45% is not meant to be given. We know that 60% is what Slovenia will have to achieve in the coming years and will have to reduce this debt netly, but we will see when we get there. The next question when you said that Europe 90% and Italy accounted for 133% of GDP – yes, but Italy owed 80% in Italy, which means, in other words, that the Italian State was returning annuities from loans and interest to Italian legal persons, funds, pension funds and so on and so on, and of course money remained in Italy, implemented, reinvested or re-indebted, and so on. Slovenia's debt is characterised by the need to repay it 75 % outside the country, and mostly 75% of it has to be recovered through the Atlantic to the United States – the money goes out. And if you want this money back, these investors have to come back, those who are financial investors, of course, who just lend money again for such or other interest. You know them. Goldman Sachs, JP Morgan. You also have shows about how they run the world after all. But there's no one coming here to create a new company, new jobs, and so on. It's about interest. As a result, interest will be significantly higher than today at the beginning of the year when Slovenia will have to re-indebt itself. Much higher! Of course, we can answer all these questions here. If we are talking about Borut Pahor's government and pension reform and so on - why? A fundamental reason why these reforms have fallen? Because they were incompatible with the unions, the social partners. Where then someone has joined is also a relevant issue, but these reforms have not been aligned with the unions. Unfortunately, they weren't. I am surprised that the Social Democratic Government of Borut Pahor has not aligned itself with the unions, but has not. It is strange that Janša's government aligned itself with the unions in 2006, including with regard to the change in the tax system, as well as with the Social Democrats at the time. But this one didn't. I don't know why not, but that's the way it is. And that was, of course, up to 48% of GDP, and I agree with that. Then it went up. But this is already from an economic point of view, including an economic, social, extreme border where we can be in charge. We're over 80 today, that's a disaster. Look, I understand you're disturbed by some provisions. Once again, this is a general debate. If you mention Article 13 and 45% – there is probably room for manoeuvre here, but it is necessary for the law to go to second reading and, of course, the coordination between political parties to continue there. We do not blind ourselves to the fact that we do not need consensus on your part to move this law forward, but here we work for the future development of the country and also for future generations, because it is morally disputed that future generations will pay our interest. I don't think future generations deserve that. For us to start talking now at Parliament's level on these matters, of course, it is necessary to move the law forward because until now, at the level of the government of Alenka Bratušek, political parties have not aligned themselves, as it is clear, at all the meetings they had. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Pavlišič has the following word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. I would first congratulate Mr. Chufer for not being present today to decide not to participate in this farce. Indeed, he has invested a great deal of energy in bringing this implementing law into line with the government, within the framework of the coalition and beyond, and we have also met with the opposition on this subject. The purpose was certainly good, but now obviously the Government and its former party have turned against him, so I fully understand that he does not want to participate in this farce anymore and I congratulate him on this move, for he has shown the best of his views on rejecting the implementing law on the golden fiscal rule in the National Assembly, which is meant to happen today. Some say this implementing law is too harsh. I say he's too sweet. For example, the fiscal world could also put a stick in its hands, not just a calculator, so that in case the government is doing stupid things, the fiscal council could file a constitutional indictment against the government or against the Prime Minister. I've put it in. It is clear who is voting then. But the fiscal world could have that kind of authority. And Slovenia, as far as I know, already has a fiscal council set out in the Public Finance Act, if I recall correctly. But does anyone remember that this fiscal world has ever come forward in the last few years? That he said anything about what was going on? Three years ago, since I've been here, I'm sure you haven't, which means he doesn't do his job. Under such an important law as the implementing law on the golden fiscal rule, it is only right that this little thing should be better defined in the law itself, so that we give him the weight and the instruments at his disposal to carry out his work. This would be to improve this law until the final adoption. Another matter might be interesting to write in and define a violation of the golden fiscal rule — to compare it with high treason. Indiscreet debt is an attack on the state's sovereignty. And what is an attack on the sovereignty of a country other than treason? But, as we have already said, we already have a golden fiscal rule written in the constitution, and it's already valid, and I really don't understand why the hell someone is resisting that we define it more precisely. Why is he not even willing to discuss possible solutions to support this in the first reading, and then we can improve on the committee and later readings? Perhaps even with what Mrs Jelusic said about the exception for large investments and so on. There's a lot more to be done here. But they don't even want to talk about it. Anti-cyclical and pro-cyclical activity was mentioned. When we are in the lower part of the economic cycle, it is necessary to act countercyclically while we are in the upper part as well. Makes sense. It's about as logical as if it's raining, you're wet if the sun shines, and you're hot. In fact, it's very logical, but usefully nothing. If the crisis was so simple that the country increased spending at the beginning of the crisis and then the crisis was magically over, then there would be no crisis at all. Germany, France, Austria, Spain would open tentacles at the dawn of the crisis and the crisis would be solved before it could even reach us. But how many crises will we have to survive to realize that this is not really a matter of serious work and not a serious waste? And if we look at the Slovenian balance sheets a few years ago, we will see that in those years when we went into this severe crisis, we actually spent the most, the budget deficit was far too large. And where are the results? They're gone! Look, this thing just doesn't work. We will pay about a billion euros for interest this year. Dear colleagues from DesSUS, 2 million average pensions will be paid for this year. More than 100,000 pensioners can receive an average pension for the amount of these interest throughout the year. Either two million and another 700,000 pensioners can be paid the highest amount of regression, it is said to the Slovenians and others, or to all pensioners, 600 000, we pay a thousand 600 Euro regresses for the amount of interest we will pay in this country this year. Of course, we can't get interest just overnight on nothing, but it should be our vision to stop paying interest, and we can spend that money better, spend it on education, health care, pensions, for anything else. And without a sound financial policy, we will never get to that, we will simply never get to that. And the spiral of increasing interest will slowly swallow us if we don't end it. I'm surprised to hear you object to this implementing law. Indeed, the fact is that Cufer's policy has stabilised Slovenian finances and indicated that there is a light at the end of the tunnel. Finally, this is also reflected in the current interest rate on international markets. We're at 3% right now, we've been a little bit lower, and we've gone up again, but we're swinging around here somewhere. And yes, the reason for this is not only in the financial policy of this government, but also in the wider economic environment, but it is indicated that we have gained some confidence that we can take advantage of these falls that are taking place in international markets. And this trust was built with a policy that the state has quite a few resources in the account that are available, so we are not forced into a new debt right now. There are also more of these funds in rehabilitated banks. And since it no longer consents to the political sharing of money, which was to a large extent the cause of the problems, that money is still there, in state banks. And where there is money, there are appetites for this money, and I fear that, in the background of opposition to this bill, it is only an appetite for this money to be used again as it has been spent so far. It was therefore necessary to abolish this government in essence, and it was necessary to prevent the adoption of the implementing law, and then, under the cover of national interest, you would repeat the cycle of spending, which would end with a hole in the banking system and then a new, bad, bad bank this time. Is it a coincidence that those who oppose this implementing law, at the same time, oppose the amendment of the Law on Access to Public Information, which fully opens data on bad credits? Is that a coincidence? There's no coincidence. It's business. Luusewies van der Laan said in a welcoming speech at the Congress of the Civil Gazette: "You cannot trust the Left in the management of public money, but the Right not in personal freedom." The Civil Code is the guardian of both, so we're all in the way. And yes, as we have written in the Constitution a number of personal freedoms that he cannot, say, a clerical government simply chase short wings and bikini bathrobes, not to mention anything else, we also need a record in the constitution for a reasonable public financial policy. And we got him. Accordingly, we must finally adopt an implementing law. We have to take him in today. Mr. Horvath mentioned that he had a program. I'm afraid he was helped write mags. I'd love a Pezdir. Thank you. That's a good choice. But unlike you, we have in the Civil Gazette a programme that contains 112 key measures, including experience, people with real experiences in crisis situations such as Mr Bojan Starman. And Mr. Pogačnik gave me a wonderful point. Yes, young generations would have to go to the polls to resist additional debt on their behalf. The higher the debt, the lower the age limit for electoral law. Obviously, fellow Member Pogačnik has read our programme where we stand for this, and I thank him for this mention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Only Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! The elections to the European Parliament, the referendum on archives, national elections and local elections are or will be decisively marked by this year's political developments in the country and our further development. The European elections and referendum were just a warm-up before the two most important decisions, which political forces will take power in the country and in the individual congregation. Slovenia needs economic growth that will reduce unemployment, create new jobs and ensure a decent future for its people. Only economic growth and development can ensure the realization of the development potential of Slovenia, so that it is economically successful, fair and solidarity. Until the outcome of this year's national elections is known, and as a result, which political force will form the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, it would be unrealistic to take a decision and approve the fiscal rule law. Today, a meeting of the National Assembly is forced before us, the government is running errands, and there is no solid coalition in the National Assembly. In three weeks, however, there will be elections that will significantly mix the cards on the political scene. Such an important decision requires full legitimacy, which can only be verified in elections. It would be irresponsible for Members and Members to decide on the economic policy of a new government and another parliament. The applicant’s contention that the legal text was in line with the parliamentary parties is also misleading. Although we have participated in the working group, we have never agreed with the proposed solutions to the law. The proposed fiscal rule by the SDS Social Democrats is understood as a proposal to accelerate the sale of state property and to reduce the public sector. The proposed law is also sharper than Slovenia's commitments, which were adopted by the ratification of the fiscal pact. This is recognised both by the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund. Things are changing in the European Union, and they are changing in us. All the statistics have begun to show that Slovenia is slowly but persistently driven by a persistent economic and financial crisis. In a good year, the government has achieved quite a few successes. It stabilised public finances and strengthened Slovenia's position on international financial markets. For the first time in five years, we have recorded positive economic growth. The number of unemployed also decreases, from 129 thousand to 118 thousand in six months. Let me remind you that there were 133 000 unemployed people in Slovenia in December 1993. Virtually all institutions that carry out macroeconomic forecasts have announced the growth of our economy, between 0.3% and 0.8% in 2014 and between 0.7% and 1.4% in 2015. Debt costs have also decreased significantly since the interest rate is the lowest since we entered the euro area. Before this government, which unfortunately is only doing so-called ongoing business today, we were just before it came to our aid, of course, in the nicknames, an infamous threesome. I don't know why we have to be more papal than the Pope. The new Prime Minister of Italy, Matteo Renzi, is aware that such a fiscal rule is harmful to the recovery of the economy and has therefore come up with an initiative to amend the European Union's fiscal rule. This initiative is carried out by Italy, which began to chair the European Union in June. Are we smart enough to join this initiative? That is exactly what the new German subchannel Sigmar Gabriel is giving, which supports changes to such a fiscal rule as is now in force. As it is said, we will not support the fiscal rule law in the Group of Social Democrats and ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The next one's gonna be talking about mag. Ivan Vogrin. Allow me to read a few more of the following debaters, because they have quite a turnout. To Ivan Vogrin's mag. Branko Grims, then Dr. Joseph Kunič, Mrs. Sonja Ramšak, Robert Hrvat and Mag. Majda Potter. Here you go, Mr. Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! My debate will be a little less electoral and a little bit more numerical. In fact, the Independent Alternative doesn't go to the polls, so there's no need to do election advertising. But before each election, usually the unbridled one or those politicians always goes mad and starts throwing out lunar statements that we are witnessing to today. I am the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia 7. 2. 2014 sent a letter inviting her to be late for several months by entering the fiscal rule. And look, today we're actually witnessing a really tragic situation. Fiscal rule, implementing law should be adopted by the end of November 2013. And today we are listening to philosophical discussions here, if you would not, why would you. And we, at the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly, adopted a law with which we made a commitment, here we committed ourselves to adopting by the end of November 2013. Now, here I am, I don't know. Look, I used to be a member of the Volicina Fire Company for about eight years. [[...]] I now compare two and a half years of Parliament and this fire company. You know, if we wrote down a conclusion in this fire company to do something, we did. This means that every fire company works better and more normally than this Parliament. We're talking here: why rush? What's the rush if we're eight months late?Oh, my God! We made a commitment to do this. You know, you really don't know if you'd cry or laugh or anything. Now we even refer to the European Parliament, which, of course, will probably work in the future by saying: nothing has to be done economically anymore, we can spend three times more than we create, even companies can spend three times more than they can create – and where are we? Proposers or any member of parliament who has this power — if I had this power as a Member of my own, I would have already prepared it — should write a constitutional accusation to the entire government because they have not done what they have committed, and they lie, lie, and argue in their pocket that we are saving to do some reforms, but we are not doing anything other than in debt. We're in debt! Now, I must say so, I must congratulate those of you who have found the courage to run for office in these elections. What are you gonna say when you walk the field, what did we do? Raise taxes, owe, lower pensions, lower wages, increase unemployment. What are you gonna say? And what are you going to say about what we're going to do or what you're going to do in the next Parliament? Nothing. A little extra debt and so on. So you really have to ask yourself, does it even make sense to say anything else, but for the salary we get, you have to at least feel like you've done something. And now that I'm writing a book, maybe I'll write my own speech in there and yours. So this will be a very interesting book, analytically done, what we did for two and a half years — nothing good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u43	Thank you very much. You've used this a little bit to promote your book. Mrs. Sweetheart, please, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Because my friend is a magician. Vogrin wanted to say that it is not good to refer here to the European Parliament, because it is our job to introduce a fiscal rule through law, I would like to point out that the Social Democrats do not oppose the fiscal rule because it is enshrined in the Constitution, and the European Parliament will not oppose the fiscal rule because there has already been agreement at the level of the European Council and this is enshrined in the Stability and Growth Pact and another important European document. But it's a question of implementation. The European Parliament and the new European policy revolve around how to implement, i.e. how to enforce the golden fiscal rule in the future and not whether to have it or not. And we in Slovenia no longer talk about whether or not we would have this fiscal rule. It is, however, a question of how to implement it in our current and future economic situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u45	Thank you very much. There's no replica on the replica, Mr. Vogrin. The next one's gonna be talking about mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u46	Good-bye to all of you! This debate is really great today. That's great, because in three weeks, people will know who they're dealing with. Indeed, the discussions of the type "we will not support this today", as we hear from the entire transition left, say – what if we translate them into Slovenian? He said, "We whistle at the constitution." For in the constitution a fiscal rule is already written, and the covenant is written, that within six months it will also be fulfilled, by the adoption of an appropriate law. Those six months were the time to think about how to implement this fiscal rule, as mentioned earlier by the SD Member. Then this time is up. And he who says today that he will not uphold the law says only this: I whistle at the constitution, I have knowingly violated it, and I will knowingly violate it today. And such a person does not deserve to be in the last world of the local community, let alone in the Slovenian Parliament. And his client, too, there will be no misunderstanding. Because that's the problem we're facing today. As the founder of Parliament, this Parliament has adopted a commitment, a commitment at the constitutional level, which therefore binds everyone and everyone and, above all, the National Assembly itself. For 6 months, it was time for all solutions to be coordinated, to write and adopt unanimously adopted solutions to the law. Then the Constitution would be respected. After six months, nothing happened. In the opposition, we warned that this is not the way it works, we got arrogant statements and nothing. But we were witnesses to what? New spending; about this a little later. That is why this law was not really accepted. So that it was wasted and burdened the next generation, the Slovenian economy, destroyed entrepreneurship and led people to their possessions and difficulties. Human well-being becomes something imaginary for generations with the work of the transition left. And that's because he's consciously violating the Constitution. In the constitution, once again, there is a very clear commitment – a 6-month deadline. Six months was the time for all reflections, for all coordination, for all that had to be done. That the parody was perfect, let me remind you that we had already discussed the fiscal rule in 2012 and that we had already agreed on every letter of law that would have made it happen. Mrs Alenka Bratušek was with her at the time, and I was myself, on behalf of the SDS. And with every sentence Mrs. Alenka Bratušek agreed at the time. You won't believe every word of it. We have sat together for so long, we have shaved the text that Mrs Alenka Bratušek agreed with every word of the law. But when it had to be accepted, she said, "We won't accept it." Then she went to talk to Mrs Merkel and, on behalf of the transitional left or her government, the ruling coalition said, "The fiscal rule in the constitution is only through my body." Then she came back from Mrs. Merkel and said, "Oh, dear, the fiscal rule is something wonderful, we must accept it immediately." Apparently, Mrs Merkel is very good at wiggling a broom when it comes to teaching a girl what time it is and not much about the economy. But you know what happened right now? In fact, at this point, there's already a three-way that says she's gone. You brought her here. Because that's basically exactly what this is. And then we wrote into the constitution a text that we all agreed was right, and it says nothing but what every farmer, every entrepreneur, every housewife knows – that you can't spend more than you have because you're burdening the next generation. That's all. Of course, it is still necessary to adopt a law on how to implement this rule. Not only have you done nothing, but you've been wasting your time like crazy. Do you know where you brought this poor Slovenia into just two governments of the transition left? In 2008, Slovenia's external debt was still good at 7 billion, with everything inherited from the common debt of the former Yugoslavia. Then came the government of Borut Pahor and the government of Alenka Bratušek, two governments of the transitional left. And today it amounts to almost EUR 30 billion, of which over 20 billion is a net new debt from the two governments of the transition left. Because the transition left can't do anything but spend. He can't create, he can pull people by the nose, because he has media in his hands, and of course he can spend. And it places its burden, its inability to manage the economy, on the next generation. The trick he uses is the same every time. And today all you need to know is that it doesn't matter if you vote for the SD in elections, whether you vote for Cerar, or any other party to the transition left from Positive Slovenia forward, you will always get exactly the same policy of indebtedness, opposition to the fiscal rule and conscious violation of the Slovenian Constitution that we are witnessing today in the Slovenian Parliament. And this is a policy that should never enter the Slovenian Parliament at all. Such a policy would not have entered any democratic parliament of this world if there were some democratic principles that unfortunately do not apply in Slovenia and are played again every day. And if we want the country to breathe once full of lungs, if we want to take a serious step towards decommissioning the Slovenian economy, Slovenian entrepreneurship, to open up new high-performance jobs, we need to adopt that self-restraint rule that is known by every household – that you cannot spend more than you create. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is what we're talking about today. And some of you today swear not to support it. That's great! That'll tell you how to run this country. I will, of course, vote for this rule myself, and I will always respect it consistently, because this is the only way to make of this beloved Slovenia what we once were – an example for the entire post-socialist bloc. And there is absurdity in Slovenia because it is offered as a solution to new socialism and I don't know what, state property, but I don't know what nonsense we're listening to as a solution. This has not been a solution anywhere in the world and it will not be in Slovenia either. There is no problem in Slovenia that there is not enough socialism. In Slovenia, the problem is that it is only socialism. This is a problem in Slovenia. And that leads to debt, and this debt is what is already suffocating us and which will choke anyone who has the next government. God forbid people make up their minds, but people are always right, no matter what they decide. But if we decide again and choose the transition left, let's say they're really going to fall in and vote for Cerar, which is fashion right now – you know what that means? That we will probably have this conversation in this House in a few years, but then Slovenia will be in charge – how much? 35 or 50 billion euros? Somewhere. And it's going to be a completely bankrupt country. Then there will be no more debate about whether the three is here or the three is there, it doesn't matter at all. Such a country is not sovereign, and you know it. What about the sovereignty of such a country, however, has proved to be an excellent feature of this fiscal rule. When the President of the Government tells you when she's on her way to Mrs Merkel, the most influential European at this point, the most influential woman in the world by some measurements, and says, "Fiscal rule only through my body." He comes back and says, "Jesus, we have to adopt a fiscal rule urgently, that's something wonderful." So much for the sovereignty of such a country, and about throwing sand in the eyes, as much as such sovereignty still means. And that's where you brought this country, ladies and gentlemen. You brought the three of you here a long time ago, just around the bend, in a more expensive way. Now you're making a fool out of people here and you're saying you won't support something that you've committed yourself to with the constitutional law that you voted for. And of course we voted, too, but we voted in good faith that we will also respect this agreement. It is the responsibility of the Government and the ruling coalition, in the first place. Since this has not done its job, we have proposed an appropriate solution in the SDS. And it is amazing that today, instead of discussing solutions, we may be looking for some kind of compromise, some of which we are talking about categorically rejecting. This, once again, translated into Slovenian means nothing more than to say the following: we want to spend, we are going to spend, we are going to burden the next generation, we are going to whistle at the constitution, we have consciously violated it, and we are going to consciously violate it. That's what you tell people today. And it is nice to see you see what the Slovenian transitional left really is – what will get this country into a ditch or literally destroy it. And to a large extent, you've already done it. And that, by the way, is the only thing you've done. Once again, in only two governments of the transition left, the new net debt exceeded EUR 20 billion. This is significantly more than the total commitment of the entire former Yugoslavia. That's why you don't want to pass the fiscal rule to spend any further because that's all you know. Do you know what that means in practice? That this government has already launched a good middle-class car into a wall and burned it, and the child will never ride with it, but he will have to pay for it. Every four-member Slovenian family has thrown a can of gasoline into an apartment, burned it down, and this apartment will never be seen, will never live in it, but will be able to pay for it. This is about €56,58 000 in debt to the four-member family in Slovenia created by the transitional left. And once again, it doesn't matter if you vote for SD, or for Cerar, or for Positive Slovenia, or for Bratuška, or for any of the transition left, you will always get the same people, the same policy, the same debt, and the same bankruptcy of the country of Slovenia. It will be necessary to look for solutions that are European comparable, which are economically successful, which are verified, and then to make the right decision. But first of all, it is necessary to have a program, and one of the most absurd situations, exactly the same absurdity that we have here today, is that it is the most popular party that doesn't even have a program. This says a lot about where this media scene has brought our poor Slovenia to, that all values have been placed on its head, because if they were not, I say that no one in this House would even think about getting up and saying: for six months we are consciously violating the constitution, but we will continue to do so today, so that we can spend our lives on the next generation. Because that's basically what you said when you said you weren't going to confirm the fiscal rule law that we've been behind for six months, all together. But we've done our part. You do the same. In politics, they don't count words, they count acts.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The replica is made by Mrs. Ljubica Jelusic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u48	Thank you very much. I object to that mag. Grimes puts us in the language of the Social Democrats to break the Constitution by not adopting the law proposed by the SDS. We respect the Constitution and have also participated in the incorporation of the fiscal rule into the Constitution. The self-limiting rule is enshrined in the constitution. Today, however, we are talking here about the implementing law, which is how to set procedures for the implementation of the Golden Fiscal Rule, which does not limit any government to the fact that a fiscal rule, which is a constitutional rule, respects every time it makes up budgets in the future. In short, don't put things on our tongue that we didn't say. And secondly, you can argue with us sitting here, and right now we're just two to the left. Maybe there's someone else on the left here, and he hasn't gone to the debate with you yet. You're dealing with those who don't have programs at the moment, and we don't know what their views are about the golden fiscal rule and much more. And most of them are probably in this country. In short, don't take us for the problems of the entire government. There are few of us here who listen to the three SDS Members when they discuss their marriage. If I were that good, then you would probably also ensure a slightly greater presence of members of your parliamentary group in this debate here today. And one more thing I'd like to point out is what you and some of your other colleagues were talking about today. You're talking about the government of Borut Pahor and Alenka Bratusek. There was another government, the government of John Janša. I said earlier on purpose that the Borut Pahor government, when preparing the 2012 budget, would say that the country's debt would be 48% of GDP. Tell us what was the country's debt in GDP when Janez Janša left the government in early 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Grimes has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u50	Thank you. On the one hand, we could, on the other hand, give recognition to both SD Members, because given how they have drawn up their list, there is a high probability that at least one of them will not meet with us anymore, which is a shame. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u51	Procedural proposal, Mr Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u52	That's procedural, Madam Vice President. The second is that a replica is intended for someone who has not taken the words of someone else well to explain it rather than to argue with what or what someone has actually been talking about. In saying that the absurdity is perfect: if the honourable Member had listened to me carefully, I would have known that my words were even more addressed to those without the program and that I had said that this was one of the greatest absurdities in Slovenia, or that moment perhaps the greatest, most fatal absurd, I used that very word, and I said that it is the same when today there is a constitutional commitment that some consciously violate for six months, saying that it will not continue to be respected. That's very sad. Unfortunately, this tells a great deal about the development prospects of the country of Slovenia, if this does not change. Unless the general political culture changes once again and all constitutional principles are fully realized, including those on equal access to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u53	Don't argue, Mr. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u54	for information. [[...]] I'm just making an explanation and a procedural proposal. Madam Vice-President, I wish you a successful leadership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u55	Thank you so much for those wishes. We will continue the debate. He'll be the first to propose mags. Andrey Shircelj, after him mag. Majda Potter. Just a minute. Ah, immediately after Mr. Shircle, Mrs. Ramšak gets the word. I'm sorry. We've got a few cancellations, so it's hard to know each other. Here you go, Mr. Shircel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u56	Thank you very much. If you are against the implementing law, you are against the fiscal rule and you are violating the constitution because the constitution states that within 6 months an implementing law must be made, absolutely clear. We've been waiting for you, the Social Democrats, to prepare him to invest him because the government you're in isn't there. So there's no question. We have warned about all of this, and that is why it is as it is if you are not here to talk about it at this level. Because you're not up for even talking about certain solutions that bother you. Three or four are bothering you. We said we could talk about this, which is why the law is also a public debate. That's one thing. Another matter – what Mr Bevk said. I never said that the law was aligned with the working group, that's a lie. Third thing. Nowhere does it say that this will reduce the public sector, because it also talks about it. There's no direct connection here. However, the public sector cannot operate on the basis of debts, indebtedness to future generations. There's no mention of privatisation. But even with regard to privatisation itself, the president of the National Assembly, when we were talking about the holding law, was talking about treason. So don't give any lies here, some words that weren't actually pronounced here on my part. The European Commission and the International Monetary Fund also have nothing against this law, and they support it and, of course, make certain proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sonja Ramshak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Government, who is not here, or representatives of the government, especially the Minister of Finance! As this debate takes place today, I must say that I am pleased that Mrs Yulushič has given me some extraordinary points. By the way, you said we were imitating you because you didn't respect the Constitution. On 31 May last year, we adopted the Constitutional Act amending Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which adopted a constitutional law that enshrined this golden fiscal rule in the Constitution. It is true that a two-thirds majority has been reached, that Members and Members of the then existing coalition have supported this constitutional law. But you obviously supported him with a fig in his pocket. Why? Because you had the opportunity to say that within six months it is impossible to pass a law implementing a golden fiscal rule. And you could make an amendment, and you would probably agree — if you said you needed 10 months, it could be 10 months. But it has been going on for over a year now, and even today you will not listen to why the Slovenian Democratic Party has tabled this law. Not because of the elections and not because of the pirates and the like, but because we already adopted the 2014 budget balance last year and the 2015 budget, we pointed out that you are not actually acting in accordance with what we wrote in the constitution, it is said that it is necessary to balance both the revenue and the expenditure of the country. And that's when we warned you that in the budget you're showing incomes that are unrealistic. Let me just remind you of the property tax. And what happened? At the time we had not even adopted the Real Estate Tax Act, when you adopted it, but in fact we found that you had adopted an unconstitutional law, which again means that you did not respect the Constitution. And today we can talk again about a number of other violations of the Constitution. I am grateful to the representatives of the National Gazette for their support of this law, and I am sure that if you had not, when you had destroyed the government of Janez Janša and given up your financial minister, Mr Šuštersič, that we would have this implementing law on the table today long ago and that we would have acted accordingly. But what was the goal of the coalition at that time, including the National Lists, and also all those who are now in the decomposing coalition, which is why we are going to the early elections – thank God, because in one year you were able to charge this country for an additional 8 billion euros, so that we do not forget the EUR 8 billion at the time of the Pahor government. And why was it necessary to overthrow the government of John Janša? Because you were aware that what we were about to do would come true. This means balancing the budget or the revenue and expenditure of the state budget so that we cannot be indebted at the expense of future generations or at the expense of our children. It has happened that in the time of the former Pahor government we have actually increased unemployment from 56,000 to something over 120 thousand unemployed people and that today we are going around 125 to 130 000, which means that no new jobs are created. Why not? Because we don't have economic growth. But the governments that run the country and also Parliament are the ones that create the conditions for the functioning of the economy. And if we create conditions for the functioning of the economy, we will create new jobs. But not those jobs that bring only minimal personal income, but those with added value, or if someone works to earn enough to survive himself and his family, but not to stand almost daily at the Red Cross, Karitas, or any other humanitarian organization, seeking help in food, clothing, school supplies and so on. What did you say when the government was John Janša? You spat on the ZUJF, and you yourself gave Europe what the then government of Janez Janša had already done with the stabilisation programme. You are extending the time limits of the measures covered by the ZUJF. And today, when we talk about the adoption of the Golden Fiscal Rule Act, it would be right for everyone to imagine. We're not in trouble, at least I don't think so. And the President of the National Assembly made it clear that we have full powers until the new Parliament takes place. The government does not have them, but Parliament is working with full powers. And with full responsibility, we owe it to citizens and citizens to ensure that we carry out our work until the last day of our term. But nothing comes to your ears, not a year ago, not six months ago, not today. I apologize to my fellow citizens and those who support the adoption of this law. Today you have the opportunity to correct your mistakes, to let the law go forward and to correct together what does not suit you or what you feel should be improved. That's why we're here to sit down, amend, propose and reach consensus. But if we continue to owe ourselves unreasonablely, beyond the limits of ability, then I really don't know what else is coming after us – total bankruptcy of the country, total bankruptcy of the political system, not to say anything else. And that is why, dear colleagues and colleagues, as Mr Vogrin said, does not know what we will say to those who run in the upcoming elections – I will not promise anything because the party does not promise, but offers a programme, and this programme will be implemented by the Slovenian Democratic Party. Yes, Mrs Potrata, that is because we are fulfilling our commitments because we have a clear vision and objectives. Although the path to these goals may sometimes be somewhat murky, the goals are finally achieved. This is good for all citizens and citizens. I will definitely uphold the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr. Pavlisic has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. It has been said that we support this law in truth. Of course we support him, but even more than that, we are actually the authors of this law. You're the one who just filed this. I'll say more. We're even authors. Not only do we support this. In order for this to be accepted if the government of John Janša did not fall –faithfully, then the opposition did not allow itself to be persuaded to support it. Only then, with the entry into the new government, did the treasury take place in the part of this coalition, and they supported it. So we were able to do it by entering the constitution. Part of the opposition had not experienced this sorcery since then. Why did the government of John Janša have to fall? In fact, because of the European Commission's new recommendation in recent recommendations, due to the latter, due to the fight against corruption. You do understand that, don't you?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u61	Thank you. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. If we were to think responsibly and if we were to be aware of our powers and of what would happen after the dissolution of Parliament, then responsible politicians and politicians should act self-restrictedly and invest only in those laws that are governed by consensus and would result in irreparable consequences for the failure to adopt laws. Counting on the fact that a law for which a two-thirds majority is required in less than a month before the elections will achieve the required majority is overturned because I do not attribute naivety to the proposers of this law. That is why I am saying that this law, which needs a two-thirds majority, is now turned upside down because it is another in a series of opportunities when it is possible to beat its political competitors and report back to them for a decade what they have not done. The talk was about the same. Which ones can we talk about? Only those who run on the SDS list will be the same Members and Members as in this reference. In all other cases it is impossible to talk about the same, because the party of Social Democrats has its representatives, with its candidates in the elections, and these are not the same people as those with whom the Positive Slovenia will perform. For I strongly oppose the idea that all politicians are the same. Not all politicians are the same. Some just think that they are excellent, that they are never wrong, and that this world will be good when it is regulated as they imagine it must be. We have been listening all the time to how the majority electoral system would solve all the problems of this country. Let's see. I believe that the SDS rings after the Orbanization of the Slovenian state, I believe. But then in their own – what they call what they are not promises, but the program – they say what the left will do and they list things that I don't even know how they got them. Among other things, they predict changes to the Constitution on such matters, which as far as I recall in the National Assembly have not been discussed at all so far. How someone looks at the delayed or delayed time of adoption of the implementing law as a fundamental error to be so demonized – I would only ask what people who started to apply for compensation yesterday should think. That's all I'm asking. Answer those who proposed constitutional laws because you thought it was impossible to sign a referendum on constitutional laws. And we could have each other here in a row right now. Let us just remember in 2008 what all SDS adopted in the pre-election period and what financial obligations this imposed on the new government. Yesterday we heard from the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government a lot about when the biggest debts arose, when the banking system actually got what you call a bank hole. But it's like he doesn't touch anyone! The SDS is clean, perfect and can best lead this country, and the government of Borut Pahorje and the government of Alenka Bratušek did not happen to the government of Ivan Janša. And when we read the recommendations of the European Union, they read everything else, but only that the European Union is once again pointing to corruption as a fundamental problem, they ignore it. They're despicable! Because they don't have corruption. Oh, no! Let's go look at the attitude towards the judiciary. Who has the most pressing charges? Someone who doesn't accept court rulings. That's a funny story. An ambitious attitude towards the judicial branch of power, and we could still talk. But to claim that we are against the Constitution because of this bill, which is written on purpose so that it cannot be supported, on purpose! This then reveals policies that do not promise the country development. Only if I remember what educational policy one of the debaters was predicting, but then I am really worried about this country. This law cannot be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u63	Thank you. According to the panel review, yes, yes, I just wanted to point out that Mr. Shircelj will be right behind Jozet Tank. [[...]] Okay. So the next debater is Mr Tanko, and then the proposer is because the government is not.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When I listened to the discussions of some masters and doctors of various sciences on a live basis — and earlier on the screen — it will probably be necessary to take some initiative to nominate them at the Faculty of Economics in Ljubljana for some Kidric award. Otherwise, it is not possible to understand some rational reason from these discussions. It is not possible, because what colleagues are talking about is diametrically opposite to the wishes and efforts of any household, it goes to the diametric opposite of the wishes and efforts of any economic company that wants to be successful, it is diametrically opposite to the efforts of any public administration institution that wants to be successful and operate in a sustainable manner, except in the case of the country, the system as a whole, and some advocate a completely different trend and a different technology of work. This government just introduced some standard, some bragging principle as far as we can get. And more than we can commit, more than the global market allows us to repay, this government has been more successful. If there is another sample in the world economy that measures performance by how fast and how high you can be in debt, then I would ask all those who talk about what you say. There is no sample in the global economy, no case of a country in the global economy that could manage or manage to be in charge of one state budget in one year. The government of Alenka Bratusek succeeded. The government of Alenka Bratusek succeeded. And this was the main smugness in the performances of the National Assembly, how it can successfully be indebted. And the rules – and this was the second argument – were that it owed at lower interest rates than any government before it. However, she has always forgotten to say that we owe more than neighbouring countries. Always. We still owe more money than neighbouring countries. Can Mrs. Potrata explain to me why Croatia owes itself cheaper than Slovenia, with lower GDP, and, I don't know, probably worse prospects, under worse starting conditions? Or the lady who ran the Defense Department. Let me explain what the perception of the world markets is to allow neighbouring countries to lower interest rates on debt than Slovenia. In what? What competitive advantages do those countries have to gain this right? Even countries that have gone through the troika, through the worst recovery in the last two years, have a lower interest rate than Slovenia. Why? Are those who led the government, such as Mrs. Alenka Bratušek or Mr. Finance Minister, less successful, weaker negotiators than neighbouring Croats or Hungarians or anyone else? In this case, low interest rates may not even be that bad. Merclosis isn't that bad either. She's good. It's either a bad tattoo or a home-wrecking thing. That's bad. Because that's what the tax is now paying for. Your Honor, on May 8th, the President of the Government here gave her resignation speech. May 8th. And on May 8th, she said: "If there is or if there is readiness, we will continue to work on the fiscal rule law, because we need to find a two-thirds consensus in this national council." A few days after that, we signed or shared bodies with Mr President of the National Assembly because these structural changes in the coalition had occurred, and there was one passage of parties and there was a coalition or parties supporting the government. Of those parties supporting the government, there is today a tremendously large presence, an enormously large presence. Of those who would continue to show their willingness to work on a fiscal rule or law, there is tremendous participation in this national assembly, tremendously, tremendously, unknowingly. We still have the government with the powers it has. She was invited to participate, and the Prime Minister of the Government assured her so on behalf of the ministers, and today none of the ministers have been here. No finance minister, no agriculture minister, no foreign minister, none of the ministers are here. How will such a government continue to work on a project if there is no one? Mr President, if you knew that the government would not be in the National Assembly, please invite our government in the shadows to prepare and present to you a programme, a way of working, a concept, a drive, how to work and fight for the country to the end, to the end of your breath. Not what's going on, it's all blown up. There is not one of the presidents of the coalition who are offered for the term of office in this National Assembly. One's not here. There is no Mr Židan, no Mr Erjavac, maybe no President of the Government of Mrs Alenka Bratušek and none of those with whom you have signed coalition agreements or agreements to participate in the elections. Interesting. You offer solutions, you offer alliances, you offer long-term offers, and I don't know what, but here we have a concrete solution, which by the way comes out of the constitutional provision. The President and I know that this is recorded in the second chapter and that what is now on the table should be realized by the end of November last year, and this is not on the table. I don't know. I don't care who made this marriage. The author of this law is the Slovenian Democratic Party, because it has some different solutions than you did in Mr. Cuffer's case after our threat of bringing a constitutional indictment. I'm sorry. Until we have taken a decisive step and threatened the Government of March or even February to file a constitutional indictment if this is not realized, nothing has moved until then. And those who beat each other on the chest that this is your proposal, until then you've done absolutely nothing. At that time, we also submitted a law to the negotiating group. Until then, there was no basis. From there it was coordinated, and some things were a little better and a little deeper, while others were not aligned. I'm sorry. And now we have on the table what the shadow government has prepared, Mr President. There is no other proposal, I'm sorry. I would be very happy if, for this table where the Government is sitting, we invited our professional world. I would be very happy if Mrs Potter could ask a question, get a proper explanation, because she obviously cannot in her government coalition, because there is no one here and so on and so forth. In short, what is essential in this country is that at least we adhere to the basic rules. If you owned a record of the fiscal rule in the constitution prepared by the previous government, and this the Prime Minister of the Government has brought about in just a few days of her reign – I don't know, in 30 days, she said that we had already written a fiscal rule in the constitution, and only 60 days have passed since we accepted it – then she would have taken the next step if it were all her masterpiece. It wasn't. It wasn't. And in governments, in coalitions, it's always so that if you're not hearty about things, things don't go forward. They're not moving forward. They are not moving forward in the normative field and are not moving forward in the area of criteria and indicators. If it were as good as some colleagues have spoken before me since the introduction and beyond, then Slovenia would not fall again these days on the scales of economic performance, competitiveness, perceptions to individual phenomena and so on. I wouldn't. But unfortunately, the achievements and activities of this government's work do not show, do not reflect in the results, and at this time, unfortunately, we are being overtaken by many countries, even in sub-Saharan Africa, many countries. Take a look at how the individual countries are progressing. And unfortunately, if the government boasts of achievements, but we're worse than, I don't know, maybe Nigeria, Cameroon or some other country in sub-Saharan Africa, then it's probably not some sort of thing to boast about. If the government were doing well, they wouldn't be in charge of one state budget. For one state budget, while we have practically cleared out all investments from the budget. There are no infrastructure projects. The country cannot provide even EUR 15, 20, 30 million for participation in cohesion projects where own participation is the lowest of all European resources. Six times, seven times that you get on your own participation in return of money by returning your own participation to the country through VAT, up by 50%. Nor is this government capable of doing so. She's not capable! If you feel unknowingly satisfied that you have participated in this coalition project, then something with policy, understanding politics, understanding the effectiveness and regularity of working with these coalition partners is seriously wrong. You have too many references only to external circumstances, too many times. External circumstances are a problem, we inherited things that were difficult to solve in a given segment, but it was a lack of all of our own work, our own contribution to solving problems – it is not. The only thing you were worried about was whether you would be able to get a property tax in one way or another through the state budget or through the National Assembly and succeed with the defence in the Constitutional Court or not. Just this, another question, whether or not and how much we owe in advance, to the stock. For 5, 6 months, it was always in the accounts of state-owned banks. It was the only security guard the finance minister was involved with. However, in order to take any measure to reduce the need for additional resources in order to reduce the need for debt, the need for tax burdens would be reduced in order to reduce the need for excise taxes so that social transfers would not have to be cut down and so on, in this area, this government has done nothing. In such perverse ways, it intervened in these matters, in very perverse ways, by changing the income scale, because it did not feel immediately, and by correcting the basis for the KD and so on. And what other punishments have been imposed, such that a person falls down when he reads the number, for a rich offense, an enormous punishment. In short, if we want to deal with a stable business environment, if we want to create a favourable environment for companies to invest, then we should do things differently. In recent times, however, we have witnessed only this, in addition to how the Government, as the majority owner of individual state monopoly companies, will squeeze out through the assemblies and supervisory councils and collect as much profits from companies as possible in order to stop development and cover what needs to be covered within the needs of the state administration. If this policy were successful, then we would not grow a fixed commitment to the state budget, we would not. If this policy had been successful, we would not have increased our obligations in the state budget for the payment of credits. They wouldn't be magnified. If we were successful, this trend would be reversed, different. And every year, look at the budgets, the part that's needed for old commitments is higher, and when we get to the full payment of commitments – I don't know what the moratoriums are in these cases – then we'll have more or less public administrations and credits. This will be all that the state budget will still cover. No investments in state projects, no investments in roads, municipal infrastructure, public institutions and so on. The way you have set up a policy in the state budget is threatened with extinction. Those who do not see how these things run when investments are declining – this is the way to the extinction of these institutions and of the countries at the end. Infinitely long these things cannot be covered in the way you imagined. In short, I believe that the proposal for this law, which we have tabled in the legislative process, needs to be supported for several reasons. To save the embarrassment of disrespecting the Constitution, which you allowed yourself in the coalition. It's pointless to tell anyone that he doesn't respect the law that's a subordinate act. If you do not respect the Constitution, you must first learn to respect the Constitution, then the law, the regulation, and so on. But obviously in this coalition of perceptions, that the first act in this country is the constitution, that you wrote the provision into the constitution and you also owned it, and you do not respect it – then it means something. Something means something for those who take politics seriously, and something also means for the external environment, political, economic, financial and so on. Everybody sees it and knows it. And before you go into anything, any charges against anyone, you have to look at yourself. When you talk about who has the most charges and so on, it's not criteria, Mrs. Potter. Criterion is justice. I can charge you with 300 thousand things, and maybe no one holds, but that's not the criteria. You can also file 200 cases with someone else, more than any criminal association in Slovenia, but that is not the criteria. The fact that a judicial judgment is given on the indications and not on the facts, but on those who have the facts, matters do not move, and the facts do not have criteria since decades ago. Those who have intervened in human rights and even participated in, say, killings just before the conquest are still innocent, are not in the process – it is not the criteria for accusing someone else. If you are as committed to international conventions as you think you have it or as you tell us, if you have such an obligation to respect the Constitution, to human rights, then you would not object to any debate at the Commission on Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities. There were people who were entitled to certain data, and you made it impossible for them. And even those who were functional in this hierarchy made it impossible. When we are talking about the law to which you claim to have unacceptable solutions — all of these solutions are such that they can be amended in the process below. If you have a better formula, we will also support it, if you have a better solution, we will support it. Just put the solution on the table. To say then that this solution is not good, but at the same time not to suggest any solution, is, I will say, inappropriate, it is the kindest term I can use. If you know that something is wrong, if you have a better solution, then you are actually obliged to do it and propose it. However, it was not a matter that no financial expert in this country said was good. No financial expert, however, in this country, or economic, legal or any other, has negatively defined the solutions that we have proposed in the law. Here, some who have difficulty understanding basic economic characteristics and legality explain how the matter is not good, how the matter is not appropriate. It would be good if those of you who have problems with any of the articles bring something to the table that will drink water if you have anything like that. We've been waiting since November of last year to get something like this on the table. As it is said, for any system, financial sustainability is a prerequisite for us to assess its functioning. If the system does not operate economically sustainably, such a system will sooner or later collapse, any. These grants, the grants needed by the state budget to cover the excessive needs and the excessive things you have financed from the state budget, have been too much in the last year. In one year they were for one state budget. In one year. If Mrs Jelusic says that this is appropriate and sustainable, that this is the right way, that this is a bright way, if we translate a term from South America, that it is a'sendero luminoso', then God help the country, God help you who guide such a policy, because this cannot end well. Because if the government of Alenka Bratušek were to work for another year, I would be in charge of another budget or 1.5 budget, because it would keep everything at the same level and an additional package for payment of obligations, interest. If you can reason that this is the right way, then I would suggest that you correct the formula in this law. Perhaps you should ask a Nobel laureate if he correctly explained something. The fact that you explain what your friends in Germany are saying, the social-democrats, France and so on, that's just one of the things, but unfortunately they don't run politics there. There's Angela Merkel, Prime Minister, not Sigmar Gabriel. In any other country, there is someone other than the Prime Minister, not the Social Democrat or someone from the Red International. That's right. However, if you want things to move in the right direction to get finally satisfied people who pay less taxes, to live better, to be able to afford more, then there must be activities related to the state budget, then there must be activities in any area in another direction, in another direction. As this will result in fewer social transfers, more people will strive to work, all public cash transfers will work better and so on. This is a prerequisite, a prerequisite for us to start doing things differently, but not just rooting taxes, putting pressure on people, putting pressure on them, companies falling, the types of employment agencies are increasing, the liabilities of transfers from the state budget are growing. And instead of investing in new projects, we cover the sins you've committed before. The government of Borut Pahor, in which you were also a minister, Madam, managed to repay 8 billion in three years to cover its obligations. There was a crisis, nothing happened, waiting for the French-German train, but the train didn't come. And you, by your decisions, have withdrawn 8 billion from the system from the outside through the law on budget implementation. In one year, this government, which has done even less, collected 8 billion in the external markets, brought them into the country to preserve what it had to do. How long will the next Social Democratic or Left Government need to cover the commitments made by this government? Can you tell me? If you are able to distribute so much about the correctness of individual directions, you would also expect an answer in this area. Is that going to be 5 billion, is that going to be 2 billion, or is that going to be 12? We are in favour of the fact that the need for additional resources is either tax-related or debt-based. But something has to be done for that. Not all things will be popular and not all things will be popular, but necessary. And unfortunately that was not the case in this term. Therefore, there is none here of those who have committed themselves to participating in the draft implementing law and the adoption of the implementing law, which is the title of the Constitution, and there is no one here who wants to be a mandate-holder after the election period. There is no one to tell what his performance is about the fiscal issues that we are dealing with today. I don't think that's good for this country. It seems to me that this policy, which led this country this year, last year, is not good. This means that they simply flee from responsibility, do nothing to change things, and leave virtually everything to the one who will come. The mandate of this government will end in one way or another, the mandate of this coalition will also come, a new formation will come, can also liberally leave, but the obligation will end with the previous government. I propose that you take these matters seriously also in the discussions at the end of the term of office.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u65	Thank you. Before I give the floor forward, I would just like to point out that this item is on the agenda because the request was submitted by the group of 26 Members and Members, with the first-signed Jozet Tank, so that the government cannot be a candidate in the shadows, nor can it debate. However, we do have a certain representative of the proposers for this. Replica wanted Dr. Ljubica Jelusic, but I think it'll be a time problem. But it'll be possible then. I'll ask. Since time is not yet spent, it will be possible to sign up for the word below and it is possible to get a word in five minutes. And I'm giving the word to the magician right now. To Andre Shirtzle.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have to actually give Mrs Putra here an answer, especially because she said that the proponents are doing perverted acts with this. Ladies and gentlemen, I, on behalf of the proposer, am not doing any depraved acts by upholding the fiscal rule law. And I object to the fact that someone from the opposite political field is immediately branded irrespective of what the proposal is, of course, on the left hand side of the option. If this law reduces debts and interest on future debts, if in your opinion this is a misdeeded act, then it is a perverted and bizarre act that this law is simply opposed, for it imposes debts on future generations and even greater interest. So here I propose that at least at the end of the mandate, the honourable left, we begin to deal with the content of the law and, of course, with the unconstitutional situation. You still have a chance to do this. The law was made in a working group in which you were involved. You didn't agree with everything. The government didn't put it in coordination. This is why the Slovenian Democratic Party did so. If the law is adopted in the first reading, it will be possible to change, to also implement the solutions that you advocate, if you have any solutions, if you have any suggestions. But you can't just criticize, and on the other hand, you don't have any suggestions to improve the legal text. And only three questions are questionable, and the law will be made and something good will be done for Slovenia and the Slovenians.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u67	Thank you. I take it you've all been given the floor by the reported debaters who wanted to. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. [[He does.]] At the same time, I warn the proposer that, if he wishes to speak at this stage, he must also apply to the word with a raise in his hand, because the system only detects Members. If you've decided to discuss it, I'll take that into account. I invite everyone who has applied to the debate to apply. Three reported, five minutes each. Finally, the applicant shall be registered. Mag. Ivan Vogrin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to add perhaps the following to the previous debate. How I actually understand the fiscal rule and what the effect is. The fiscal rule, in my opinion, means that the state is leading such a public financial policy that people are getting better and better. That's the point. It's not the point of writing something and saying that you've written it there now, but that when you're self-limited in debt, when you say you can't spend more than you've created, of course, you're allowing the state to prosper. However, the state prospers in such a way that it raises real wages, pensions, that public standards are good. On the contrary, we need to see how others have it arranged. Consider an example; we will have to start looking at foreign examples. Switzerland, for example, has 8 million inhabitants and 7 ministries. Tell me the logic by which Slovenia has 13 ministries. Number of Members: Germany 8, Slovakia 27, Czech Republic 22, Austria also 22 and us 45 per million. We will have to start working on structural reforms. According to the number of students per million people, we have four times more students than we have a rich Switzerland. It's a fiscal rule. Well, that's a fiscal rule. One of the politicians is – because you will remember which – announced that pensions will be net before the 2011 elections. None of this happened. Retirements have fallen! Do you know how much? According to my calculations from 2004 to 2014, 30%. Ladies and gentlemen, 30%! Why? Because we don't control well. Do you know that I always put myself on the case? And you can't say you had a good run, and your company went bankrupt if this country went bankrupt. She went bankrupt. If we don't get credit now and we get credit to pay our children and grandchildren and have a very bad standard in the future, then the public sector would actually be without pay. Teachers wouldn't have salaries, not teachers, not doctors, not cops, not soldiers. And we're gonna have to start self-restraint with ourselves. We continue to talk about how we care for the pensioners – yes, we took the holiday allowance from the pensioners, we took it. 200,000 pensioners live below the poverty line. Yeah, well, that's a fiscal rule. We need to start what we talked to the former Minister of Mags before. Stan Stepišnik, we need to start taking action to create something. And now we're not thinking about anything but how we're going to do a little bit more. The public sector, ladies and gentlemen – tell us who hopes to say this now at the time of the elections – should be reduced by 30%. We're not going to swim any other way. We won't! It can't be! If we've done this in companies, we've gone bankrupt. We didn't cut the directorship, we didn't adjust the scale of the business, and we went bankrupt. Do you know what a terrible price to pay for this? There's no need for an entire nation to pay for this. Well, Mr. Tank, I have some repairs to make. There is an independent alternative in Parliament with 100%. I am alone now, but in the next Parliament, not now, in one of the following, but there will be plenty of economists, because this will necessarily happen because there is no other way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr Marko Pavlisic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. If I understand correctly, the main question for those who oppose this bill is whether public finances can be balanced already in 2015. The answer is quite simple: of course you can. What does it take to do that? It is necessary to open for foreign investment, the economic potential needs to be unleashed, the interest kindergartens must be stopped and the thefts in state-owned enterprises must be stopped. But look, what has to be done, what would be good to do, what would be decent to do, and so on and so forth, we will hear many more in the coming weeks. Many, especially prominent professors, know all these questions. Few, however, have the answer to what and how we will achieve. And let me tell you clearly how to do this. It is necessary to open for foreign investment by making privatisation, where it makes sense, to allow space for new greenfield investments and finally to open up to such financial flows. The economic potential needs to be unleashed. How? With lower labour taxation and greater flexibility in the labour market. These are the measures for this. Interested kindergartens need to be freed with a new policy in concessions that will stimulate this and with the actual use of public-private partnerships, that a public-private partnership is not just a cover for putting public funds in private pockets. And you have to stop stealing from state-owned companies. We have already done this to a large extent with the Law on Access to Public Information, and we have already done this to a large extent by the fact that there are no more sacred cows in this country, nor are the bulls, not that anyone will feel hurt. And also by privatising these companies, where millions and millions are now flowing into different private pockets. In short, to balance public finances, they were already made available to them in 2015 and we know how. Maybe we're missing something here. But in the Civil Gazette, we have a program and we have the balls to do it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u71	Thank you. Dr. Ljubica Jelusic has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u72	Thank you very much, President. I am sorry that you have not previously allowed me to communicate to Mr Tank by means of a procedural proposal through you, in fact, what you have told him in such a beautiful way is that we are here in place or in an institution where the legislative process is under way, not a pre-election campaign. And with his appeal to his professional world and his shadow government, he actually corrupted the image of all that his fellow Mags had previously built. Spread out, mag. Pogačnik, Mrs Ramšak and others who have sincerely advocated the implementing law on fiscal rules, and he has shown that this whole circus here is intended for a campaign. Unfortunately, and so one serious discussion that we had before turned into an account for which it is not good to hear, even though we are at the end of our term of office. Among other things, packing at the expense of representatives of governments of other countries – the fact that it is packed at the expense of Sigmar Gabriel, who is a sub-channeler and Minister of Economy of the German Government, is indecisive, and in this way speaking from behind the speaker of the Slovenian National Assembly is really inappropriate. Besides, he's asking questions for us. The drafter of this law, which we are talking about today, is the SDS, and we expect the proposer to answer us with certain questions and dilemmas we have with regard to this law. But the thin one comes in, flies in, hasn't been in the whole debate before, comes in and starts asking us questions. Even more, he says he'll be a magician. Spending asked questions to their government in the shadows. Listen, we didn't get any answers to the questions we asked. On my question, too, on why the Janšev government ended 2012 with 54.4% of debt in GDP, if the budget prepared by the Pahorje government in 2011 provided for 48% of debt in GDP for 2012. If this Janša government has taken such a great deal of care in 2012 to balance public finances, to save, to reduce public sector costs, how could it have happened that you still increased debt in Slovenia's GDP? If you have run the country so well and if you think in the same ways as you used it in 2012, lead the country forward, then people should be told publicly that you also owed the country, and obviously excessively, because otherwise the debt would not increase so much in terms of what was envisaged in the budget. That the applicant has difficulty with the seriousness of the proposal also shows that the law on implementing the fiscal rule here advocates a maximum of 5 people. If it were a serious law in which a two-thirds majority of this national assembly actually needed to be obtained, then it would likely be advocated by more barbecue and more experts. Finally, I would like to point out that a party of the Social Democrats also participated in the working group preparing the implementing law, but that it did not agree with the solutions that were prepared in the working group; at least on three points, our members of the working group certainly had a different opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u73	Thank you. He's also a magician's proponent. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u74	Thank you very much. I am pleased that colleague Jelusič has asked only one question which has not been answered. In fact, before that, I think 6 or 7, I hope that the debt and why Italy 133% of GDP were responsible for, and why the average debt in Europe is 90% and so on. Yes, even in the Janša government in 2012 there was an obligation, of course. If I can just tell you why. In view of the need to cover liabilities from previous periods. Look, believe it or not, we can go watch numbers, whatever. So, of course, it was, and of course, something in the field of expenditure was done. But then an additional debt had to be taken because the obligations of previous years — not just one year, but the previous years — had to be met. Indeed, there was no significant economic growth at the time. However, there have already been extensions to stabilise the expenditure with that infamous ZUJF, which, of course, you were also against and the opponent at least partly in this regard. However, be assured that the number of people who advocate this law does not show this barbecue does not reflect this barbecue, why the fiscal rule should be adopted. And one more thing; this fiscal rule is not done in order for one government to work on it, to do so only for one government. Any government that comes, whatever government will rule, will have to comply with the fiscal rule law if it goes into further consideration and constitutional provisions, regardless of who it is. This means that the law is transparent, that the law is made for all governments. I am of the personal opinion that that government will have considerable difficulty in putting public finances in order in the first and second years. I'd rather not say it, but it has to be, not for us, but for future generations. My colleague said we'd pay a billion interest. Ladies and gentlemen, make a billion interest instead of putting this money in education for better education for young people, for better education for our children, to put it in research. And if we don't stop this crazy debt, it's going to go so far that we don't have to fund this education or this health care. But this is for all governments. This is not for the government of the SDS, this is not for the government of the Social Democrats. For all the governments that will rule, this law is made. And I suggest, given that tomorrow's vote on this law, that you take the time to reconsider. After all, this law may also be rejected in a further consideration, perhaps even being rejected or accepted. But to give the next National Assembly the opportunity to do so. Not for SDS, not for Social Democrats, but for Slovenia. We can talk about percentages of public debt, whether it's 45 or it's 60, we can also talk about some other solutions, about the timeline, whether it's 2015 or it's 2017. These things are open. We can talk about the fiscal world, the role of the fiscal world. We can make a provision, which has also been proposed by this working group into the law, and we can correct it a little bit or not. The law is open, the law is transparent, the law is not written for anyone in particular. I think that in order to do something good for future generations, for citizens and citizens of Slovenia, it is necessary to support the law, correct it in the following cases. After all, Slovenia will have to move in this direction sooner or later.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u75	Thank you. This concludes the debate. Excuse me? Procedurally, Mr. Meh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u76	Mr President, it seems inappropriate to me that the party that has been or has requested this extraordinary meeting is present here today with an honourable Member and honourable Member, and there are no others here. This, of course, indicates that they have spoken and left. And if the same party is talking about the government not being here, and it demands that the government be here, then it seems inappropriate to me. That's not how he behaves. Today it is a media game, a game to exploit media space and to mislead Slovenian taxpayers and taxpayers, because it is an extraordinary meeting at a time when in fact the National Assembly should really talk about extremely problematic and thoughtful moves. Fiscal rule, the fiscal rule law is an extremely important law and we should really agree on it before that. That's why I'm protesting it. They love to talk about how I remember how Comrade Vizjak talked about when there was no one in the National Assembly. [[...]] Today's the same thing. It is said that we should be careful when we accuse and talk about someone. I don't think it's appropriate, it's wrong, and this place is being used. Against it, against extraordinary fairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u77	Therefore, if I understand your procedural proposal, laws should be tabled that would be appropriate for this time, but this assessment is actually left to those requiring an extraordinary meeting. However, I must say that the debate is closed. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Friday 20, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting. 6. 2014, in the context of the vote. Procedurally, mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mr President, I am making a procedural proposal, namely that a Member who has come to the Chamber 10 minutes ago and I have not seen him since 12 noon does not participate in this debate, does not make proposals that this is reversed, that this is done only for the public and that the SDS is misleading the public and so on. The MP who came to the National Assembly to make a procedural proposal and is here for 10 minutes – I'm sorry, it's been overturned for me. This is overturned, and this is a deception to the public. Once again, we are not here to propose this law for a government. This law is proposed for Slovenia, for future generations. And I refuse to allow this to be any deceiving. The next National Assembly can also adopt this law, can simply summarize it, can change it, can do what it wants with it. Once again, I strongly protest that the MP who is here is 10 minutes [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u79	But you'll have to make a procedural proposal [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u80	make such a procedural proposal. [[...]] That was my procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u81	I have understood Mr Meh's suggestion that laws no longer be tabled at this stage because he considers that this is mainly political marketing. I told him that, in fact, this procedural proposal could not be taken into account because it was the decision of the individual parliamentary group, or at least 23 Members and Members, to request a discussion on an individual point. With regard to your proposal, Mr Šircelj, I must admit that I did not see that it would be procedural, and I am evaluating it more on this side that you have abused the procedural proposal. Mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u82	Mr President of the National Assembly, as President of the National Assembly, you are responsible for a proper and, last but not least, a decent debate in Parliament. I must say that in many respects your client colleague, Mr Happy Meh, has exceeded the limit of dignity. In fact, it is extremely unworthy that a Member, who has spent almost 5 hours all day, more than 5 hours discussing at this point, is not, at the end of the day, obvious to us who are following this debate all the time and we have participated in it – I myself have had about half a debate on this point and I am following this debate directly. That is why I have also heard Mr Meh, who personally attacked me with discreditation, that I am not here and that I am not following this debate. Mr Meh, you were not in this room, nor were your colleagues, many, at the time we spoke. At the time you enjoyed this unworthy performance, I personally heard you and accompanied you, as well as all the debaters before that. I can also tell Mrs Potter what she said and so on, because I've been monitoring it because you know that we can monitor in our offices through video and via audio devices what is happening here. We probably have something else to do and we can follow the debate when we do something else. So, Madam President, I said it in the beginning, and now I will finally make my procedural proposal. If you have double criteria now at the end and you warn us on the one hand that we are in breach of the rules of procedure, while you will not have your client colleagues, with more than obvious that they are doing so, it will not be good. And one more thing; proposals contrary to the Constitution and the law, such as that Members should not make laws, are, at least, ridiculous. Our fundamental right is to put forward proposals for solutions that we think are good for this country. So I would really like to ask you further procedurally to have the same vats for us sitting here. Stop the insults, please. I didn't hurt anyone. I just warned them about the facts.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u83	Thank you. There will be no more procedural proposals, Mr Happy Meh. I have previously understood your procedural proposal and tried to explain it to you and also to tell you that it cannot be taken into account because 23 Members and Members always have the opportunity to put the proposal into the procedure. I've been so, I hope, corrected. The content of all these discussions, which were then below, can in fact be understood more than controversy, which is not the point of procedural proposals. I'm closing this agenda item. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, this is, on the other hand, a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 10 Members and Members, with the first-signed France Bogovic. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer of the draft law, Jakob Preseknik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today again before us is a package of two laws that we have tabled together members of the Slovenian People's Party, as well as Members of the New Slovenia to help micro and small entrepreneurs and businesses. Both in the first reading and in the working body, both laws received the support of the vast majority of Members. In view of the positive responses, such support is also expected in advance. In the SLS and NSI parliamentary groups, we have decided to propose an increase in the threshold for entry into the flat-rate taxation system to €100,000, while making the system even more attractive for small businesses by raising the standardised costs from 70% to 80%. The aim is to manage as much of the small and medium-sized sector as possible. Today, small entrepreneurs spend a lot of their time, instead of devoting themselves to their basic activities and work, on administration, accounting, collection of cost-implementation accounts, spending a lot of energy on regulating their accounts. This legal package also allows larger entrepreneurs and slightly larger companies to pay a fixed tax on their income while at the same time suspending accurate accounting, proof of expenditure and all other red tape. We are convinced that there are many in Slovenia who are willing to pay some reasonable tax if they leave them with their tax and other controls so that they can devote themselves to their business. This also leaves most of the accounting costs, which also move over thousands of euros at the annual level. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that this is a solution where we can all be winners, both burdened entrepreneurs and craftsmen as well as the country. In both laws, we have also introduced an anti-abuse guard that, in espouses that reach between EUR 50 and EUR 100 000 and want to apply taxation on the basis of standardised costs, at least one person is included in the compulsory insurance system. In both laws, we have also introduced an anti-abuse guard that, in espouses that reach between EUR 50 and EUR 100 000 and want to apply taxation on the basis of standardised costs, at least one person is included in the compulsory insurance system. I would also point out that if both laws were to be adopted if they were to come to life next year, they would also need to be supplemented by the Value Added Tax Act, which is due to the rules following the coordination or the need to obtain the consent of the Council of the European Union in the Government domain. Finally, allow me to define myself until the amendment tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance. Members of the SLS and Members of the New Slovenia do not support it, as there is no added value in it, but it is more about further explanation in the text of the law. The basic doctrine already very clearly defines the conditions for one person involved in compulsory insurance, whether he is an employed person in a working relationship or an employee as a self-employed person. With regard to the completion of the 13th paragraph of Article 48 of the Income Act, which provides for the requirement to verify this condition also every subsequent tax year, when the taxable person is already in the system, we agree in principle with the content, but we note that we cannot place the exact same solutions due to the closed article in the Law on Taxation of Legal Persons and create unequal treatment with the amendment. We therefore propose that this amendment be rejected, because in the coming months the Income Law will have to be reopened because of the Constitutional Court's decision. At that time, the Government, whatever it may be, may also propose to the National Assembly this amendment, while at the same time opening the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons and regulating the matter systematically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u85	Thank you, too. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body and I give the floor to a member of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, Mag. The Vranian, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 95th urgent session. 6. 2014 as a parent working body was treated as a draft law on amendments and additions to the Income Act submitted to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed France Bogovic. In a joint introductory explanation of both related texts, i.e. the novels of the Income Act and the novelty of the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons, the proposalr said that the text introduces an increase in the income threshold for entry into the system of standardising expenditure from the current €50,000 to €100,000. Additional conditions for entrepreneurs wishing to enter a system of standardised expenditure exceeding the income threshold of EUR 50 000 in the previous calendar year and raising the amount of standardised revenue from the current 70% to 80% of tax-recognised revenue. The main objective of the two proposals is to help people, the small economy, crafts and employment segment due to the envisaged simplification and burden of administrative costs. The State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance stressed, in the context of the presentation of the opinion of the Government, that the proposal was not based on assessments and analyses carried out to take account of the overall situation of such debtors. According to the Government’s assessment, in particular, the premature opinion on the effectiveness of the current system by creating any necessary amendments to the preliminary amendment to the Income Act, first used for the fiscal year 2013, as its purpose was to simplify administratively with a view to ensuring transparency over future tax obligations and a less favourable tax treatment. In a joint presentation of the comments submitted on the two proposals, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stated, among other things, that the specific comments on both texts of a nominal or editorial nature were duly taken into account in the amendments. The opinion of the Commission of the State Economic, Trade, Tourism and Finance Council to both proposals was presented in detail below by the Vice-President of the Commission, Mr Alojz Kovšca, both in terms of the opinion of the Government and in terms of the position of the Chamber of Commerce. The Commission of the Council of State supports both amendments to the laws. In the debate, the members of the Committee asked individual questions and presented certain points of view. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee adopted, at the time of its consideration of the individual articles, the amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party and the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors to Articles 1 and 3 of the draft law. In conclusion, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all articles of the draft law and adopted them. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes both adopted amendments, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u87	Thank you, too. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mag. Matthew Vraničar, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u88	President, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The possibility of determining the tax base of income from activities, taking into account standard expenditure, is established with a view to administrative simplification for small business entities in compliance with their tax obligations. The system has been in force since the introduction of the Income Act and was substantially renewed in 2012 by applying it for the first time for the tax year 2013. The accounts of the income tax on activities under the amended scheme were submitted to the tax administration by 22 April of this year. This period from 22 April to today is so short that it is impossible to prepare all data from the tax accounts for analysis and determination as to whether the actual reason why it is assessed that the recast scheme has not been implemented in accordance with the 2012 expectations is indeed in the low standardised expenditure or in the low income threshold set by the law. As a result, in the first reading, the Government objected to the proposal of the law, since the proposed solutions do not follow or are not based on an analysis of the actual situation and the realistic findings as to what is the key problem of the so-called flat-rate taxation of income for individual entrepreneurs. Any simplification, including one with flat-rate taxation, means a shift from taxation to actual economic power. And any simplification means inequality between taxpayers. When we look at the segments in which the taxpayers decide to tax under standardised expenditure and to use this system, we find that these are exclusively and only activities in which the actual expenditure is extremely low. And only in these cases can it be expected that this system, as introduced by the bill, will continue to live. If we only look at the amount of revenue that taxpayers have, only 77 % of the 97 000 entities could operate through this system, only 15,000 business entities liable to the activity tax have decided on it. Taking all these facts into account, both in the first and second readings, the Government warned that, before the system that only lives for one year, we should wait for the possibility to analyse the data of the 2013 tax period. However, given that this is not the case and that the National Assembly estimates that the ideas of the Chamber of Commerce and Economics should be followed and that the existing system should be changed immediately, we have proposed some amendments in the second reading to improve the text or make it operational at all. Some of the solutions that we have advocated on the labour market have also been confirmed through the substantively identical amendments of the bill's proponents. We estimate, however, that these texts will not give appropriate guidance to those who will be obliged to ensure the uniform and uniform implementation of the law. For this reason, as a working tool, we have drawn up a proposal for new amendments, first of all we have tried to harmonise them with the drafters, but since we have not been successful in doing so, we have proposed to the other parliamentary groups that they support the amendment proposal. The amendments do not affect the interests of the applicants, but clarify the provision so that the implementation cannot lead to different interpretations and different actions of the tax authorities in the control, and from this point of view the quality of the legal text is improved at least in technical terms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u89	Thank you, too. Since the assembly held a general debate on the draft law at its 25th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups and we are moving on to a debate on the article and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the Alliance's Group of Ambassadors, Alenka Bratušek. Anybody want to talk? There are many of you, so I suggest you sign up for the debate. Mr Aljoša Jerič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With the proposed or proposed amendment, we want to define more precisely the condition for inclusion in the tax base system, taking into account the standardised expenditure for taxpayers with income of more than 50,000 and up to 100,000 euros, which is linked to a full-time insured person in accordance with the law governing pension and disability insurance. In our opinion, the amendment makes it more clear that the condition applies to employees in the employment relationship of the debtor and also to the debtor himself, the self-employed person. Furthermore, the amendment supplementing Article 13 of the Income Act provides for the obligation to verify this condition also every subsequent tax year when the taxable person is already in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u91	Thank you, too. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I will be very brief because, in fact, my colleague Presečnik, on behalf of the applicants, has already stated the position of the applicants, namely the New Slovenia Group and the Slovenian People's Party's Group, before the proposed amendment. Of course, we have examined this amendment tabled by the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek, and the copyrights of the Ministry of Finance have been thoroughly examined and noted, as has already been said, that we do not see any added value that this amendment would bring to the text of the law; therefore, of course, the position of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors – Christian Democrats as co-proposers of this amendment is also unacceptable. Well, we're not going to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u93	Thank you, too. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. The amendment will be decided on Friday, 20.6.2014 in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We are moving on to the 7th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation of Legal Persons, within the framework of the regular procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of ten Members and Members with a first-signed magi. Matthew Tonin. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed bill to Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u94	Thank you again, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, Madam Secretary of State! So it's a legislative twin, it's a new law on income and a new law on corporate income tax. It is therefore a matter of law, and I would like to begin by thanking all Members and Members of Parliament, who have helped to push the way for both texts of the laws to come to this stage, is said to be the second reading at the National Assembly. Aware that the small economy represents almost 99% of the total Slovenian economy; aware that the small economy is the backbone of all modern developed economies; aware that, irrespective of the status of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which carries out ongoing business, we must start establishing a business environment that will encourage entrepreneurship and the entrepreneurial spirit, we have put a legislative twin into the parliamentary procedure, this is the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act and the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation from the Income of Legal Persons, which we are currently considering. In doing so, let me stress that this is not a tax relief, but merely a simplification of taxation of smaller taxpayers. In fact, such a system of taxation has already been in place since 2012, and it captures, according to our assessment, a small circle of taxpayers. We would like to extend the range of taxpayers, flatlists, reduce the paperwork and costs for entrepreneurs to manage the business books that entrepreneurs pay to the accounting services. The processing of the first tax returns submitted after the new simplified tax system for 2013 has not yet been fully completed, so it is not yet possible to talk about the effects of the current flat-rate taxation system, but we have listened to the demands of independent entrepreneurs, legal entities, and in particular the initiative of the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise on the necessary increase in the threshold to choose to simplify flat-rate taxation from the current EUR 50,000 to EUR 100,000 per year and to increase the percentage of recognised standard costs from the current 70% to 80%. Colleagues and colleagues. All of us finish or finish this moment – New Slovenia has already done this – electoral programmes and we all have a common denominator, this is the start of the Slovenian economy. I believe that in the second reading of this amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons at the plenary session of the National Assembly, it will be sufficiently willing for us to adopt this law and also to have a third reading at this meeting. So much for once on the proposer's side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u95	Thank you, too. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to a member of Joseph Horvath. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u96	Thank you, Mr. President. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 95th urgent session. 6th this year, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Legal Persons' Income Tax, submitted to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption by a group of Members and Members with a first-signed Matthew Tonin. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the representative, on behalf of the bill's proponents, explained the reasons why they had proposed new solutions to the bill. The main aim is to help small and micro-enterprises and to relieve them of administrative and accounting costs. With the solutions proposed, they want to make the system more attractive for taxpayers. The bill, according to them, brings solutions to people, entrepreneurs, tradesmen, solutions for the country and also to law enforcement authorities that can deal with more important matters. The representative of the Government said that the flat-rate taxation system had not come to life in the expected range, but the Government needed an opportunity to analyse more accurately the causes of the tax calculations that were first submitted this year under the new flat-rate taxation system. On the basis of the written opinion, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service further pointed out that their comments were mainly of a nominal or editorial nature, which was corrected by the amendments proposed. In addition, the representative made specific substantive comments. The representative of the Council of State presented the written opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, which supports the proposal of the law. In the debate, some members of the Committee felt that it was too early to assess whether the law in force was effective as it applied the bad year. However, some discussers considered that the majority of taxpayers who decided to enter this mode of taxation decided on the basis of more favourable circumstances, both from a tax point of view and from a simplification point of view. Entrepreneurship and certain activities that have been particularly intensive in entering this system need to be further encouraged, and these were professional scientific and technical advice, cultural and recreational services in the field of IT and processing activities. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted an amendment to Articles 1 and 3 of the proposal of the New Slovenia and the Slovenian People's Party. On the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee's amendment to Article 1 of the amendment to the Parliamentary Groups of the Slovenian People's Party and of New Slovenia was also adopted by the Committee. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the Supplemental Proposal for a Law on which amendments are included is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. To supplement the bill, it is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u97	Thank you, too. For an introductory explanation of the Government's opinion, I give the word mag. Matthew the Vranic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Several times it has already been pointed out that this is a proposal for a law which has a substantive connection with the previous amendment of the Income Act. Therefore, all that I have said in connection with the amendment to the Income Act also applies to the amendment to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons. I would only like to highlight some aspects which are particularly important for the taxation of legal persons or which are different from those of individuals engaged in gainful activities. The possibility of taxing the determination of the tax base by taking into account the standardised expenditure in the field of corporate taxation was introduced as from 1 January 2013. When preparing this system, it was estimated that around a thousand taxpayers could opt for this system of taxation, but only 235 legal persons had actually decided on it. Of which 135 in the field of advice. This essentially says that the basic problem of the scheme is not the amount of revenue and the amount of standardised expenditure, but it is necessary to ask why other activities did not decide on such a tax system in the analysis of the overall situation of taxpayers. In doing so, it must be borne in mind that neither has the objective of administrative simplification been achieved in the area of corporate taxation, since legal persons, regardless of their size under the Company Act, must maintain accounting or accounting and consist of business books for business purposes, not just for tax purposes. In addition, in the area of legal persons, the issue of inequality between debtors is important and the problem which may be caused by disproportionately determining the amount of income and the amount of standardised expenditure in relation to one of the basic principles of tax law, i.e. the principles of taxation under the economic power of taxpayers. Finally, it should also be noted that the Constitutional Court’s judgment, which was adopted in connection with the flat-rate taxation of certain other incomes, in the area of income, but there was a clear statement by the Constitutional Court that, if data exist on actual income, actual income and actual costs, flat-rate taxation is not permissible or is not compatible with the Constitution. To a certain extent, this problem is solved by the fact that flat-rate taxation, both in the field of legal persons and natural persons, is optional, is not necessarily binding, but it is a certain problem for us. For these reasons, the Government did not support the draft law in the second reading, so if the law was supported, if there was a legal text that was enforceable in practice, including in the field of corporate income tax, we had prepared working material for amendments to the home labour body and, as with the Income Law, amendments to be considered in the second reading at the plenary session of the National Assembly were also proposed for this law. Once again, I stress that the purpose of these amendments is not to destroy the purpose that the applicants had in submitting the law, but to prevent different interpretations from occurring in the implementation of the law, when the conditions for flat-rate taxation of income among those who achieve incomes between 50 and 100,000 euros should be applied and when they do not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u99	Thank you, too. Since the assembly held a general debate on the draft law at its 25th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups and we are moving on to a debate on the two articles and the amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek. Someone wants to talk about one. Article 1(2)? First Mr. Aljoša Jerič, then Mr. Horvat. Here you go, Mr. Jerich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Since these are two laws that are twins, we would also like to define more precisely the condition of including the tax base system in this case, taking into account the standard expenditure for taxpayers with income of more than 50,000 and up to 100,000 euros. Thus, the condition applies to employees in the employment relationship of the debtor and also to the shareholder himself, who is necessarily insured under Article 16 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act 2.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u102	Thank you again, Mr. President. We have, of course, studied the proposals of the amendments, the New Slovenia Parliamentary Group and the Slovenian People's Party. I will now be rational and will talk about the amendment to Article 1 and also to Article 3, Mr President, if you will allow me. As with the new Income Act, which we have proposed, we find that we do not actually see any specific added value if these two amendments, namely Articles 1 and 3, were adopted. Therefore, the decision of the proposed amendment to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons is rejected by the two proposed amendments. So, the New Slovenia Group and, if I may also speak on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group as candidates for the amendment of the law, we will not support these two amendments. However, if I may, with just one sentence, remind my colleagues and colleagues that, when we were writing both amendments to the law, we would also consider the Value Added Tax Act, which would have to be amended when both amendments to the law were eventually adopted. In this regard, we wrote to the Government on 13 May this year and warned her to pay attention to the parliamentary procedure of these two new laws, because the Government will have to negotiate with the world or to obtain an agreement to raise the VAT threshold from 50,000 to 100,000 euros. That's just for information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u103	Thank you, too. Anybody else want to discuss this? I note that no, so I am concluding the debate on Article 1 and the amendment to this Article. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the Alliance's Group of Ambassadors, Alenka Bratušek, to this article. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Aljoša Jerič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Just for a little while, because it's a very short amendment. It is proposed that the word "year" in Article 3(1) be replaced by the word "period" in order to align the terminology used in the law with the applicable regulation in the Law on the Income Taxation of Legal Persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u105	Thank you, too. Anyone else would like to discuss Article 3 and the amendment to this Article? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. Amendments will be decided on Friday, 20, in accordance with the meeting’s timetable. 6. 2014, in the context of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, this is on the eve of a proposal for a law amending the law on the conditions of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the lower universe, a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 26 Members and Members with the first-signed Andrej Visiak. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposers of the proposal of the Magi Act. Andrei Vissiak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u106	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The law on the conditions of the energy concession of the lower Sava was introduced by the four members of the National Assembly in the previous term, and I was alone among the co-signers of this law. The law regulates the way hydropower plants are built on the lower Savi. The law replaced the law with a similar name that existed before, and three or four hydroelectric plants were built under this law and the construction of the Brežica hydroelectric power plant began. The 2011 Act provides that the infrastructure part of the arrangements for Brežica hydroelectric power plant is financed by the Climate Change Fund. This is a significant change under the legislation in force until then, as by 2011 the main water infrastructure or accumulation pool is to be financed from the so-called Water Fund. Let me explain a little bit that hydropower plants are made up of energy and infrastructure. The energy part is financed by energy, the concessionaire, the hydroelectric company in Lower Savi, the infrastructure part, these are water arrangements, the simplified said accumulation pool, and mainly by 2011 it is financed by the water fund and after 2011 by the Climate Change Fund. This should ensure continuity in financing the construction of infrastructure work, as in the past there have been a number of traps across the country and the pressure on the Water Fund has become relatively large. And all of us who want to work smoothly at the hydro power plants at the bottom of the Sava are aware that there is a need to find a new system for building infrastructure work. We must be aware that the State has granted a concession to the hydroelectric power plant at the bottom of the Sava to carry out certain State commitments from this concession, and the State's specific commitment is to follow the construction of the infrastructure work in energy, that is to say those who are building the energy part. Mrs Alenka Bratušek, current President of the Government on her way out, laid the foundation stone for the construction of the hydroelectric Brežica about a month ago and something else, and today it is more than clear that the energy part of the hydroelectric power plant is being built. However, it has been stuck in financing and providing funding for the continuation of design, land purchases for infrastructure works, that is to say what is the task of the candidates or the country which granted the concession. It is also clear that there is not enough money in the Climate Change Fund to continue construction, although the Climate Change Fund has certain funds, which Eco has dedicated to investing in energy renovation of buildings, this year is specifically two and a half million euros from the Climate Change Fund for the purchase of buses in Ljubljana and Maribor and so on. In short, the Ministry of Environment and Space has also allocated funds from the Climate Change Fund for certain other projects. And since the law in 2014 no longer allows the financing of infrastructure works for hydropower plants from the Water Fund, we propose that it is possible to continue to do so in a transitional period, this year and 2015, to finance, I say, water infrastructure from the Water Fund or other budgetary resources. We do not want to repeat the story from the Krška hydropower plant when the energy part was being built and the construction of the infrastructure work stopped, and the result is that a hydroelectric power plant can be built without an accumulating pool and if the hydropower plant does not operate, because, of course, it cannot operate without an accumulation pool, there is about half a million euros of damage every month because the water flows through instead of running through the turbines. We would therefore like to see the construction of the Brežica hydropower plant, which has already been laid on the foundation stone and is already being built in the energy work, building smoothly in the infrastructure work. We therefore propose and give the Government the opportunity to finance this infrastructure part from several sources, not only from the Climate Change Fund. It may also be from the Water Fund or other budgetary resources. In this way, we want the basic and fundamental purpose of the construction of hydroelectric plants on the lower Sava – in particular it is now the turn of the Brežice hydroelectric power plant, followed by the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant – to be carried out continuously, in accordance with the law adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u107	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment as a working body and I give the floor to Vice-President Zvonk Lahu to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u108	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment considered the draft law at its 43rd urgent meeting, on 13.6.2014. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which made a comment on the draft law and is summarised in the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 1. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, which supports the proposal for a law. Given that the representative of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment opposed the adoption of the bill and that the representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space supported the proposal of the law, the members of the committee first expressed their disappointment at the fact that the Government had not adopted an opinion on such an important issue, which would make sense and necessary, especially in the fact that the two ministries had different views on the proposed legal solutions. They therefore expressed the expectation that, pending the consideration of the draft law at the meeting of the National Assembly, the Government would nevertheless unify the position of the competent ministries and adopt a single opinion on the proposed amendment to the law. In the discussion below, the representative of the proponents, referring to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment's rejection of co-financing due to the indivisible relationship of water and energy infrastructure facilities, pointed out that the legislator had already clearly defined the concept of construction, which is still in force today and on the basis of which three hydropower plants have already been built. It is incomprehensible that the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment opposes this concept, but has never proposed a different, better solution. It is even more incomprehensible that today, when the fourth hydro power plant is being built, this is the Brežice hydroelectric power plant, so the investment is already being made, the ministry does not know how the agreed concept of construction would be realized. While the applicants recognise that many environmental flood problems need to be solved in the country, flood protections must be built, some may even be more urgent than those on the bottom of the Sava. It is therefore appropriate that the resources of the Water Fund should also be allocated to other projects, but not to projects already under way. In particular, the proposer's representative stressed that the proposed amendment to the law does not mean that funding for infrastructure facilities must be provided from the Water Fund, but that, if there is no other source, it can also be provided from the water fund with the aim of preventing any damage to the infrastructure facility. The proposed law is therefore an emergency exit in the event that the Government will not be able to provide funds from other sources to finance project documentation and build an accumulation pool at Brežica hydropower plant. This indicates that each month the delays in the construction of the Accumulation Pool at the built power plant amount to a circus of EUR 500 000 loss due to the failure to produce electricity. He also recalled that the bulk of the Water Fund is full of concessional fees and water reimbursements paid by hydropower plants, so it is also appropriate that part of the funds be reimbursed. Thus, the Brežice hydroelectric power plant will, once built, repay funds to the water fund by repaying the loans. A member of the Committee from the Positive Slovenia Group also presented the position on the proposed legal solutions. He stressed that the Group supports any investment in infrastructure, including energy, which provides greater economic growth and opens new jobs, but provided that financial resources are provided for such an investment. Due to difficulties in closing the financial structure for the completion of the energy facilities on the bottom of the Sava and the search for an additional source of funding through the Water Fund, the parliamentary group of the bill does not support it. He also drew attention to the fact that 60% of the funds collected from concessions are returned to the municipalities, while the rest of the funds are allocated to the water fund, from which about two-thirds of the funds, that is, some 32 million euros, is allocated annually to flood areas on the Sava River. This means that all those who pay concessions and water refunds in the country contribute two thirds of the funds for flood zones in Sava. In the debate, the Committee identified the amendments tabled by the SDS Group and the SD Group of Members to Article 1. The amendments are identical, according to the content, in that the transitional period with the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group is foreseen until 31. 12. 2015, with the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors until 31. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Committee adopted the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group and did not define itself until the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group, as it became irrelevant. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended law, which includes the adoption of the amendment, is prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u109	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Mirko Brulc has the floor to present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u110	Your Honor! Social Democrats support the construction of hydroelectric power plants because they alone represent an important source of renewable energy. In particular, we support projects that are already under way. The hydroelectric power plant chain at the bottom of the Sava between Boštanje and Mokricami is not only an excellent source of electricity for the entire area, the hydroelectric power plants have also contributed to improved flood protection of the places lying at the bottom of the Sava River. The construction of lower-Savish power plants also has positive effects on the economy, but when this law is adopted in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats we cannot pass the fact that in Slovenia all infrastructure facilities are built practically on the mind, without the final financial structure that is urgently needed before the construction starts and should be the largest framework for the implementation of the project. No matter what project it is, the project is being encouraged, it is necessary to look for new financial resources mainly from a state budget in one way or another. I also point out in the Group of Social Democrats that the adoption of such a law by Members is already in the dissolution of the National Assembly, ad hoc solutions that are not necessarily the best. As Mrs Andreja Jerina, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment said, a comprehensive solution must be sought as soon as possible, consistent with national and European policies and will provide sufficient financial resources for the construction of other hydropower plants, not only in the area of the Lower Sava, but also in other Slovenian rivers with potential for electricity production. The law before us is only a bridge to the current problems in the construction of the Brežica hydropower plant, and in the future it will be imperative to find a comprehensive solution, otherwise, if we remember the river History is repeated, after a year or two while building the next hydro power plant on the lower Sava, the law will again with this title on our benches. Let me remind you, honourable Members, when we passed the basic law on the terms of the concession to exploit the energy potential of the Lower Sava. This was in October 2011 at the last meeting of the National Assembly prior to this discharge. The marriage proposal was just like today. Andrej Vizjak. Mag. Andrej Vizjak said in his presentation of the law that the construction of the Krško hydropower plant was stuck in the provision of funds for the financing of the Accumulation Pool of this power plant and it is necessary to adopt a law to ensure that similar embarrassment – insecure and unstable financing – is not repeated in the construction of the other two power plants. The solution foreseen by the law was to finance the construction from the so-called climate fund or the Climate Change Fund. We are now in June 2014, this National Assembly is already disbanded, but we are again considering amendments and additions to this law. And who's the proposer? Again, Mr. Magus. Andrej Vizjak. Since the solution that we had legally failed to prove effective and the so-called climate fund is not being filled as planned in 2011, and the next hydropower plant is being built in the financing of the construction, we are once again faced with a change in the law that would re-finance the infrastructure to the so-called water fund, five minutes before the end of the mandate. In the Social Democrats' Group, we have tabled an amendment to the law in relation to the treatment of the labour force in order to extend this earlier period when the construction could be invested from the so-called water fund only until the end of 2014 in order to bridge the situation. I'm afraid the amendment wasn't voted out. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are aware that the most expensive investment is the investment that stands and does not work on it. However, we point out that too many times, large investment infrastructures stop because of the lack of financial resources that the policy is looking for most quickly, with ad hoc solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u111	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Alliance's Group, Mr Alenka Bratušek will present his position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u112	Thank you for your word. Respected and respected! Today we are considering a proposal for a law that seeks to ensure the smooth financing of the remaining part of the hydroelectric power plant chain in the lower Sava and a transitional period in which financing of water and energy infrastructure for the construction of hydroelectric power plants in the lower Sava from the Water Fund or other budgetary resources can be extended for an additional two years. The applicant would like to see possible funding for infrastructure facilities provided in the Climate Change Fund provided by the Water Fund or other resources. This is because in 2011 it was not possible to fully anticipate and predict the replenishment of the Climate Change Fund from 2013 onwards. Due to the unforeseen extremely low price of CO2 coupons and the low demand for them in the Climate Change Fund, there is insufficient funding for the financing of water and parts of the energy infrastructure or the smooth continuation of the construction of the Brežica hydroelectric power plant. Money is needed for the design and assembly of the call for the construction of the infrastructure part of Brežice hydropower plant The foundation stone for the Brežice hydroelectric power plant was laid this year. HE Brežice will be the fifth power plant in a chain of six on the lower Sava with a rated power of 45 megawatts and production of 161 gigawatt hours per year. With this power, approximately a percentage of the current annual electricity production will contribute to the state electricity system. The Brežice hydroelectric power plant began building two years later than the original plans. This is also the essence of the problem, as the infrastructure part of the power plant needs to be built together with the energy industry and since the money for building the infrastructure work is not yet provided, the proposal for a law provides the legal basis for the payment of the necessary resources from the water fund. In the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek Group, we abstained at the meeting of the parent working body in the decision-making process. On the part of the competent minister, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, we have been warned that a comprehensive solution should be adopted that is consistent with national and European policies and that will provide sufficient resources for financing and construction. According to them, too much resources are allocated from the water fund for the needs of hydroelectric power plants, and too little resources are available for the needs and for the construction of flood safety in other regions of Slovenia. It also gave its view to the Ministry of Infrastructure, which stressed that it is crucial for them to continue the projects on the bottom of the Sava and that infrastructure is also being built at the same time as energy works, otherwise there may be delays in operation. We were therefore faced with two diametrically opposite views, but it is worth noting that both arguments are weighty, so we had a dilemma to listen to or what arguments should prevail. In the parliamentary group, we point out that Slovenia must strive for sustainable and secure energy supply. Slovenia must build its energy future in ensuring energy efficiency and transition from fossil fuels from abroad to domestic sources. Also in order to protect the environment and reduce greenhouse gas emissions, we are advocates of renewable energy in the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek. We need to head to the hydro power plant. The country must take advantage of hydropotential and, at the same time, by extracting electricity from renewable sources, it will comply with the European commitment after its 25% introduction by 2020. Construction of the hydroelectric power plant chain is the product of Slovenian knowledge and will also affect anti-floating safety arrangements and the possibility of regulating irrigation of agricultural areas. Last but not least, the funds in the water fund have been paying for all years already built and functioning hydropower plants on all Slovenian rivers, mostly in Drava, as well as in Soča, Savi and so on. Here it is worth stressing that the water fund is not filled from the state budget, but is a dedicated fund with its own revenue. It is true that it is the main, but not the only, recipient of the water fund of the hydroelectric chain on the lower Sava, which is nothing wrong, as the project will actually address both Posavje's flood-problem and municipal infrastructure, the groundwater level and, last but not least, when the project is completed, these hydroelectric plants on the lower Sava will be the second largest source for filling the water fund in the future. For everything we say in the Group of Ambassadors, the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek will support the proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The next position will be the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette. Mr Branko Kurnjek will introduce him.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! In the Citizens' List, we will support the proposal for a law amending the Act on the conditions of concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava, the main purpose of which is to extend the transitional period for two years, in which it is possible to finance water and energy infrastructure in the construction of hydropower plants on the Lower Sava, also from the Water Fund or other budgetary resources, in order to prevent delays in the completion of projects. We support the novel for the reasons set out in the draft law by the proposer and the reasons given by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space to amend the law. This was supported by the amendment of the law, unlike the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment. At least such were the positions of the ministries on the home committee. Unfortunately, the Government, which carries out ongoing business, has not prepared a unified and coordinated opinion. If I just give you a few reasons to support the amendment of the bill. Firstly, the funds for the construction of the hydroelectric power plants of the lower Sava could also be used by the Water Fund under the applicable law by the end of 2013. Due to delays in the construction of projects, the loss of these revenues could have even more and longer-term consequences in the time frame of completion of projects. The new law therefore provides for an extension of the drawdown of resources from the water fund as early as 2014 and 2015. Secondly, according to the competent authorities and even after the logical course of things, it would also be a delay in the construction of projects on the bottom of the Sava also to postpone the implementation of projects on the Central Sava and thus to complete the entire network of energy and other infrastructure projects on the whole of the Sava. Thirdly, it is not enough, even in public, to stress that it is not only the construction of hydroelectric power plants on Sava, but also the counter-flooding of the area or area. Fourthly, each closure of the projects already started is a huge economic damage. The fact is that the objects will be completed once. Later on, they will take advantage of their economic potential. Respectable. Any project, idea or regulation going towards the construction or development of the infrastructure necessary for the economic development of the country or part of the country should be supported. Of course, if it's based on some healthy foundation. The construction of hydroelectric power plants, which is provided for by a basic regulation, is certainly such a project. In addition, the project, which is also much more "green" and focused on sustainable energy use than for example TŠ6, is a project with TES6 which we retread and retread. Otherwise, the construction of hydroelectric power plants is also focused on its own supply of electricity, which is also one of the strategic directions of our country, as of course all countries in the world. The construction and thus the operation of power plants in addition to the supply of their own electricity later also means certain necessary new jobs. For the reasons listed and also for some other reasons, and in particular in order to avoid causing unnecessary economic damage, as already announced in the introduction, we will support the amendment of the law in the National Gazette. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u115	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, the position will be presented by mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u116	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. It's a nice greeting for everyone! We have before us the proposal for a new law on the terms of the concession to exploit the energy potential of the lower Sava. This amendment seeks to achieve a two-year extension of the transitional period in which it is possible to finance water and energy infrastructure in the construction of hydropower plants on the lower Sava also from the Water Fund or other budgetary resources. In this way, the proposer wishes to ensure the smooth financing of the remaining part of the hydroelectric power plant chain in the lower Sava, which remains the basic source of funding for this infrastructure in the future Climate Change Fund established in accordance with the law governing environmental protection. Unfortunately, the unforeseeable low price of CO2 coupons and the low demand for them in this fund did not provide sufficient funds to finance the water and parts of the energy infrastructure or the smooth continuation of the construction of the Brežica hydroelectric power plant. The energy part of this plant is already being built and the construction of the project documentation for the Accumulation Pool, which would require a circus of €4 million. The applicant therefore wishes to provide a formal basis by means of the proposed amendment to provide funds for the smooth implementation of the activity, both in the acquisition of construction documentation and in the selection of operators for the infrastructure part of the Brežica hydropower plant. In the DeSUS Group, we are not united in supporting the bill. The fact is that the novel is simply foregone or bypassing a situation that does not nearly close the financial structure of the project. It also disturbs us that this transfer of funds takes place during the electoral campaign and that the proposaler is SDS. The previous transfer from the water fund to another fund was carried out during the electoral campaign, even at the time the SDS proposalr was a candidate, so I expect them to decide once again whether to draw from one fund or another. According to our assessment, it is essential to provide water infrastructure, but in line with the water management plan. In view of the funding sources mentioned above, priority should be given to those areas where flood risk is the largest and for this purpose a so-called water fund has been established. Already 50% of the funds from the fund are earmarked for the construction of the hydrocentral. There is a lack of funds to build anti-floating security, which some estimates would require some €1.2 billion. We cannot ignore the fact that the more resources we spend on building hydropower plants, the less they are available to regulate watercourses and build flood protection, and we all know that Slovenia is flooding more and more. In addition, we would like to draw attention to the fact that 60% of the funds collected from concessions are returned to the municipalities, while the rest of the funds are allocated to the water fund, from which about two-thirds of the funds, i.e. around EUR 32 million, are allocated annually to flood areas on the Sava River. This means that all those in the country who pay concessions and water refunds contribute two-thirds of the funds for flood zones in Sava. In the DeSUS Group, we advocate any investment in infrastructure that provides greater economic growth and opens new jobs, but provided that such an investment is provided with financial resources. However, this concrete project has serious difficulties in closing the financial structure to complete the energy facilities on the bottom of the Sava. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we are not convinced that the right solution is to seek an additional source of funding through the Water Fund and we will, as has already been said, vote in our conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Christian Democrats support the use of different energy sources and the development of new technologies. Energy is a condition for life and also for the economy. It depends on quality of life, growth of the economy, competitiveness and jobs in Slovenia. The objectives of our energy policy are safe supply, environment and climate-friendly acquisition and use of energy, appropriate and competitive prices. Increasing energy needs, high energy prices, increasing international supply risks and growing dependence on politically unstable areas underline the need for long-term common energy supply concepts. In 2012, the Act on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the lower Sava replaced the previously applicable law with the same name. The purpose of the two laws was to ensure the construction of hydroelectric power plants on the lower Sava, the fulfilment of certain requirements for flood management, the release of spatial reserves that hindered infrastructure regulation and economic development and strategic guidelines for the supply of electricity from hydro power plants to Slovenia. With the proposed amendment and supplementation of the Act on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava, it is proposed that the period during which water and energy infrastructure facilities can be financed in an indivisible manner also from the Fund for Water or other budgetary resources be extended by two years, which is until the end of 2015. This will allow for a smooth continuation of the construction of the infrastructure part of Brežica hydropower plant. The proposed funding for the further construction of the water and energy infrastructure in an indivisible relationship from the Water Fund means that the Brežice hydropower plant will begin to restore funds to the Water Fund through part of the concession fee and the water refund and thus start to finance the Water Fund for other flood projects. Since the proposal, in our view, is good and has wider benefits for achieving climate and environmental objectives and for reviving the Slovenian economy, we will support Members from New Slovenia – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u119	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Tomaž Lisec will present his position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u120	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues, my friend! New Law on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava submitted by the fellow Member of the Magi in the procedure. Andrej Vizjak, with all the support of all SDS Members and Members of the SDS Group, extends the transitional period for two years, in which it is possible, and not mandatory, to finance water and energy infrastructure in the construction of hydroelectric power plants on the lower Sava, thereby ensuring smooth financing and completion of hydropower plants on the lower Sava. And marriage isn't just about Posavia. The positive effects of the adoption of this law are very broad. First time. Completion of an important infrastructure project for the construction of hydroelectric power plants at the bottom of Savi. Thus, the construction of the infrastructure project and more – the work will be made possible or made possible mainly by construction operators. At a time when only individual local communities are making most of the investments, the construction sector will obviously be long removed from the shock from 2009 onwards. Another time. It is the generation of electricity in the context of the acquisition of clean renewables. So, it's against all those projects or all those that support environmentally-disputed projects like TES6. Third time. Great flood protection. I come alone from Sevnica Municipality and believe me, I know what I'm talking about. For the floods of the past years have not spared even Posavia. And before the completion of the hydroelectric power plant chain at the bottom of the Sava, the dedicated funds will be provided for other projects in other parts of Slovenia, but they must have investments prepared and not just talk about them. Fourth time. Water treatment. After the discussion on the parent working body, we felt that Sava did not have its own tributaries and that only other rivers with water streams, as some other opponents and doubters would like to show in this law as well as in the hydroelectric power plant project on the lower Sava, were opposed to the fact that the resources from the Water Fund were intended for the construction of hydropower plants on the lower Sava; which seemed to forget that the Water Fund was filled directly at the expense of hydropower plants. Fifth. Possible irrigation on Sava and the possibility of developing tourism in Posavje. In addition to the energy pool, Posavije is also known as a region that is an agricultural region with great potential in the field of tourism. On this occasion, let me mention that the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, i.e. the Ministry of Field Affairs, is still looking for new and new reasons why it does not give in the Government the approval of a regulation on the use of power-driven vessels at the hydropower plant of the lower Savi, at the Bosniak hydropower plant and then also at all hydropower plants downstream. Six. Cross-border influence and cooperation with the Republic of Croatia in this area as well. It's a week. If the law is not adopted, the possibility of the construction of the Brežic hydroelectric power plant and the Mokric hydro power plant being transferred to an unknown future is greatly increased and the construction of the hydropower plant is damaged by the amount of EUR 600,000 per month. Not to mention that the Government has not already released a previously approved loan by the European Investment Bank of EUR 75 million. However, I have probably forgotten the positive impact of the adoption of this law. And the government? The government doesn't even have an opinion. The government that does business is therefore functional only where it seems to fit. Moreover, the competent Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment even opposes the law and says that the law is not systematic, although we have been discussing this topic since 2000 and the same title has been passed in 2011. Either the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment is making a fool of itself or I don't know what's going on or he just can't do his job. Fortunately, there are people at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space who understand the purpose of the law. Fortunately, there are also Members and Members from other groups of Members who will support this law. On behalf of the SDS Group of Members, on behalf of the proposers and on behalf of Posavja – thank you. Let me finish. The fact that the matter is serious is sufficiently clear that the next Monday is called an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on the theme of the hydroelectric power plant at the bottom of the Sava due to the blockades on the financing of the project. This law is only a stone in the mosaic of faster construction and completion of hydropower plants on the lower Sava. That is why, of course, we will be supporting the law as proponents in the SDS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u121	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, Mr Branko Ficko will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u122	Your Honor! In the Group of the Positive Slovenia, economic development and job creation are crucial for the recovery and financial stability of the crisis. In this context, development projects, investment in infrastructure, including energy, are extremely important, especially in renewable sources, for which programme-based and development-oriented budgets and other financial resources need to be developed. The energy potential of Sava or the construction of hydroelectric power plants is undoubtedly evident. The proposed amendment therefore stresses, as the main objective, the provision of uninterrupted funding for the remaining part of the hydroelectric power plant chain in the lower Sava and the transitional period during which it is possible to finance water and energy infrastructure – a more specific hydropower plant Brežica – from the Water Fund, to be extended by two years, i.e. until the end of 2015. Initially, financial resources from the Climate Change Fund under the Environmental Protection Act were earmarked for the construction of the infrastructure following the adoption of the Act in 2011, as the same applicant then referred to an excessive burden on the water fund. This is in line with the Water Act, aimed primarily at financing flood protection projects and regulating watercourses and, in view of the increasing frequency of storms and floods, its burden is increasing, mainly due to energy interests. Today, due to the changed situation, financial resources are being repositioned. In Positive Slovenia, we find such an approach questionable, as this novel does not solve the underlying problem. Why? For each investment, in this case the construction of hydroelectric power plants on the Lower Sava should be sought at the right time to round up the financial structure. Any investment, especially the construction of hydroelectric power plants, is important for this country and the problem arises from sources of funding. When we talk about a water fund, we need to know who is paying for it and what areas these funds are used for. It is paid by water concessionaires, of course also energy, all those who use water, so-called minerals, drinkers, thermal spas and so on. The funds should be intended for the flood protection and management of watercourses in the territory of the whole of Slovenia. This means that energy companies have the advantage of going to the concession-paying financial resources immediately back to the municipalities of 60%, while the second part, 40%, is flowing into the water fund. And in this case, it's the inequality of the terms of the payers. The past facts show that two thirds of the water fund funds are paid annually for water infrastructure in the Sava flood zones, while the remaining environmental projects in other regions of Slovenia are not sufficient. Therefore, on this issue, let me conclude that in Positive Slovenia we cannot get rid of the feeling that we are trying to resolve the interests of individual spheres with such solutions. However, from the point of view of the importance of the infrastructure facility, I understand the position of the proposer and of both ministries. In Positive Slovenia, of course, we do not agree with this type of funding, but we will not oppose the bill. We support investments, including the completion of this investment on the lower Sava, we want as soon as possible new investments on the Mura River. I hope, of course, that at that time the same conditions for providing funding as for the Savoy below will continue to apply. We point out, however, partial solutions that allow funding first from one fund, then from another fund, where there are more resources. Even with the knowledge that the Court of Auditors has already found that the funds of the water fund are being used inadvertently, our warning is so much more on the spot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Visac. You've got procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u124	Yes, thank you very much. I have a procedural proposal, Mr President-in-Office. Look, I'm extremely disappointed that there are no government representatives here today. The government should have a position on such a proposal and not have it. The President-in-Office, not only is it unworthy, but it is also substantively unacceptable for us to decide here on matters that the Government does not have an opinion on or on the Committee itself we have heard the arbitrary opposite opinion of the two pillars. And today I listened to the obvious when Vizjak again proposed the law on the lower Sava during the pre-election period. Respectfully, I would not have proposed this law, not in 2011, not today, not if a source of funding had been provided by the candidate, by the Government's authorising officer, under the Act on the conditions of concession for the lower Sava. If the MKO, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, had proposed a normal financial structure for this project to be carried out on an ongoing basis without congestion, I would not have introduced any law, as it would not have been necessary. However, I have been warned by the water infrastructure operators on the bottom of the Sava that if no source is provided for the continuation of design, the selection of the contractor and the purchase of land, construction will stop within one month of this year. She can't wait for a future government or any government to stop in a month. And we don't want that. And in addition to being an important infrastructure energy project, this project is also important for the anti-floating protection of Posavje, including the municipalities of Krško and Brežice. It's important to economic activity. Last but not least, it is important to protect and raise groundwater in the Krko-Brežiške field and also for the possibility of irrigation and development of agriculture. Therefore, we must not allow the negative position of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment to stop such a project. And, see, as the government is demonstrating this today, because today there is, Madam President, once again procedurally, I propose that it should not happen in Parliament that the Government does not have a position on one thing. The MKO has a negative position, the energy ministry has a positive position, the Prime Minister of the Government comes to lay the foundation stone, the construction begins, but there is no solution to the financing of the part of the infrastructure that the State is in charge of. In short, this is unacceptable, and as a member of parliament, I was just solving the situation, and today I'm listening to the obvious why I'm doing this. I'm working to keep this country out of harm's way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u125	Thank you very much for this procedural proposal. I can also agree with him and find that the Government is not really here today. However, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Government may be present and may decide not to be present at the meeting. So that the conditions for the meeting are in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and are enabled. However, let me also recall that the Government has not even announced the time and no time to present its opinion, nor has it announced any of the representatives who are supposed to be here. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made on Friday, 20 June, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. But we're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, that is to say the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the exclusion of the possibility of disabled persons, a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. As far as I can tell, none of the government's representatives are here. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, good-bye! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, as a working mother, considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on the Equalization of the Opportunities for Persons with Disabilities, submitted by the Government to the Assembly by means of a proposal for a review and adoption following a reduced procedure, which was also endorsed by the College of the President of the National Assembly. Representatives of the proposer with the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities participated in the work of the Committee, a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service and a representative of the State Council, as well as representatives of a number of disability organisations and societies. The Committee received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Services, which made comments to the text submitted in general and of a specific nature. It submitted its comments to Articles 2, 4, 8, 11 and 15. On the basis of these comments, amendments were tabled by the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. The representative presented the draft law briefly, and the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the amendments of the SD Group of Members followed their comments to a large extent. In the debate, the discussers stressed their support for the bill as it reduces procedural bureaucracy. The representative of the Sunček Union considered that the draft law had ignored a particular group and had also overlooked the area of personal mobility referred to in Article 20 of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, as it provided only for the payment of vehicle adjustments for persons with disabilities who had or could buy a vehicle. He said that while they had cooperated in the drafting of the law, their comments were more or less ignored. The representative of the Dlan Society suggested that an interpreter for deaf people would also be added to the measures to address barriers to access to goods and services. On the basis of the shorter debate and the Minister's agreement with the proposal, the Committee adopted its amendment, which included the proposed supplement in the provision. At the end of the day, the Committee adopted all the articles, and a draft law is prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Darko Jazbec, the Group of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u128	Chairman, thank you so much for your word and a nice greeting to all present! The proposal for a law that we are considering today primarily covers the area of equal opportunities and non-discrimination of persons with disabilities. As such, it is intended to supplement existing legislation on the prevention of discrimination based on disability. Therefore, the key task of the law is to systematically prevent discrimination on the one hand and to promote equal treatment on the other. Today's amendment to the law shows that despite good solutions to existing legislation, this from 2010, the area of equalization of opportunities for people with disabilities has not yet been optimally regulated. If we are based on the assumption of non-adaptability, the lack of access to the environment, which is often the reason to put people with disabilities in an unequal position and not on the disability of the disabled, solutions are proposed to move in the right direction. The proposed novelty facilitates co-financing of technical devices for disabled persons with sensory disabilities and facilitates co-financing of vehicle adjustment to disabled persons. In doing so, let me say that dogs assistants are considered as technical aids in this case. So far, this has been done through public procurement procedures. There's been quite a few problems here. We know that when it comes to public procurement, it is decided on the basis of the lowest price, and it is not possible to select operators and so on. This amendment is a proposed solution, namely the implementation of valuations that will enable disabled persons to pay for technical aids and to make adjustments to the vehicle. This is also in line with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which obliges countries that have ratified it to respect fundamental principles that include respect for inherent dignity, personal autonomy and freedom of choice and individual independence. The solution so far has shown that beneficiaries are limited in their choice, accessibility and choice of operators. All assistants will help disabled persons to manage their daily responsibilities and tasks by enabling them to become more independent and independent. Thus, these individuals will be more likely to become involved in society. The Allies of Alenka Bratušek will welcome changes and the amendment of the law will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u129	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Mr Branko Kurnjek will present his position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u130	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Messengers and Members! There is almost no human among us who would not otherwise meet people and with disabilities. Because this group of people represents almost a tenth of the population of the Republic of Slovenia. Either we are alone in this group, our family members or friends, or we have worked with them or for them, and we have met with them. If it was already nature or an accident that made normal life difficult for people with disabilities, at least the country should be the one to make it easier or easier for them to do so. It is the duty of the State to do so under the laws of nature written by our laws and also in accordance with the international conventions. The proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Equalization of Opportunities for Persons with Disabilities provides solutions that further equate the opportunities of disabled persons with other people. Some solutions go in the direction of greater autonomy in decision-making and choice. This is, for example, a change in the payment of technical devices and the execution of vehicle adjustments that will no longer be ordered through a public contract, but that the beneficiary will have a greater choice of the device seller or service provider. On the other hand, the proposal of the novel gives the most difficult and difficult disabled an opportunity to obtain a dog helper. So basically something like a blind and visually impaired opportunity to get a guide dog. The new law brings even smaller changes, making it easier for individuals to obtain technical aids, such as raising the threshold by which the aid is considered simpler and will no longer need to obtain a personal expert opinion. We all know the word that the chain is as strong as its weakest member. This river can also be passed on to a society of which we are or are individuals. Not only by this law, but in general, we are doing everything we can to make our weakest articles as powerful as they are. In the Civil Gazette, we want a chain of equal people and people with equal opportunities, so we will of course support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u131	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, Mr Jakob Presečnik will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u132	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we always support measures and legislation that offers equal opportunities for people with disabilities and which improves lives for people with disabilities, even if they are only partial measures or minor steps. In doing so, we are always considering the opinions and comments of disabled organisations, which, in the case of the proposed amendments, are quite contradictory. The National Council of Disability Organisations supports the law and believes that the initiatives that disability organisations have been referring to the competent authorities will finally be legal for several years, and they hope that the country of rights resulting from the proposed legislative changes will also be able to actually implement and finance them. They also pointed out that the consultation of disability organisations had not been carried out to the extent that it was enshrined in the introduction of the bill, which did not affect their position on the content of the law itself. It is worrisome that even the advocate of equal opportunities points out that the proposed amendments were not prepared in accordance with the rules of public hearing and that many have not had the opportunity to cooperate and give opinions. In addition, some disabled organisations point out that the proposal is contrary to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Among other things, it does not regulate rights for disabled deaf persons and does not allow voluntary choice to exercise the right of persons with disabilities to mobility. It is also unusual that instead of implementing existing laws and adopting the necessary regulations with which it is late, the Government would rather quickly propose new amendments to the law, which are obviously not harmonised and clear. What, then, is the urgency and urgency of laws that make certain financial commitments that are unclear or that will be enforceable? There is a great deal of uncertainty as to the way in which the valuation or use of the value is used, which, despite the adoption of certain amendments on the home committee, is no more clearly regulated. One of the positive changes is the right to obtain a trained helper dog for the most difficult and difficult disabled, which will not be implemented until the end of 2015. The amendments to the law also concern the modification of the payment of technical devices and the implementation of the vehicle adjustment and the new possibility of co-financing the individual vehicle adjustment. Instead of the currently valid choice in the procurement process, purchase and payment shall be made on the basis of the valuation of any supplier of technical equipment or the execution of the vehicle adjustment to any contractor in the Republic of Slovenia. This sounds like simplification, and on the other hand, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we are asked about the inequality of those disabled people who do not have vehicles or who cannot afford vehicles. How will such persons with disabilities exercise their right to mobility? What's the rush over a thorough discussion about the consequences of these changes? In particular, it is doubtful whether the financial law is feasible and what these changes are intended to do if they bring improvements only to some and if there is doubts about compliance with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and why the group of Deaf Persons with Disabilities is forgotten, as they urgently need at least minimum communication accessibility. Because there are some positive changes and simplifications of procedures, we will support the proposal to amend the law in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u133	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The adoption of the Law on Equalization of Opportunities for Persons with Disabilities in 2010 has taken a major step forward in efforts to ensure and apply equal opportunities for the integration of persons with disabilities in all areas of life. To this end, the law has set out a number of measures. These include co-financing of technical devices and co-financing of vehicle adjustment to disabled persons. The current law provides for the selection of suppliers of technical devices and the selection of vehicle adapters following procurement procedures. The purpose of such an arrangement was to ensure, in the long term, the lowest possible price for technical devices. However, it was found that the price in this way is not necessarily lower and that public procurement limits the choice of beneficiaries and reduces the availability of tools and the selection of vehicle adjustment operators. These two are the first set of changes envisaged by the novel that we are considering today. The DeSUS Group supports the Government's proposal because we agree that the implementation of the valuation system in the payment of approved and co-financed technical aids and the implementation of the technical adaptation of the vehicle is much more favourable to the disabled, because the procedure is simple and means a greater choice of the user himself in the acquisition of the device or in the search of a suitable contractor for the implementation of the vehicle adjustment. Another important change in the law brings a completely new measure which will allow the most difficult and difficult disabled to become fully and effectively involved in society. It is the right to obtain a dog assistant to help a disabled person with daily tasks. The DeSUS Group supports all changes that contribute to improving the quality of life of people with disabilities. This law brings many new and good solutions to people with disabilities and, of course, to their loved ones, because they must all face very different obstacles, which do not allow equal and quality integration of persons with disabilities into everyday life. Simplifying the measures already in place and introducing new ones with this novel greatly improves the opportunities for achieving equal opportunities for people with disabilities, and we therefore welcome the amendments and additions to the law in the DeSUS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u135	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, she will present the position of Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u136	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Slovenia ratified the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities among the first countries in the world. It has thus shown that a modern social state respects the human rights of vulnerable groups. We support the development of disability protection in Slovenia, based on human rights, prevention of discrimination and ensuring equal opportunities. We Christian Democrats have committed ourselves to work to improve the ability of people with disabilities to access technical devices, treatment and rehabilitation and to make the environment and services and goods more accessible to all groups of people with disabilities. The new law provides for a change in the method of payment of technical devices and the implementation of vehicle adjustments. Instead of selecting in the procurement process, it is envisaged to pay both technical aids and to make adjustments to the vehicle by means of valuations. Beneficiaries will receive a value at a level which co-finances a technical device or adjusts a vehicle by allowing them to purchase a technical device with any supplier of technical equipment in the Republic of Slovenia or to make an adjustment of the vehicle to any operator of this service. The law with the right to obtain an assistant dog will allow difficult and most difficult disabled persons to have full and effective cooperation and social inclusion. A smart measure is also the creation of a central record and the linkage of all records to be kept by law. We expect that the result will be a shorter and more transparent process for users. Since the proposed solutions are in line with the programme of Christian Democrats, Members of New Slovenia will vote in favour of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u137	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, Ms Alenka Lampe will present her position.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u138	Dear Vice President, colleagues, colleagues! The amendment of the Law on the Equalization of Opportunities for Persons with Disabilities follows the fundamental principles of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. This includes respect for dignity, personal autonomy, the free choice of an individual and his independence. The implementation of existing legislation has shown that certain provisions of the law restrict access and choice of technical devices and the choice of operators. The basic guide for the selection of suppliers of technical devices is at the moment a procurement procedure that follows exclusively the lowest prices of these devices. Therefore, the proposaler decided to make these tools easier and more accessible for a change that we support in the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia. With the proposed amendment, which I hope will be unanimously supported, we are introducing the values. These will allow the procedure to be simpler, easier, especially for the beneficiary, i.e. the disabled, to be more friendly. At the time of the adoption of the Regulation on technical devices and the adaptation of the vehicle annexed to today's novelty, we believe that budgetary resources will be used more rationally. At this point, I will not repeat the handling procedure itself with the value book, but I would point out that funds for the payment of the technical aid for the disabled are provided at 85% of its value, but for all beneficiaries receiving financial social assistance and for persons with disabilities who are recognised under the rules governing the social protection of the mentally and physically affected person, and the payment of the aid shall be ensured in its entirety. According to our assessment, one of the most important innovations is the acquisition of a trained dog for all those who are hardest or hardest to resist. No doubt these dogs are priceless to these people. They make people more independent and independent. Dogs can open doors, bring objects, collect objects that fall, help them move, and there are many more. These are actions that help these people to live their lives at least as we have been given. Amendments to the law also provide for co-financing of the adjustment of the vehicle to disabled persons who can use the vehicle themselves and to disabled persons who do not use the vehicle, and adaptation is essential for their entry into the vehicle and for safe driving. This novelty also regulates records more appropriately as it establishes a legal basis for their connection. Such a central record will include a record of co-financing of technical devices, vehicle adjustment records and an assistant dog acquisition record. A new record will also be introduced by the Soča Institute and is needed in order to draw up a vehicle adjustment plan and a certificate of suitability and correctness of its adjustment. As it is said, we support changes and additions to the Law on the Equalization of Opportunities for Persons with Disabilities in the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u139	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, the position will be presented by Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Say good-bye again! The Act on the Equalization of the Possibilities of Persons with Disabilities defines the co-financing of technical aids for persons with disabilities with sensory disabilities which are not eligible under other rules, and in life these devices are needed to overcome communication barriers and to enable a safe and independent life. The law also defines another measure: co-financing the adjustment of the vehicle to disabled persons who are able to drive the vehicle themselves and to disabled persons who are not driving the vehicle themselves, and adaptation is urgently needed. The amendment introduces an additional measure to equalize the possibility of disabled persons, which will enable the most difficult and difficult disabled to obtain a trained dog assistant. The purpose of the law before us today is to equalize opportunities for people with disabilities in all areas of life. The provisions of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities oblige countries that have ratified it to respect fundamental principles and to include the freedom of choice and independence of individuals, to take appropriate measures to ensure that they have the same access as others to the physical environment, transport, information, communications and to ensure that persons with disabilities have the greatest possible personal mobility, including access to quality devices available at an acceptable price. The main reason for the amendment of the law is the change in the system of selection of suppliers of technical devices and vehicle adapters, which will then be carried out through valuations and no longer through public procurement procedures. In accordance with the above provisions of the Convention, the proposed solution is thus a law that will allow persons with disabilities, to a greater extent than now, the possibility of free choice, since the disabled technical aid and the implementation of the adjustment of the vehicle will be able to pay with a valuation and, on the basis of the valuation provided, the supplier will enforce payment for the aid at the Ministry of Disabled Care. In the event of an adjustment of the vehicle, the operator will be able to enforce the payment of the service on the basis of a valuation – and will also need to confirm the individual’s institute or expert as to the appropriateness and appropriateness of the performance of the vehicle’s adjustment. As the payment of technical aids is facilitated and the adjustments of the vehicle are ensured by the valuations, the procedure will be simpler, easier and more user-friendly for the disabled as it is now. The Social Democrats, however, commend the Ministry, which, despite the unsuspecting financial situation, has found the means to implement these measures, which are user-friendly and will actually make it easier for people with disabilities every day. We also support the position of the Union of Sunshine, which in the debate on the law has drawn attention to a group of people whose access and universality of the right to mobility is not yet guaranteed, and we will also support efforts in the future to further amend the legislation on the equalization of the possibility of people with disabilities in order to regulate this area as well and to adopt measures for individual financing of personal mobility for persons with disabilities. I would also like to note that we are very pleased to have decided on the committee to make life easier for the deaf, as they will be able to make their way to the interpreter. Because of all the changes and the new developments brought by the law, we will unanimously support the law in the SD Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u141	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made on Friday 20 June 2014 in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, this is, on a second level, a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Access to Public Information, an ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 4 Members with the first signed by Richard Branislje. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the drafters of the bill to Mr Richard Branisl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. On the table we have a new Law on Access to Public Information – novel D. As you know, about a few months ago, March, we adopted novel C, and we have not done our homework in full. When we released the data on bad loans D and E, which were transferred to a bad bank, of course we did not follow the next phase, so that we also offered the public information on these same loans D and E, namely those that remained in banks. Of course, in this case, the banking profession rejects such a solution and has a legitimate right, since it is an intervention in banking secrecy, but we believe that banking secrecy cannot be absolute here, because there is a whole range of other public interests that outweigh this banking secrecy. Why, in fact, should we adopt this amendment of the law and ensure that the bad D and E credits left at commercial banks are also subject to public access and public publication? Because the same issues need to be dealt with equally. We have published taxpayers in this country. Why did we publish them? Because the public has the right to know who they are who do not pay taxes and why a budget hole arises. We've published data on bad D and E credits transferred to the DUTB. Why did we publish this information? Because the public has the right to know why and what credits actually created the bank hole and why it was necessary to recapitalise and financially secure the recapitalisation of banks. And, of course, we follow the third step – we also need to open up information to the public about what those D and E loans that have remained on banks that have not been transferred to the so-called bad bank are, and here too, this transparency is needed. Why should we accept this novel? Also because we follow the principle of righteousness. Someone was lucky that bad credit D and E was not transferred to a bad bank and that bank secrecy was supposed to apply to him, and someone else had not had this happiness and was transferred to a bad bank and data on this loan are publicly available. Such access to public data does not impede criminal investigations and prosecution of banking crime can even benefit. We know what the problems of the NPU and the U.S. Attorney's Office are. They don't get data from banks, they hide data from banks, they don't get good criminal charges, they don't get flawed criminal charges, and we actually have a chance here that these things can be processed immediately. Eminent lawyers have said, quote Dr. Juhart: "Data are not crucial to the committees. Bank secrecy is becoming relative, not absolute anymore. States no longer protect absolute bank secrecy," and "The solution is not constitutionally disputed." What does such a solution mean for the competitiveness of the bank, which is subject to the publication of bad loans D and E? The new committees will trust this bank more, as it is clean, recapitalised and subject to ethical behaviour; poor commissioners do not need such a bank; good commentants have nothing to fear, their data will remain secret; transparency in the banking system actually strengthens confidence in the same Slovenian banking system. There was also concern about the legal position of the customer, in which case the borrower was not sufficiently protected, but let us ask ourselves, because it is precisely because of this borrower who did not repay the loan, for whatever reason it is in fact in [[…]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] these problems, that the tax money of this bank also needs to be addressed and require not only responsibility, but also transparency and public access to data from those D and E loans that are actually dead loans in order to identify all the backgrounds of these banking transactions. [[…]] I suggest we back this up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the representative, Mr Jerk Čehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u144	Thank you, Madam Vice President. That's a good-bye to the rest of us! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions at its 36th urgent meeting on 18 June. The law was submitted for consideration by a group of Members with first-signed Richard Branislje. Members and members of the Committee had at their disposal as materials for the meeting the draft Law of 9. 4th this year, opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 16. 6. 2014 and the opinion of the Commission of the State Council of 18 6. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. No amendments were tabled in the course of business. In its supplementary explanation, Mr Braniselj pointed out that, at the time of the adoption of the Public Information Act in 2003, natural and legal persons were given access to information of a public nature which was available to public authorities, local authorities, public authorities and public authorities and public service operators, and had been recast three times since its adoption. With the latest novelty, the commitment also extended to business entities under the dominant influence of public law. They will become publicly available, inter alia, advisory, sponsoring, donor and author contracts, information on the monthly remuneration of management bodies, management bodies and members of the supervisory authority, the agreed amount of retirement and the total amount of net remuneration paid in the previous year. Important data will be published proactively through publication on the website of the business operator. He pointed out that pro-active transparency through law was also extended to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, hereinafter the DUTB, which would have to publish a list of non-payers on its website. He pointed out that the ZDJZ-C provides, as publicly available, some of the essential data relating to the bad loans transferred to the DUTB. Therefore, on the basis of the ZDIJZ-C, the data are determined only for non-payments credits, which are conducted as weaknesses in the balance sheets of banks and savings banks classified in Group D and E and transferred from banks to DUTB. In view of the huge financial resources invested in the recapitalisation of banks and the need for certain transparency in the cooperation of DUTB and recapitalised banks, which must ensure their future effective operation and prudent use of funds, he pointed out that there was no reason to distinguish between those poor loans transferred to DUTB and those belonging to the same poor rating group. The Government has not delivered an opinion on the draft law. Representative of the Legal and Legislative Service mag. Sonja Bien Karlovšek pointed out that the PSC gave an opinion on the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects. She pointed out that since its adoption in 2003, the ZDIJZ has been renovated three times and the latest novel has expanded the commitment circle. It pointed out that the proposal for a law intended to provide for free access also in respect of the remaining, untransferted loans of non-payments remaining in the bank and which were granted a measure under the law governing measures to strengthen the stability of banks. However, they represent precisely those transactions where access to the decisions referred to in Article 4a to other business entities under the dominant influence of public law persons is not necessary because they are transactions concluded by business entities in respect of their services by their customers. It stressed that such a selective approach to these banks constitutes a derogation from the principle regime whereby information relating to the core activity of business entities under the dominant influence of public law persons, i.e. with regard to users of their services or customers, will not be made public because they do not fall within the information referred to in Article 4a(1). Among other things, it pointed to the systemic regulation of this topic, as set out in the Banking Act. It also highlighted a warning from the European Central Bank. The President of the Commission of the National Council for State Regulations, Rajko Fajt, stressed that the Commission supports the proposal for a law. In the debate, Members who supported the adoption of the bill stressed that the extensive recapitalisation of banks with taxpayers' money, the transfer of bad loans to the DUTB and the continued operation of recapitalised banks represent exceptional economic conditions that require high transparency limits. On the other hand, some MEPs have pointed out the many concerns that the ZPS has raised regarding the proposed provisions in its opinion. In particular, legal and systemic derogations and constitutional concerns regarding the provision of access to information outside the public sector bodies have been highlighted. They considered that the adoption of the proposed decisions and the publication of confidential customer data could harm banks and make their competitive situation worse irreparably. The Committee then adopted its amendments to Articles 1, 2 and 4. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the Supplemental Proposal for a Law, which includes the amendments adopted, is prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Kristina Valenčič will be the first to present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! On 12 December 2013, the Bank of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia presented the results of an independent review of eight Slovenian banks, representing a representative sample of 65% of the Slovenian banking system. The results of this review have shown that the capital deficit of the banks examined or the so-called banking hole is EUR 4.7 billion. On 18 December 2013, an invoice was issued to taxpayers for the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank, NKBM, Banka, Probanka and Factor Banka totalling EUR 3.2 billion in tax money. And I believe we haven't stopped at this point. In the Civil Gazette, we were not thrilled with the recapitalisation, but there was no other solution to the situation. We are aware that if banks do not begin to properly service their economies as soon as possible, there is no hope of recovery and a new start. In the National Assembly, we did not just observe it. On 24 March this year, we, colleagues and colleagues jointly adopted a new Law on Access to Public Information, which introduces, inter alia, pro-active transparency in relation to poor loans transferred to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims or the so-called Bad Bank. In accordance with the above-mentioned amendment, the Bad Bank published on its website a list of bad loans transferred from NLB and NKBM on 17 April this year. State banks and also Banka Slovenije have already pointed out that the publication of these data will cause great damage to banks and the economy and none of this has happened. In view of the huge financial resources invested in the recapitalisation of these banks, the need for greater transparency in the operation of recapitalised banks is certainly justified. It is also justified to disclose to the public certain data on those bad loans of the same rating that were not transferred to a bad bank and remain in these recapitalised banks. This will also ensure the effective functioning and prudent use of resources in the future. This bill therefore eliminates the distinction between those bad loans that have been transferred to a bad bank and those that belong to the same bad rating group and have not been transferred to a bad bank. The recapitalised banks or banks that have received measures to strengthen the stability of banks, like a bad bank, will have to proactively publish on their website information on all the bad credits they will maintain in their balance sheets on the day of the law's entry into force. We are talking about loans where the borrower is generally late to pay for more than 90 days, which are non-solvent, for which an application has been made before the competent court for the initiation of a compulsory settlement or bankruptcy procedure. To put it simply, it is loans from non-payers of legal persons, dead capital in these banks. We will take into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, at the same time we are aware that this is not the first and not the last recapitalisation of Slovenian banks, so we will act preventively and will give credit committees, members of the Boards of Supervisory Boards of Banks and all those involved in the policy of lending, a clear signal that they will act legally, responsibly and economically, otherwise they will not only be under the care of the police, prosecutors, shareholders, but of all citizens and citizens. The aim of the novelty is to ensure that as little tax money as possible will be spent in the future because someone in the lending policy has not been sufficiently economical and consistent. The measures taken so far by the Bank of Slovenia, the Ministry of Finance, the various regulators of the banking sector have focused primarily on putting out fires and not addressing the causes. With the amendment of the law, we will add a small, but not a small, small, insignificant piece to the mosaic of better, more responsible and more transparent bank management. Members and Members of the National Gazette will be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The next position will be the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. It will be presented by Mr. Jakob President. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u148	Thank you so much for saying that. Once again a nice greeting to all present! After about two months of the adoption of the last amendment to the Public Information Act, we have a new novel on the table, which would in fact not be necessary if several amendments were adopted when the previous amendment was adopted, which constitute the essence of the bill under consideration today. Members of the Slovenian People's Party have already said, at the time of the adoption of the last amendment to the Public Information Access Act, that we support an increase in transparency in the functioning of business entities under the dominant influence of persons of public law, in particular companies owned directly or indirectly by the State. And that's what we say today. We believe that such an increase in transparency will help to improve asset and financial management. Members of the Slovenian People's Party have already been actively involved in the process of adopting the latest amendment to the Public Information Act in the preparation of amendments that have gone towards increasing transparency in the area of the past and current operations of banks which have received measures under the rules on ensuring the stability of the banking system. Of course, I have in mind the transparency of the claims that have already been and will be transferred from the business banks to the so-called bad bank. Of course, in the SLS Group, we did not have any reservations regarding the public disclosure of all key information concerning the transfer of bad claims to a bad bank. Moreover, we were among the co-signatures of the amendment, which would also allow the public to publish information on credits that are classified according to international banking standards in group D and E and have not yet been transferred to a bad bank. So an amendment with a content that is practically identical to the content of the novel under consideration today. We believe that, because of the billions of recapitalisations received by the banks, it is only reasonable to make this information public. There are a number of such and different insinuations as to why certain claims have not been transferred to a bad bank, even though they are actually valued as the worst. Therefore, in our view, the disclosure of these data is in the public interest, which must be above bank secrecy because of the huge amount of public funds invested in the Slovenian banking system. In the SLS Group, we estimate that the adoption of the proposed amendment of the Public Information Access Act will not affect confidence in the Slovenian banking system – a hand to the heart, trust despite the numerous billions of recapitalisations by taxpayers at a rather low level – and will undoubtedly help to improve the cost-effectiveness of bank management in the future and to investigate more effectively the procedures for the granting of high amounts of credits without adequate collateral. In the SLS Group we will support the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Access to Public Information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u149	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u150	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! In the DeSUS Group, we supported the previous amendment of the bill with great joy, as we have allowed the public to look into many of the data that were not yet fully available. What we may have been missing from the previous proposal was a view of the bad loans that the Bank's Claims Management Company – below I will say the bad bank – were not transferred and remained in the bank balance sheets as bad claims. When the proposer prepared this proposal for a novel, we were excited at first, because we thought that the proposal for a law was the right answer to our concerns. There has been a great deal of information in the public that many credits bearing the D and E credit mark have not been transferred on purpose to a bad bank with a desire to continue to cover up important data and to hide those responsible for the resulting credits. The Bank of Slovenia strongly opposed this bill before us today and we also wanted the opinion of the European Central Bank in the DeSUS Group. As demonstrated by their opinion, this European institution, like the Bank of Slovenia, does not agree with the content of the bill, as the solutions proposed would violate the confidentiality between the bank and the party, restrict competitiveness and the proposal should not be transparent and similar. In the DeSUS Group, that is why we have come to the dilemma of what position to take. We are aware that literally billions of taxpayers' money have been invested in the rehabilitation of some Slovenian banks. Therefore, taxpayers have the right to know for what purposes their money is spent, what is the cause of the bank hole in the money and, above all, who are responsible for the situation. We would expect the Bank of Slovenia to react in a timely manner to poor business and growth of bad loans, which, according to our assessment of its work, has failed and has cancelled on the entire line. Those responsible for such a bad job should also be responsible for Banka Slovenije, in addition to all those responsible at those banks that have dug such a deep bank hole from which they no longer know or can no longer climb without State aid. Let me express here the outrage of citizens and citizens, when it was learned in the public that, despite the fact that they continue to do bad business, the New Ljubljana Bank has paid off its annual vacation regress; that the New Ljubljana Bank invests a lot of money in the renovation of businesses and in a very unusual way employs staff coming from institutions that are also supposed to exercise supervision over the New Ljubljana Bank regarding corruption and so on. All of this arouses mistrust and anger in people. What's even worse is that the Nova Ljubljanska Bank adheres strictly to its rules in ordinary citizens, taking fine commissions and payments for each job and service, even when it comes to those most poor or those in a similar situation as the bank itself, so that they are doing bad business and, for example, it cuts off a large portion of the cake itself, even though the cake is small and pine, while still allowing anomalies, hiding data and protecting the back of those who should bear the consequences because of poor decisions. In the DeSUS Group, we tend to support the bill because we believe that it is time for those responsible for the poor operation of banks to finally feel the consequences of their reckless and corrupt actions. In DeSUS, we do not claim that all bad loans are the result of corruption. It is clear to us that in many cases the consequences have also been the result of poor business and, on the other hand, many of the credits that were later turned into bad ones were shared on the basis of knowledge, friendships, the influences of important people in politics and the economy. Therefore, it is necessary, in our opinion, to allow for the greatest possible transparency in order to prevent manipulation in style, so that bad loans are not transferred to a bad bank due to the concealment of data. We will therefore vote in the DeSUS Group on our own conscience in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will present his position on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Today we decide on those amendments to the Law on Access to Public Information, which we warned Members of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats a few months ago during the adoption of the previous amendment of this Act. Together with Members of the Slovenian People's Party and the Slovenian Democratic Party, we tabled an amendment in the third reading which, as information of a public nature, also identified data on bad credits in banks receiving state aid and were not transferred to the Company for the enforcement of bank claims. However, this amendment did not receive sufficient support. So today we repeat the drill. The necessary arrangements for public access to data on bad credits remaining in banks recapitalised by state money have also been duly pointed out by the State Council, which, for this reason, voted the procrastination veto on the last amendment of the Public Information Access Act. According to its representatives, the Bank of Slovenia and the Association of Banks of Slovenia presented their views on this law. The bill was not supported by the existence of bank secrecy for so-called bad loans which the banks did not transfer to the Bank's Claims Management Company. As regards banking secrecy, we would therefore like to present our position. In Novi Slovenije we are aware that banking secrecy is a basic postulate of banking business and it is not allowed to be affected in any way if and as long as the banks operate in accordance with the banking rules. And if that were the case, poor loans would not be, or the share of such loans would be low, comparable to business banks abroad. However, a different approach to banking secrecy must be in cases where a bank is created that is not able to cover itself or recapitalisation of private investors, but comes for money in the state budget or, rather, for our tax money. In this case, we have every right to find out whose questions we are paying. The bank hole didn't come about by chance. Christian Democrats do not believe that we have or have had such bad banking experts in Slovenia that they do not master their basic profession. Therefore, we do not believe that bankers could not assess the rating of the commissioners, that they could not assess the risks and calculate the necessary collateral for individual credit. We are convinced that we have such experts and that they are in charge of their work, but these experts obviously had no impact on the key decisions on the loans granted, some of the loans granted, especially in banks owned by the majority state. The decision-making power was often also given to politicians or other grey eminences of Slovenian banking. However, their decision-making power did not bring with it their responsibility for the decisions taken. And that is the problem that we are solving with the proposed amendment to the law. These decision makers must first be identified by their name and function and then called to account, criminally and materially. As long as we allow these people to hide behind bank secrecy, we are actually creating conditions for a new bank hole. Does anyone want it? Therefore, the adoption of a legal basis for public access to data on bad loans remaining in recapitalised banks is not only useful, but a necessary condition that lessons from recapitalisation will not be repeated in the future. Members of the New Slovenia Group will be supported by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Access to Public Information.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u153	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Ms Sonja Ramšak will present her position.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposed amendments to the Public Information Access Act. Indeed, at the stage of the adoption of the amendment of this law, we have stressed that we should have the same access for those loans that have not been transferred to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. Unfortunately, there was no adequate support for the vote in the National Assembly. By doing so, we correct the error at the time, and we believe that taxpayers, say citizens and citizens, have the right to know which are the bad loans, who received them, who is responsible for being granted without adequate insurance, whether by mortgage or in any other way, and if we have invested more than EUR 3 billion in bank recovery, it is right that these data are also publicly available. .................................................. Hopefully, there won't be a need to rehabilitate the bank. For the economy comes signals that economic operators or businesses do not receive loans or that they cannot reprogram their existing loans, regardless of whether they are state-owned banks or where the country has a dominant influence. With this novel, I hope that the changes will receive sufficient support and that in this way we will actually remedy the mistake we have made in adopting the novel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u155	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, Ms Alenka Bikar will present her position.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u156	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! The recently adopted amendment to the Public Information Access Act has, through its implementation, brought a wider range of public information commitments and thus a significantly larger set of information and information available to the general public. In the Group of Positive Slovenia, we supported the latest amendment, but we pointed out at the time that measures must be proportionate and should contain safeguards against abuse. That is why we have not already supported the amendment proposed by the National Gazette, which envisaged the same solutions as proposed by the proposed amendments to the law before us. In addition to the publicly available essential data relating to the bad loans transferred to the Bank's Claims Management Company, the proposed bill also intends to provide for free access in relation to the remaining outstanding loans of non-payers remaining on the bank receiving measures under the law governing measures to strengthen the stability of banks. According to the applicants, there is no reason to distinguish between those bad loans transferred to the DUTB and those belonging to the same bad rating group, D and E and not transferred to the DUTB. At this point in the Group of Positive Slovenia, we point out that this is precisely the situation, whether credit has been transferred to the DUTB or not, as the Legislative and Legal Service also points out in its opinion. Credits classified in group D and E are not only related to banks that receive measures to strengthen stability, but can be led by other banks as loans to non-payments, i.e. as weaknesses in the balance sheets. In doing so, the legal position of the bank's client is neglected, which had no effect on the fact that the bank was receiving measures to strengthen the stability of the banks. Disclosure of information relating to so-called bad loans would thus have a negative impact on the competitiveness of these persons and also on the competitive position of the bank on the market, since, in principle, under the Banking Act, all data, facts and circumstances on the individual party that the bank must protect regardless of the way in which it obtained these data are confidential. At this point, we draw attention to the opinion of the European Central Bank, which underlines that the Capital Requirements Regulation, which lays down at EU level a comprehensive disclosure regime, allows institutions to waive disclosure of information if information is confidential if institutions have obligations towards parties or in relation to parties to counterparties that they commit to confidentiality. However, confidentiality clauses are usually found in loan contracts and thus form a binding relationship with a client or counterparty. The proposed law would thus affect the confidentiality of the relationship between the bank and the customer and the competitive market relationship, since the bank receiving measures to strengthen stability could suffer damage or incur an irreparable deterioration in its competitive situation by disclosing the data relating to outstanding loans. The same applies to the position of its client. Finally, in the Positive Slovenia Group, we are asked how, with the public, credit data that is or will remain in banks will be achieved the purpose pursued by the proposer with the bill, this is to ensure future and effective functioning and the prudent use of DUTB funds and recapitalised banks. The proposed law is intended to make it public only with regard to loans, which, at the date of entry into force of the bill, are kept as bad loans in their balance sheets. For all the reasons mentioned above, we will reject the proposal of the law in the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potrat will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. In these overheated pre-election times, it is probably not popular to say that you will not support the bill, but that is exactly what the Group of Social Democrats will do. It will not support the proposed law, although we have already pointed out in the previous amendment that the public sees corruption in Slovenia as a serious problem, so we support every legal provision that reduces corruption risks and is on the way to reducing corruption. It also seems important to us that the public has access to data that discloses the responsibility for the extent of credits and the indebtedness of the country, and in particular because of what we are covering by recapitalising banks. However, when we discussed the proposed amendment, we stressed in particular that certain urgent procedures must be carried out before we express our position on support or non-support to the law. This was particularly due to the opinion of the European Central Bank, which has also been accompanied by the opinion of the Bank of Slovenia, and we also have the opinion of the Association of Banks of Slovenia that we do not talk about what the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service is. All 4 opinions are in favour of not supporting the proposal. And it does not seem responsible to us that, just before the expiry of the mandate, such a law for which effects cannot be guaranteed in advance is adopted, even more – in the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service, we read that "with the proposed law, its basic purpose, as stated in the introduction, is transparency, which is a prerequisite for demonstrating responsible and verifiable legal and prudent conduct, which is essential for achieving public confidence in those measures and thus for achieving confidence in the government, the Bank of Slovenia, the Bank of Slovenia, the banks under measures and the DUTB, will not be achieved, as the proposed law should only make public information regarding credits to non-payers on a given day. It is not clear how this purpose should be achieved by the public of credit data that are or will remain in banks if the explanation of the law shows that it is intended to ensure the future effective functioning and prudent use of DUTB funds and recapitalised banks. If we come from a democratic and supervisory function of the right of access to information of a public nature, it is necessary to clarify first what needs to be done to ensure public oversight and what can be achieved through public scrutiny. Only the answers to these questions provide for the extent of information that is relevant and needs to be monitored by the public, while at the same time these answers are important in carrying out the proportionality test or in assessing whether the intervention in the competitive position of banks and its parties is justified." The legislative and legal service in its opinion also recalls the non-systematicity of the proposed law, as we should be in the Banking Act on what we are modifying or introducing. We agree with the opinion of the representative of Banka Slovenije that bank managers will start acting differently when criminal proceedings and all compensation requirements in court are concluded, not only in our view of disclosure of the data. It is also necessary to know when the main loans have been created and also to limit unacceptable interference with the understanding of banking secrecy. Let me also focus on the opinion of the Association of Banks of Slovenia: "The existing law unduly interferes with banking secrecy and violates the principle of trust." Again, I would like to point out that the European Central Bank points out that it is necessary to obtain the opinion of the European Central Bank at the time of the formation of the law, and all of this can be read in this opinion if anyone wants to read it. If he does not want to read this, then he does not see the question raised by the European Central Bank: "What are the safeguards that can also be expected and demanded during this disclosure round?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr Jerko Čehovin will present the position on behalf of the Alliance's Group of Ambassadors, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u160	Thank you again, Madam Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! In the mandate of Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek, many steps have been taken in the area of combating the grey economy, the rehabilitation of the banking system, the work on a blacker, more efficient tax procedure and other measures not listed here. The fact is, in the fight against corruption, the most tools for controlling the management of public funds will be offered by the law adopted by this National Assembly in March this year. And this was the novel of the Law on Access to Public Information, which represents a huge step towards greater transparency and effective fight against corruption. This novel, which we have therefore adopted in March this year, has brought major changes to the accessibility of public transformation compared to the 2003 law. The legislation adopted has re-ordered the availability of data for persons of public law. The amendment of the law thus extended the circle of debtors to economic societies and other private legal persons who are under the direct or indirect dominant influence of the State, the municipalities or other persons governed by public law. And all those persons who have so far not been obliged to provide the public with any information must, after a new disclosure, disclose the basic information relating to their operations. Public data are thus information on the type of transaction, the contractual partner, the contractual value and the level of payment and the date and duration of the transaction. Donors, sponsors, consultants, authors and all other contracts having the same effect will also be disclosed. Data relating to contracts for the execution of public contracts, concession contracts or public-private partnerships will also be made publicly available. However, the bill also included a so-called bad bank or, more specifically, a company for the management of bank claims, which became one of the debtors for the transmission of basic data from credit cards that was or will take over. However, not only with regard to the bad loans it has taken from state banks, but also from all banks that have received measures under the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. The DUTB shall also publish on its website information on the type and value of the business of the borrowers, on persons who have granted credit, on the type and subject of insurance and on the final gross exposure to the individual non-payer. In view of the amount of money that Slovenia has earmarked for the rehabilitation or recapitalisation of these banks, we believe that in this case the interest to disclose these data is undeniably expressed. Thus, everything unknown has already been realized. The news that we are dealing with today brings only one solution, and this is the disclosure of credit maps that have not been transferred to the DUTB. This proposal, however, was not agreed with before in the Alliance's Group of Ambassadors, Alenka Bratušek, because we have pointed out through all of this that there is a reckless proposal not supported by the Government, not by the Ministry of Finance, not by the Bank of Slovenia, not by the European Central Bank and not by the professional public, not by the information officer. This is already an alarm that there is something wrong with this proposal, that it is simply not good. With it, we would be able to cause additional economic damage to banks. We do not want to take responsibility for the new instability in the banking system because it will end up on the backs of taxpayers. It should also be pointed out that, unfortunately, the disclosure of DUTB data has not achieved a major impact, except for the two-day reverberation in the media. For the public cannot seek responsibility for the resulting bank hole, the law enforcement authorities, who are in fact the only ones responsible for it, and we have already given not only the possibility of access, but also the imperative mandate and all the necessary tools to find the culprit for the situation. And this is this system law, that is, the Banking Act, which should actually also deal with these issues, the issue of banking secrecy. In addition, it should be pointed out that the public interest in disclosing data in the DUTB case exists as it is a public person established by the State for the purpose of repairing the bank hole. In this case, we believe that the measure was proportionate and that there is a public interest for disclosure. When we talk about banks having to disclose credit maps that represent bank secrecy and have not been transferred to the DUTB, we believe that the measure is not proportionate and we fear that it is therefore unconstitutional. It is, in fact, a populist proposal, unique in the OECD Group of States, which will certainly expel investors to banks and indirectly create a new bank hole and the need for their recapitalisation. Due to the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Access to Public Information, the Alliance Group of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek will not be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u161	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place on Friday, 20 June, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. On the basis of the information provided by the Court of First Instance, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, June 2011 published in Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia No 47/2011 on the municipality of Ankaran. The proposal for a declaration was submitted to the assembly by a group of 21 Members and Members with Mr Jožef Kavticnik, the first-signed. I therefore give the text to the representative of the proposaler of the declaration to Joseph Kavtičnik for further explanation of the proposal for a declaration.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! This morning a good, professional and high-quality debate on the proposal for a declaration on constitutional aspects of the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision on the Municipality of Ankara was held on the home committee. In addition to Members, Members and representatives of the Communities, two eminent legal experts participated. During the debate, Dr Grad also mentioned that he did not know the case in a world where the Constitutional Court in the way that we are dealing with today would intervene in the work and decision of the legislative branch of power. The declaration consists of the signatories, Members and Members of Parliament, taking solely for the defence and respect of the Constitution and the legislative functions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The defence of the Constitution and of the functions of the National Assembly should be the primary task of the Constitutional Court. However, since it was in this case that the Constitutional Court overturned the law adopted by the National Assembly, it exceeded its powers and extended its power to the legislative branch and thereby violated the Constitution. One of the constitutional lawyers even pointed out that the Constitutional Court had taken this decision too far. It is therefore essential that Members and Members defend the integrity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which is given to us by the Constitution in Article 139. If Members and Members did not respond to the Constitutional Court's decision, they would leave the Constitutional Court with a legislative function, which could mean the beginning of the end of democracy in our country, since this act would no longer apply to the principle of the division of power, which is enshrined in Article 3 of the Constitution. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the National Assembly is still solely responsible for amending laws and enacting laws, and this competence and obligation are given to the National Assembly by the Constitution. The Constitution also makes it clear that municipalities can be established only on the basis of law and not on the basis of a decision. So it is the law that lays the foundation for the establishment of congregations. The law can only be adopted by the National Assembly and no other body or institution in our country. The adoption of any law is both a professional and a political act, and the establishment of the congregation is also an expert and political decision that can only be taken by the National Assembly. By a decision of the Constitutional Court, for which Members and Members have tabled a declaration, constitutional principles have been violated. The principle of power-sharing, the principle of the rule of law, the principle of democratic human power, which Members and Members must not allow. For all the reasons set out in the declaration, the National Assembly cannot, in any respect, implement the Constitutional Court decision establishing the municipality of Ankara, neither by legislative nor by other measures. This means that it insists on the valid legal designation of the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, so that the elections can be declared only in the municipalities established by the Law establishing the municipalities and establishing their areas, which was first published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. 108/06-ZUDNO-UPB1 – I say this because of the magnetogram – and later in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, No. 9/2011-ZUDNO-G. Your Honor! I expect that we will support the declaration and thus allow the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to continue to carry out the sovereign, independent and responsible tasks entrusted to it by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u163	Thank you very much. The proposal for a declaration was addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. I give the floor to Mr Jerk Čehovin, President of the Committee for his presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u164	The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered, at the first meeting below, the draft declaration on constitutional aspects of the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision as the parent working body. That's from this morning. Pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 15 of the Law on Self-Governmental National Communities, the President of the National Assembly sent a proposal for a declaration to the opinion of the Coastal Self-Governmental Community of Italian Nationality and pursuant to Article 94, paragraph 1, of the Law on Local Self-Government to the Municipality of Koper and the Municipality of Ankara in constitution. The Committee was informed of the proposal for a declaration published in the Rapporteur, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Municipality of Koper, the opinion of the Coastal Self-Governmental Community of Italian Nationalities and the opinion of the Municipality of Ankara in the constitution. In the course of the course of business, the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia tabled the text of the amendment declaration. In an additional explanation for the parts of the draft declaration, the representative of the proposaler, Jožef Kavtičnik, stressed that the proposed declaration advocated the defence of the Constitution and the integrity of the National Assembly, since the Constitutional Court, in the opinion of the applicants, had seriously infringed the legislative authority because in principle of the division of power, the rule of law and the principle of democracy. He pointed out that the inaction of the National Assembly in relation to that decision of the Constitutional Court would constitute the abandonment of a legislative function to the Constitutional Court. He also pointed out that the Constitutional Court, by its decision, thus not only circumvented the will of the National Assembly, but also the will of the State Council, and created a precedent in the establishment of municipalities. He also presented his opinion by constitutional lawyer Dr Ivan Kristan, who pointed out that the Constitutional Court’s decision, if applicable, would have negative consequences on Slovenia as a legal state, as it was his view that the Constitutional Court would decide against the Constitution and put itself on the Council of State, thereby jeopardising the principle of the division of power and the principle of the rule of law. He pointed out that the National Assembly had acted in accordance with the requirements of the Constitutional Court in the first decision but had decided negatively. The Constitutional Court then ruled against the legislator's will, violating Article 139 of the Constitution in his view. The substance of the declaration is therefore to establish and express the will of the National Assembly that the municipality of Ankara is not established. In his presentation of his opinion, the constitutional lawyer, Dr Franci Grad, stressed that the direct enforceability of decisions of the Constitutional Court is not controversial, but not unconditional. As an example, he cited the correct decision which was the subject of the hearing by which the Constitutional Court established the municipality of Ankaran. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained the opinion of the Service, in which he noted that the declaration was substantively similar to the motion for a resolution three years ago. It presented aspects of the legal nature of the declaration, the principles of the division of power and the powers of the President of the National Assembly. It pointed out that the declaration was not a legally binding act which did not regulate individual relations but had a general effect and that the adoption of the declaration would therefore call for non-compliance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court considers that it is independent and independent and that its decisions are final, authoritative and compulsory, so the National Assembly must not interfere with the work and decision of the Constitutional Court. She also warned that the decision in the failure to sign the elections of the municipality of Ankara would be unconstitutional and illegal. The Legislative and Legal Service therefore notes that the proposal for a declaration is not substantively appropriate for adoption. The representative of the proposer reiterated that the municipality could only be established by law and pointed out that violations of the electoral right of residents in the Ankaran municipality would not occur in the constitution, as they could be carried out within the Municipality of Koper. In his speech, the representative of the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia pointed out that the establishment of new municipalities in the absence of a second level of local self-government makes no sense. In his view, in the present case, we are faced with a lack of respect for the principle of the division of power. By the first decision in which the Constitution was established, the Constitutional Court was to destroy the role of the State Council, and by the second decision in which the Constitutional Court established a way to eliminate the anti-constitutionality, the role of the National Assembly. The Committee considered the proposal for a declaration on the basis of the reasonable application of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly governing the second reading of the draft law, as provided for in Article 171 thereof. The Committee held a debate and vote on the individual parts of the proposal for a declaration and on the amendment tabled by the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia. Different opinions were expressed in the discussion on both parts of the proposal for a declaration. On the one hand, the representatives of the proposers and individual members and members of the committee supported the adoption of the proposed act, with particular reference being made to the need to take into account the opinions of the supreme constitutional experts. On the other hand, it was stressed that even though Members and Members of the Constitutional Court's decisions do not understand them well, they must respect them. Members and Members shall not arbitrarily decide which decisions of the Constitutional Court they will respect and which they do not. In the debate, Dr. Ivan Kristan, one of the constitutional lawyers who responded to the specific question regarding the purpose of the proposal for a declaration [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] At the end of the debate, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service pointed out once again that in the specific case of the Municipality of Ankara, the phase of the dispute had already passed and that the renegotiation of the decisions of the Constitutional Court in the only second point of the sentence to be implemented would constitute an increase in anti-constitutionality and a new dispute, while also jeopardising the balance between the State authorities. The Committee further voted on the amendment of the Ambassadorial Group of Positive Slovenia to the text of the proposal for a declaration and adopted it. When Article 128(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly was applied, the Committee voted on both parts of the proposal for a declaration together and adopted them with 6 votes in favour and 3 against. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the Supplemental Proposal for a Declaration, which also includes the adoption of the amendment, is prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The updated proposal for a declaration is an integral part of this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Slovenian People's Party's Group, Mr Jakob Preseknik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u166	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, a warm welcome to all! Let me start by saying that in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we are appalled that such a document, such as the proposed declaration, was given a green light at the meeting of the mother's working body and thus obtained a seat at the meeting of the National Assembly. According to our assessment, such grave violations of the Constitution, in particular the constitutional principle of the rule of law, which will occur in the event of the final adoption of that declaration, cannot and cannot be afforded by the National Assembly. As is widely stated in the Opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the National Assembly cannot, by any act, or assess the appropriateness of the decisions of the Constitutional Court, but only call for eccentric non-compliance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Nor can such matters relating to a specific matter, in which case the Municipality of Ankara, be resolved by adopting general legal acts such as a declaration. Members of the Slovenian People's Party therefore consider the proposed declaration inadmissible. The application for non-execution of the Constitutional Court decision concerning the establishment of the Municipality of Ankaran is inadmissible and leads to re-constitutionality. In addition, in a particular case, the National Assembly is also not legitimate for the enforcement of that constitutional decision, since at the current stage only a call for local elections is required, which is the exclusive competence and responsibility of the President of the National Assembly, and this is the responsibility of the President of the State to do so, otherwise risks another unconstitutionality. Let me go back a little bit. On 9 June 2011, he will undoubtedly be enrolled in the history of Slovenian judicial practice, at least as regards the relationship between the legislative and judicial branches of the authorities. On this day, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia decided on the initiative of the constitutionality of the Law on the call for regular local elections in the Municipality of Koper, which we adopted in the National Assembly at the end of May 2010, and at the same time established the municipality of Ankara and thus cut off the Gordija knot in which the majority of members of the National Assembly were involved. Shortly after the adoption of that constitutional decision, a resolution on the implementation of that decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the first-signed Member, Dr Luke Jurij, which, from now on, differed by name only. The content of both acts is virtually the same and, therefore, in both cases, is equally unconstitutional. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, at the time of the adoption of that decision by the Constitutional Court in 2011, we said that such a move by the Constitutional Court seemed understandable. Ignorance of the then majority of Members in the process of establishing the Municipality of Ankaran to the express will of the people of Ankara at the referendum and to the Constitutional Court, which, at the end of 2010, ordered the National Assembly for the first time to establish the municipality of Ankaran by law, exceeded all reasonable limits. Therefore, the Constitutional Court, by adopting that decision, had to take appropriate action. Members of the Slovenian People's Party believe that the purpose of today's declaration, which has been discussed, is to force the Constitutional Court to make a major mistake and that the National Assembly is the Constitutional Court's decision. But this, as already mentioned, leads back to unconstitutionality. Regardless of the different opinions on the correctness of individual decisions of the Constitutional Court, in the Slovenian People's Party we are always saying that decisions of the Constitutional Courts should be respected. Where else are we going? Members of the Slovenian People's Party note that the establishment of the municipality of Ankara will be recorded in the practice of establishing Slovenian municipalities as a procedure in which a great conflict of various interests took place at the end of the vote, or an interesting interest coalition formed in this vote, which voted with a convincing majority against the establishment of the municipality of Ankara, which also proved to be at the meeting of the mother's working body, because participation was devastating. In our view, the whole process is a very sad story of the National Assembly, which certainly has not helped to enhance its reputation, which is already at a devastating low level. After all the legal attempts to establish the Municipality of Ankaran failed, we expected a discussion in the Slovenian People's Party on understanding the relationship between the legislative and judicial branches of power between the National Assembly and the Constitutional Court, which would clearly define the consequences of mutual non-compliance with the Constitution of certain undertakings. But the proposed declaration legitimizes the arrogance of the majority of the National Assembly, which obviously can afford anything without taking into account the system of brakes and balances, which constitutes the essence of any parliamentary democracy. In the event of an accepted declaration, however, there will be a marked unconstitutionality which the National Assembly must not afford. The Constitutional Court is not meant only for itself, but it is an institution that protects constitutionality and legality. The enforcement of its decisions is also an obligation and, in particular, for members of the National Assembly. Therefore, we will not support the proposed Declaration in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party in the constitutional aspects of the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision on the Municipality of Ankaran. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, which will be presented by Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u168	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and honourable Members! Members and Members of the DeSUS Group are co-signatures of the Declaration on Constitutional Aspects of the Enforcement of the Constitutional Court Decision on the Municipality of Ankaran. We decided to sign this declaration primarily because in our parliamentary group and even in the party of DeSUS, we oppose the establishment of new congregations, because we believe that further fragmentation of the congregations is unacceptable and inappropriate, even when the newly formed congregation would not meet all the legal requirements for the establishment of the congregation. Moreover, in the DeSUS Group, we believe that small congregations should be united, where, according to our assessment of the small congregation, the country should be motivated by various incentives. However, the additional reason for co-signature is economic-infrastructure or purely strategic. It's Luca Copper. Luka Koper is a strategic investment of the Republic of Slovenia and the border between the municipality of Cyprus and Ankaran would go right through the middle of Luka Koper, which, in our opinion, would constitute a major obstacle to the future operation of the port and would result in considerable economic damage, not only to Luka Koper, but to the entire Republic of Slovenia. It is the only port in Slovenia that represents a window into the world for our country. We are deeply concerned that because of the currently foreseeable differences between Koper and Ankara, we would not be able to build the third pier, which is necessary for further development and even for the existence of this port, as it will only be possible to continue to compete with the nearby Italian and Croatian ports. The third prayer would be scheduled to be located in the area of the congregation of Ankaran, which is already opposed to the construction of only this. Despite the fact that we are Members of the DeSUS co-signatory of the declaration, we are aware of the importance of the Constitutional Court's decision. Indeed, the Constitutional Court is the body that watches over the constitutionality of our decisions, the guardian of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, and we have always followed the decisions of the Constitutional Judges, even though we have not always agreed with their opinions. That's the way it is this time. The DeSUS Group respects the opinion of the Constitutional Court concerning the municipality of Ankara, but we do not necessarily have to agree. Why do we oppose the general fragmentation of Slovenia and the concrete separation of Kopra and Ankaran we have already said. However, the fact is that even if we confirm this declaration, the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia will have to declare the local elections in the municipality of Ankara, in accordance with the legislation in force, including, above all, the constitutional decision. You just can't avoid it. The legislation concerning the congregation of Ankaran is clear. How the procedures for local elections are to be conducted as well. This is a matter of political contention, at first glance of local importance, which, we must not forget, is an exceptional national and international dimension. Since the members of the DeSUS Group do not wish to act unconstitutionally in any way, we will consider how to proceed with the vote on the adoption of the declaration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u169	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Italian and Hungarian Group of National Communities, Mr Roberto Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u170	Thank you so much for saying that. Good evening, everyone! There's something mystical about this story, isn't there? Something very exciting. Making mistakes is human, but insisting on them is "the devil's." And as we are taught by St. Augustine, the devil is above all stupid. A special feature of this story is that it has never been told why this congregation should be established in Ankara. Neither the initiators nor the government at the time, no one — look at the magnetograms, look at the documents — is anywhere to explain why the congregation should be there. She just had to be. The decision of the Constitutional Court mentions the obligation to establish municipalities when the referendum is successful. This means that if a referendum that has been announced succeeds, Parliament and the Council of State and all other authorities have nothing to do. It is said that it is only found that a congregation is formed, and this is it. This is the first very strange story. Another strange story is that, as stated by the Legislative and Legal Service, the establishment of this municipality, which no one knows why it should be established, has also complied with the old Constitutional Court decision of 7 July 1994, in which the Constitutional Court states, inter alia, that "because the referendum is of a consultative nature and does not oblige the National Assembly to establish a municipality only in accordance with the referendum outcome, the question of the constitutionality of the two contested decisions" and so on was the decisions of some referendums which are to be carried out subsequently. Thus, the Constitutional Court in its decision states that this is of a consultative nature and in one of the following decisions that it is fully binding on the National Assembly. Thus, this congregation had to be formed without reason and without respect for the law. She had to be there. There is something that needs to be said, to the public, to you, dear fellows and colleagues, this incredible laziness of manipulating the Italian national community on this matter. The Constitutional Court states, for example, in this last decision, that: "The explicit obligation of the new municipality of Ankara to protect the rights of the Italian national community shows that the purpose of the establishment of the municipality of Ankara is not in any threat to the ethnic composition and associated rights of members of the Italian national community living in the settlement of Ankaran. This conclusion is reinforced by the fact that members of the Italian national community living in Ankara are actively involved in the process of establishing the municipality of Ankaran and have expressed their support for this project before the Constitutional Court." We don't know anything about that. We don't know. The local representatives of the Italian national community know nothing about this. We know that three people have established a society four years ago that has never worked, that has never done anything before. The representative of the Italian national community in the local community of Ankaran was against the establishment of the municipality in 2009. And the present one, of course, is against it. Such decisions under the law in force in the Republic of Slovenia may only be taken in agreement with the self-government community of Koper. And there was no agreement, no one ever asked us about anything, but we were accused of not cooperating, not only did they not know why the congregation was supposed to be, but they never talked to us about the intentions they had. Nothing. So they're accusing others of what they've been doing. They're accusing others. We know this method from 1946 and beyond. So, of course, I will support this declaration. I know it doesn't mean much, but it will mean that, as the Italian national community, we will support something that means trying to protect the rule of law and our situation in the rule of law, because our legal situation in this case has been so disdainful that the matter is more than demeaning.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Ms Janja Klasinc will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u172	Dear Madam Vice President, dear colleague, colleague! As we have already heard from the presentations made so far on the opinions of the Group members, this is an extremely complex issue. The Declaration on Constitutional Aspects of the Enforcement of the Decision of the Constitutional Court of the Municipality of Ankara of 9 June 2011 is a document which concerns not only the Municipality of Ankaran or the Municipality of Koper, but the whole of Slovenia and the gold in the opinion of Positive Slovenia each of us, Members and Members, as they speak of respect for the constitutional position and legislative functions of the National Assembly. It is a reaction to a decision taken three years ago by the Constitutional Court, to which the National Assembly has not yet formally reacted. In the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, which was a party that had not yet been to Parliament, we decided that the constitutional position of the National Assembly should be protected, with signatures supported by a number of Members and Members from some other parties. This declaration is important because it establishes a relationship between different authorities. As I said, this is a very difficult legal issue, on which the greatest experts in constitutional law – not all lawyers, but experts in constitutional law – are, with the exception of one, completely uniform. Type of constitutional lawyers, Prof. Dr. Janez Čebulj, Dr. Ivan Kristan, Prof. Dr. Franz Grad, Dr. Miro Cerar and Dr. Janez Šmidovnik, in their professional opinions, point out that, in the event of the establishment of the municipality of Ankaran, the Constitutional Court ruled for the first time in our history that the Constitutional Court went beyond the constitutional limits of the division of power. The Constitution provides that the Authority shall be exercised in accordance with the principle of the division of power over the legislative, executive and judicial authorities and that each constitutional authority shall act only within its own jurisdiction, with the Constitution of certain powers and shall not interfere with the powers of other authorities. Some constitutional lawyers are even sharper and say that the Constitutional Court has unlawfully adopted the role of legislator. The Court may, under Article 139 of the Constitution, be established only by law, and only the National Assembly and no one else may adopt laws under Articles 86 and 87 of the Constitution. Neither does the Constitutional Court. In our expert opinions, we also note the conclusion that not only the National Assembly, the Government, the President of the Republic and the Court are bound to respect the laws, but also the Constitutional Court, which is why the Constitution is not necessarily what the Constitutional Court says or decides, as stated by Dr. Miro Cerar, among other things. In Positive Slovenia, we have always respected the decisions of the Constitutional Court, but it is obvious this time that this is a mistake of the highest judicial authority and this has led us to a decision on this declaration. The Slovenian legal profession in the field of local self-government, Dr. Janez Šmidovnik, joins in the opinion of his colleagues and says that the Constitutional Court, by means of this decision, has seriously affected the geographical and economic integrity of the Municipality of Koper and, in particular, the port of Koper, which was divided into two almost equal halves between the municipality of Koper and Ankaran. "If such an arrangement were to be enforced," says Dr. Schmidtovnik, "the entire Slovenian economy would suffer as a result." In the PS Group, we do not want to define the content of this decision by means of a declaration, but we stress a very simple and understandable fact. If we want Members and Members to defend the legislative function and constitutional competence of the National Assembly, so that only he can take decisions on the establishment of municipalities, we will accept this declaration, otherwise we will knowingly leave the legislative function to the Constitutional Court and thereby give up our constitutional role and at the same time seriously intervene in the division of power in our country. The declaration that we are proposing will, of course, be broken.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u173	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u174	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Let me point out that what we are discussing is not the conditions and possibilities for setting up municipalities, but is the definition of parliamentary groups or Members to an act bearing the title of the Declaration on Constitutional Aspects of the Implementation of the Constitutional Court Decision on the Municipality of Ankaran. The most frequently quoted sentence concerning decisions of the Constitutional Court is that it is permissible to disagree with them and must be respected. At the same time, I am asked how we can be held to respect the Constitutional Court's decision, and at the same time write down that the National Assembly should not enforce the Constitutional Court's decision. This is stated in the last paragraph that the signatories find that the National Assembly cannot enforce the decision of the Constitutional Court. We have always advocated that the decisions of the Constitutional Court should be enforced. And we have often also drawn attention to the alarming or alarming number of decisions not implemented by the Constitutional Court. Thus, this is the first question that we draw attention to in this regard. The second issue, which has also often been mentioned, is the relationship between individual branches of government. And here I ask a rhetorical question: Will the credibility of the National Assembly be increased if it intervenes and exceeds the decision of the Constitutional Court? In this regard, I refer to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which states: "The National Assembly cannot, by any act, assess and assess the appropriateness of the decisions of the Constitutional Court and also not call for the failure to comply with the decisions of the Constitutional Court." So here is a clear intervention in what is left of us through the Constitutional Court’s decision, which is the call for elections in the congregation of Ankaran. Regardless of who the President of the National Assembly is, this can also have consequences for electoral activities or for the call for elections in two municipalities, Koper and Ankaran. And this is an important fact that we should not forget when weighing whether to support the declaration or not to support the declaration. And a third fact. Here, if I say so, we spit popularly in our own bowl because we will act against the 110th Article of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is also popularly referred to as the small constitution of the National Assembly. Once again, I refer to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and read from it: "The Declaration is, in accordance with the provisions of Article 110 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, an act whereby the National Assembly expresses its general views on internal and foreign policy issues and on specific issues of relevance to the whole country. In this regard, it should be noted that a declaration is an act which is not legally binding and cannot therefore constitute a direct legal basis for the conduct of State authorities." What, then, does the acceptance of the declaration intend to achieve if it is not legally binding and nothing can be accepted on the basis of the declaration? This is a little worse than that half-empty or half-full story, because I think we're interfering with something that's legally very difficult. And I do not challenge the professional positions of constitutional lawyers, it has already been said that they generally agree with the exception of one, that the Constitutional Court has taken a step too far here. But the fact is, the decision is before us and it's enforceable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr Jerko Čehovin will present the position of the Allied Group of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u176	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Although local self-government in the Republic of Slovenia has been operational practically since 1995, the reform of local self-government, which relates to territorial scope, has not yet been completed, as 212 municipalities have not yet been established. From 62 communes in the Socialist Republic of Slovenia there were 212 municipalities in the new country. The last two congregations were established in 2011. More than half of municipalities have fewer than 5,000 inhabitants, although this was the number of criteria for establishing new municipalities from the start, and they do not have a primary school, a healthcare home or a health station, a bank, a post office and so on. Therefore, in the Alliance Group Alenka Bratušek, we point out that in Slovenia, unlike many countries in Western Europe – by the way – we often like to refer to these – which have gone into reducing the number of municipalities in recent decades, to local level, we have fragmented the country. The network of congregations no longer meets one of the basic requirements to be as comparable as possible by their ability to perform their duties. Most depend on the state budget rather than on their own financial resources. However, the underprivileged are not able to take on more complex tasks, since they will also immediately exceed the boundaries of the individual congregation in addition to the required expertise. We do not want to say that everything went wrong in the development of local self-government in Slovenia. Many things have been done in the congregations. However, we would like to point out that some municipalities are making progress, are able to acquire investment funds, and others are failing and totally dependent on the country. The congregation of Ankaran is also one of the municipalities that do not meet those criteria. Nevertheless, the congregation of Ankara must be established this year. In 2011, the Constitutional Court established in its decision the constitutional elements of the municipality, namely the name and territory of the municipality, its seat and the number of members of the first municipal council, and established that the first elections to the municipality would be held in the framework of regular local elections in 2014. A group of 21 members with first-signed Joseph the Cavtičnik is just before the dissolution of the National Assembly, 30. 5. In 2014, the proposal for a declaration on the constitutional aspects of the enforcement of the Constitutional Court decision establishing the municipality of Ankara was tabled in the parliamentary procedure. It notes that the National Assembly cannot enforce the Constitutional Court’s decision because, in their view, the Constitutional Court intervened in the constitutionally defined legislative jurisdiction of the National Assembly. It follows from the explanation that only the National Assembly has the right and the duty to adopt laws and that is why only the National Assembly is empowered by law to establish a municipality and therefore cannot enforce the decision of the Constitutional Court. As a result, the elections can only be signed in municipalities defined by the latest current law before the Constitutional Court. Although the proposal for a declaration is based on the expert opinion of the European Centre for Dispute Resolution commissioned by the Municipality of Koper. The argument or explanation of the declaration is regarded as legally well-founded and valid, but it cannot be accepted that the declaration is binding and that elections in the municipality of Ankara cannot be declared because the hierarchy of legal acts is clear and unequivocal. In this regard, we would also like to draw attention to the powers or responsibilities of the President of the National Assembly with regard to the call for regular local elections, which we doubt could have decided only on the basis of a declaration that the election would not be called for. In fact, the President has already confirmed that he will call elections in Ankara even if the National Assembly adopts a Declaration on the Implementation of the Constitutional Court Decision concerning the establishment of the Municipality of Ankara. As he assessed, such a declaration would not be legally binding and could not go beyond the Constitutional Court's decision. Otherwise, we do not expect any complications in the election. The Law on Local Self-Government, in the second paragraph of Article 15.b, provides that the municipal election commission of the new congregation shall be appointed by the municipal council or the municipal council of the municipalities in which the new congregation has been established. For the newly established municipality of Ankaran, this means that the municipal election commission of the municipality of Ankaran at the regular local elections in 2014 is appointed by the Municipal Council of the Municipality of Koper. In addition, we believe that this issue should be discussed much earlier, perhaps in the previous composition of the National Assembly, as well as at the time of the early elections as well as the near call for regular local elections. The constitutional path of the situation will not be resolved by this declaration. Therefore, the Alliance's Parliamentary Group Alenka Bratušek will not support the declaration by a majority [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u177	Thank you very much. We are done with the presentation of the positions of the parliamentary groups. No amendments to the supplementary proposal for a declaration have been tabled. The vote on the proposal for a declaration will take place on Friday, 20 June 2014, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, that is to say the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the real property of the State and the self-government of local communities after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 6 Members and Members with the first signed by Dr Andrejo Črnak Meglič. In order to further explain the draft law, I therefore give the floor to the representative of the drafters of the bill, Dr Andrei Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u178	Madam Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, thank you for your floor! In 2011, we adopted the Law on Social Entrepreneurship, prepared by the Members and filled the gap in the legislative framework of the operation and organisation of the third sector. The Social Entrepreneurship Act has laid the foundations for the development of social entrepreneurship, but for a greater role, for a greater number of social enterprises and consequently for an increase in the number of jobs in these companies, as well as an increase in the gross domestic product created from their activities, a supportive environment needs to be developed. In 2013, the Social Entrepreneurship Development Strategy 2013-2016 and the resulting Programme of Action for the implementation of the Strategy were launched. At the time of the debate on the adoption of the Social Entrepreneurship Act, we pointed out that a number of remote laws should also be amended. Thus, we have before us an example of the Law on Real Property of the State and Self-Governmental Local Communities, which sets out the treatment of movable and immovable property of the State and the self-governance of the local community and, of course, can have a significant impact on improving the working conditions of social enterprises. We have prepared a proposal for amendments to this law in autumn 2013, but we have, in agreement with the competent ministry, waited for their proposal for more comprehensive amendments to the Real Estate Act and the Local Self-Governmental Communities, which envisaged other solutions and placed in it articles allowing the free allocation of the premises of the State and the local community to social enterprises. Unfortunately, the Ministry was ahead of the early elections. That is why we have decided, even at the initiative of the local communities, that the content we originally wanted to include in this law, the amendment and the amendment of the law should be re- tabled by Members themselves in the reference to this Parliament. The basic objective of the proposed law is to allow free access to the immovable property of the State or the self-government local community to all entities with social enterprise status for a period not exceeding three years. After the expiry of this period, social enterprises should be given the opportunity to rent the same immovable property by entering into a direct contract. The law provides that a social undertaking must continue to operate in accordance with the principles of social entrepreneurship at the time of free use of the premises. In the event of a breach of this condition, the law provides for sanctions for the return of unjustifiable benefits in the amount of rent. Social enterprises in their operations pursue the objective of social benefit, fill gaps in the provision of social services and contribute to increasing employment opportunities for even more vulnerable categories of the population, which is particularly important for the achievement of the interests of local communities. We had to wait 30 days for the adoption of the law because of the business regulations. On the Committee, we have adopted amendments that have been corrected on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, where there have been mostly nomotechnical corrections, and we have also adopted some substantive supplements that now allow the law to be clearer, more operational and systemic, and to stress that I am particularly pleased that all the members on the Committee have been jointly supported by unanimous support. Colleagues and colleagues are again asking for support, as we are called upon to adopt the law primarily by local communities, who want the law to enter into force as soon as possible and to provide them with a legal basis for promoting social entrepreneurship in their environment, with the possibility of free allocation of premises in their possession, thereby creating new jobs and mitigating the social situation in their environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u179	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. The position will be presented by Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u180	Dear Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Social entrepreneurship is a form of entrepreneurship that strengthens social solidarity and cohesion, promotes people's participation and volunteer work, strengthens the innovative capacity of society to address social, economic, environmental and other problems, provides additional supply of products and services of public interest, develops new employment opportunities, provides additional jobs and provides social integration and professional reintegration of the poorest groups in the labour market. These are the objectives of social entrepreneurship, which we opened with the adoption of the law in 2011 and thus provided a legal basis for the accelerated development of the social economy in Slovenia. At the same time, at the time of the adoption of the law, it was pointed out that a number of sectoral laws which are in one way or another linked to social entrepreneurship would have to be amended by the enforcement of the umbrella law and could enable or facilitate the establishment and development of social enterprises. One of these laws is the Law on Real Property of the State and Self-Governmental Local Communities, which regulates, inter alia, the free use of immovable property of the State and local communities. In the DeSUS Group, we find that today a number of ideas of entrepreneurship and integration of different players have already been hampered by obstacles such as spatial issues, as the price of buying or rent is sometimes crucial to the decision to establish an activity. Therefore, it is very important that the proposed law will positively address this issue. Last but not least, this legal change will make the real property of the state and the local communities – because we have many empty, unexploited and unfortunately also decaying buildings, premises and lands – usefully used. The aim of the amendment is to enable access to immovable property for the social entrepreneurship needs of all entities with the status of a social enterprise, irrespective of their status. Since the adoption of the law represents greater opportunities for speeding up the creation of social entrepreneurship and consequently creating new jobs, we support the proposal of the law in the normal working environment of hard-working groups, Members and Members of the DeSUS. We particularly appreciate the content of the amendment of the law, as well as the positive contribution that many initiatives, ideas or projects of activity and multi-participating cooperation can take place at the local level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Saša Kos.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u182	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we have before us an amendment to the Law on the Real Property of the State of Local Communities, which has been tabled by Members and Members of Parliament, including Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia Mrs Žgajner and Mrs Komel. First of all, it is about creating a supportive and enabling environment for growth and the establishment of social entrepreneurship initiatives that are so important in times of crisis. This includes both the active participation of the local community and those who can penetrate the world of entrepreneurship with their ideas. The Social Entrepreneurship Act was adopted in 2011. This has filled the gap in the area of operation of the third sector. The fact that social or socially responsible companies in the world fill gaps in the implementation and production of social services is well known, are socially beneficial and are expanding and complementing the network of existing public services. Their operation is therefore not intended to generate profits and so-called capital reinforcements, but rather to become involved mainly in local environments. This is also why these companies are so much more important for coherent regional development. At the same time, the European Union itself notes that the social economy can be the one that reduces the undesirable effects of the labour market and opens up new opportunities for reactivation of people and their creative entrepreneurial initiatives to tackle unemployment. Unfortunately, the adoption of the Social Entrepreneurship Act was not followed by amendments to other legislation. And that's the main reason for today's change of law. Articles 29 and 30 of the Law on Real Estate of the State and Local Communities provide that real property may be leased on the basis of the direct contract method, provided that one of the following conditions is met. However, in the seventh indent, it provides that non-governmental organisations acting in the public interest may be leased in order to carry out an activity for which they are established or, hence, Article 30, so that immovable property which is temporarily not required by any user may be surrendered for free use by a direct contract to persons under public law for the performance of public functions or to non-governmental organisations acting in the public interest and others. In practice, the provisions have been unclear. By amending the law, we try to enable the rental contract to be concluded with the direct contract method when it comes to renting to social enterprises registered and operating in accordance with the law governing social entrepreneurship. We also want to allow the free use of state property or local self-governance, with the proposal also setting out in both cases the extent to which assets can be used under more favourable conditions. In both cases, it is the property necessary to carry out the activity for which a specific social undertaking is established. That the solution is the right one also proves the position of local communities. The Community of Slovene municipalities calls for the adoption of the law as soon as possible. The Community has been working in the area of the third sector for many years. The main aim is to increase the number of employees, to increase the integration of vulnerable groups into the labour market, and to expand quality services at local level. They therefore stress the need to provide the municipalities with individual tools to help new entrepreneurial ideas. The Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia also supports the bill as it follows the constitutional concept of local self-government and the principles of the European Charter on Local Self-Government. This provides for their appropriate decision-making freedom for local communities to adapt to the implementation of local circumstances. Therefore, colleagues, colleagues, I expect that today we will support the proposal of the law in its existing form and allow these entrepreneurial initiatives to have an additional potential for their development. In Positive Slovenia, we support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u183	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u184	Your Honor! Before us is the law introduced by the group of Members and Members with the first signed by Dr Andrejo Črnak Meglič. This is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Real Estate of the State and the Self-Governmental Local Communities, following a reduced procedure, since it is a matter of less complex but still very important changes and additions to the law, which will allow for a smoother and faster start-up of action and further development of non-profit legal persons of private law, whose special laws, due to their public interest, generally beneficial, humanitarian and charitable activities, have a recognised special status and the development of social entrepreneurship, which can help to reduce the rate of unemployed, vulnerable groups and more coherent regional development, and in this way also have a positive impact on the social field. The main objective of the proposed law is access to the immovable property of the State or the self-government local community for the purposes of social entrepreneurship, to all entities with the status of a social enterprise acting in accordance with the principles of social entrepreneurship, irrespective of their status. The adoption of this law is extremely important for the further development of social entrepreneurship and the creation of new jobs, as also highlighted in their opinion in the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia. They believe that an important change in the law is essential if we are to create new jobs, especially for young people who are looking for their opportunity to generate many creative entrepreneurial ideas and initiatives, but who need further incentives for initial development. The existing legislation is less likely for municipalities to support the initial development of these initiatives, and therefore they believe that the proposed amendments are urgently needed, as this would enable them to do just that. In this regard, I should add that for a long time many congregations have been waiting for the amendment of the law to be made, and I would like to sum up my appeal to the leadership of the National Assembly to accept it as soon as possible. The same intention can also be seen in the opinion transmitted by the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia. In our electoral programme, the Social Democrats point out three points: these are jobs, jobs and jobs again, and we will therefore support the bill in the hope that the objectives and objectives of the law to ensure the conditions for the creation of new jobs will be fully achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr Jerko Čehovin, who is not currently in the Chamber, will present the position of the Allied Group of the Alliance. We're moving to the next position. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List will be presented by Mr Richard Braniselj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u186	Thank you very much. In the Civil Gazette, we will support the amendment of the law. We believe that it is necessary to give the opportunity, additional entrepreneurial initiatives, both to social enterprises and to cooperatives, to other forms of civil society and so on. Only in this way will we create new jobs, reduce unemployment, increase gross social product and thus fill the state budget with taxes and contributions. And for this purpose, it is worth the effort, and this is also followed by this novel. However, if we do not achieve these objectives with the exceptions that we are introducing here, then we must ask ourselves why this is so. It always doesn't work in the performance phase. And I think that a large number of operators will be identified here, which will work, but I also want the founders and managers to take responsibility if this matter does not work. So the opportunity for all, the opportunity for these companies, the opportunity to achieve these goals, but if this is not achieved, then we demand that responsibility be exercised to all. As it is said, let us give this opportunity and we will also give this opportunity in the Civil Gazette. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u188	Once again a nice greeting to all present! The basic purpose of the bill is to enable the state and local communities to rent their premises free of charge to social enterprises. Social enterprises are the ones operating on the market, but their main purpose is not to gain profits, but to act for the public benefit. By definition, such a company includes in its work a significant part of people who can be classified as vulnerable groups. The current Social Entrepreneurship Act has set a framework for the functioning of social enterprises, but it has already been said at the time of adoption that a supportive environment for the development of enterprises should be strengthened and a strategy for the development of social entrepreneurship and a programme of measures has also been developed. It is also obvious that certain laws need to be amended in order to create this supportive environment. The Slovenian People's Party's Group therefore notes that the key substantive changes relate to the possibility of free allocation of premises to social enterprises for a period of three years. The second point, however, is that, after the end of this period of free broadcasting, they may obtain a social enterprise to rent the same premises and do not require a public invitation to tender, but continue to pay the normal rent. Sanctions are also provided for in the event that companies do not operate in accordance with the law, when the ratings received unjustifiably in terms of the exemption of rents must also be reimbursed. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have decided to support the proposal for a law because we agree with local communities and associations that the potential of local communities in the state should be exploited in empty spaces. Social enterprises face hardship, lack of money and appropriate spaces in which they can start implementing their projects and creating new jobs. Unfortunately, Slovenia is not taking advantage of sufficient potential to create new jobs in the social entrepreneurship sector, which also solves the problem of jobs for vulnerable groups and solves the problem of job shortages in less developed parts of our country. In the hope that the proposal will also bring about a change in this area, we will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Real Property of the State and Self-Governmental Local Communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u189	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The draft law will be decided on Friday 20 June 2014 in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to A1. At the end of the day, that is to say a bill on amendments to the system of payments in the public sector following an emergency procedure. With regard to this point, two draft laws have been tabled in the legislative procedure, namely the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System (SSPS), the First Review, EPA 1997/6, of which the proposer is mag. Ivan Vogrin and the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the public sector wage system – ZSPJS-T, urgent procedure, EPA 2049/6, of which the Government is the proposer. The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government decided in the debate on those draft laws to deal with it in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 117 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. At the same time, he decided that the follow-up procedure in accordance with Article 127 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly would be guided by a proposal for a law submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following an urgent procedure. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 117 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I give the floor to the motions for additional explanations. First of all, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Boštjan Šefić, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u190	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! First of all, I would like to point out that the bill before you today has been prepared in agreement with the unions, which we consider to be a particularly good result. As a result, the very content of the solutions is fully followed by both sides, both government and union. Why this marriage? The practice has shown that some issues relating to the return of overpayments of salaries, as regards inspection controls and the above limits on the amount of allowances, are not sufficiently regulated in the law, perhaps not regulated at all or are not regulated in an inadequate manner. Those shortcomings were also exposed by representative trade unions on the negotiating committee. We are pursuing three key objectives by means of this law. Firstly, establish a clear legal basis and procedure for the recovery of overpayments of salaries. Secondly, the abolition of the upper limit of the amount of allowances for less favourable working conditions and risks and of specific burdens which, under the current regime, must not exceed 20 % of the basic salary. Thirdly, the regulation of legal protection against records of inspections and the unequivocal determination of measures to be taken by public sector wage inspectors to remedy salary irregularities and to establish active legitimacy for objecting. As far as overpaid wages are concerned, the solutions are as follows. The general rules of civil law apply to the recovery of overpaid amounts of wages. Alternatively, in the event of an agreement, a public servant or an official shall pay only overpayments for a period of 10 months, the amount of reimbursement not exceeding twice the basic salary of a public official or full-time official for the month preceding the submission of the agreement. In the event of non-conclusion of the agreement, the employer shall require the refund of the full difference between the overpaid and the lawfully fixed remuneration before the competent court. For public servants who have in the month in which a proposal for a debt relief is made for a basic salary determined in accordance with Article 3, paragraph 3, of the law equal to or lower than the minimum wage, the debt shall be forgiven. The compensation liability of the person responsible for the exercise of the rights and duties of the employer shall be determined for the damage caused by the incorrect determination and payment of wages and the entities responsible for initiating the procedures for determining the compensation liability of that person. These are key points concerning this area. For the amount of additives as already mentioned, the overall upper limit of the amount of the allowances for less favourable working conditions and risks and special burdens has been lifted. However, the following solutions are crucial for inspection. First. There shall be a wide range of entities obliged by the inspector to send a record of the inspection carried out. Secondly, the amendment introduces an objection to the minutes as a form of legal protection against the minutes and an active legitimacy to lodge an objection. An objection to the minutes shall be decided by the Minister responsible for the system of salaries. The inspection procedures initiated prior to the entry into force of this Act shall be completed in accordance with the provisions of this amendment. A transitional period of two months has also been set since the entry into force of this amendment, in which the chairman of the budget user may lodge an objection to the minutes issued in the inspection procedures completed prior to the entry into force of this amendment to the Minister responsible for the system of wages. In short, honourable Members and Members so briefly on the solutions to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u191	Thank you very much. I also give the floor to the drafter of the Magi Law. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u192	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It will be very interesting to observe the behaviour of Members and Members on the fact that the Constitutional Court, by decision UI 249/10, is 15. 3. 2012 found that the first to tenth paragraphs of Article 42 of the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages are inconsistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The finding established a two-year period from the publication of the decision in the Official Journal, in which the National Assembly was to abolish unconstitutionality. The deadline didn't come up. The two-year deadline for the abolition of the unconstitutionality of the Public Sector Wages Act is 14 years. 4. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Now tell us how a normal person would feel. I rarely refer to my fellow Members' and colleagues' discussions in my debates, because it does not seem to me to be the most productive, but it also causes the opposite reaction to the desired one, perhaps even someone who feels it as an insult. But I'm gonna touch it this time. Mrs. Potrat, I don't think it's bad now, I think she said it right. She said earlier that the decisions of the Constitutional Court should be respected. In the case of the Ankaran declaration, it is true. In this case, it's not true again. How else can it be explained that this bill, which eliminates the unconstitutional situation, did not actually receive support from the committee. It is nothing but that we must strive, particularly Members of Parliament and Members, for the rule of law. We cannot decide who the proposer is. If I were the proposer of this government – now I do not intend to put the gentleman back here or any way to disrespect him, but if I were a government, I would probably have passed the law. This is an unsustainable state that I think we've been maintaining for 20 years. If we worked hard and looked at what the law was following, we would find that, in the first place, the unconstitutional situation established by the decision, of course, was to be eliminated. Secondly, it is probably logical that every union must have a word in the public sector negotiations with the Government. In this case, we have a union of soldiers – in the Slovenian Army there are employees, I think a little over 7,000 people who do not have the right to negotiate for their rights because, by law, we have legislation that makes this impossible. That's not right. But then we're talking about democracy, about justice, I don't know what we're talking about here, but in practice we're not ready to take steps to make this respectable. That is why I expect modestly, on my behalf, on behalf of those for whom the law has been proposed to be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u193	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. I give the floor to President Jerk Čehovin to present the report of the Committee. It is followed by Mr Sonja Ramšak in presenting the views of the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u194	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Nice greeting, Secretary of State with a co-worker! Thus, at its 37th emergency meeting yesterday, the Committee addressed two draft laws, as has already been said. The first was the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Public Sector Wage System, the second hearing submitted to the National Assembly by mag. Mr Vogrin with a proposal for a short-term hearing, which was attended by the College of the National Assembly at its 100th meeting on 30 June. 5. 2014 has been included in the list of laws to be dealt with on a regular basis. Second, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages, the urgent procedure submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government, and the College of the President of the National Assembly, at its 102nd session, on 13. 6. He decided that the proposal for a law should be dealt with on an urgent basis. Therefore, due to the situation, the so-called hybrid had to be performed. The Committee took note of various materials. First, it adopted the following decision: "The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government will at the same meeting, under the same agenda item, under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the urgent procedure for the adoption of the law, consider a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Sector System of Wages, second reading, EPA 1997-VI submitted to the National Assembly by mag. Ivan Vogrin and Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages, Urgent Procedure, EPA 2049-VI, submitted to the National Assembly by the Government." A further explanation was given below by the representatives of the applicants of the two bills. The priority is the marriage that was first introduced, so he's a mag. Vogrin, as the drafter of the law in the supplementary explanation of the articles, stated that the proposed law follows a decision of the Constitutional Court in which it found that the first to tenth paragraph of Article 42 of the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages in breach of the Constitution and the legislator had set a two-year period from the publication of the Decision in the Official Journal on the Elimination of Unconstitutionality. The author of the bill is the President of the Confederation of Trade Unions of Slovenia and the President of the Union of Soldiers of Slovenia Guido Novak, who has put forward the reasons for the drafting of the law and the objectives and main solutions to the bill. The Slovenian Military Union represents a smaller number of professional groups, so in the process of social bargaining and collective bargaining it is virtually impossible to exercise the interests of employees in the Slovenian Army. Dr. Gregor Virant, Minister of the Interior, who conducts ongoing business, is in the presentation of the Government's opinion on the bill of motion for mags. Mr Vogrin stressed that the Government does not support the law, not because of substantive or professional concerns, but because of the shift from the practice of harmonisation of changes to the law with representative trade unions in the public sector. He stressed that the quorum's regulation was very sensitive and difficult, and the Government's efforts to provide an appropriate legal solution, consistent with the Constitutional Court's decision and concluded with the two negotiating groups of public sector trade unions, namely the negotiating group of trade unions led by Drago Ščernjavič, as well as the negotiating group of the Confederation of Public Sector Trade Unions led by Branimir Strukelj, have been under way for a long time, but no coordinated solution has been reached. Mr Virant further said, as a representative of the proposer in the complementary explanation of the articles, that solutions to the bill needed long-term coordination with representative public sector unions, the result of which was compromise solutions concerning the way in which wage differences were paid. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, Mira Palhartinger, presents the opinion of the drafter of the law mag. Ivana Vogrina pointed out that the provision of Article 1(1) of the proposal for a law aimed at the constitutional arrangement of the quorum established on the trade union side for the valid conclusion of the collective agreement for the public sector or amendments and additions should be re-examined. The content of the first paragraph is focused solely on the representation of trade unions and professions within the public sector in the conclusion of a collective agreement, while the number of members of representative trade unions is not defined on the issue of support relations. In its presentation of the opinion on the second law, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service initially pointed out some of the principle concerns regarding the proposed regime for the limitation of reimbursement of the amount of overpaid wages and proposed debt relief institutions in terms of the constitutional principle of equality. These solutions introduce a different treatment, an unequal relationship with those employees who have been paid and paid legally, as well as within the pool of public servants and officials whose salaries have been paid contrary to the law and are therefore committed to the recovery of excessively paid funds. The Committee then adopted the following two conclusions: "The amended proposal for a law shall be drawn up on the basis of a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages submitted to the National Assembly by the Government. The draft law on the basis of which the proposal for a law is to be completed does not include any of the articles in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the System of Salaries in the Public Sector, the second hearing submitted to the National Assembly by Master Ivan Vogrin." In the light of the previous conclusions, the Committee carried out a second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System, as presented in the text. He then took note of the written opinion of the Commission of the State Council for State Regulation. The president of the Slovenian Military Union Guido Novak, who is a member of the Committee in a letter of 17. 6. warned that the Government of the Union of Soldiers of Slovenia as a representative union in the military professions and defence activities did not allow for participation in the process of coordinating the draft law led by representative trade unions. In the debate, members and members of the committee welcomed the agreement reached between the Government and the trade unions and gave some warnings on the proposed content of the law. This referred in particular to a notice from the Legislative and Legal Service concerning cases where the recovery of funds has already taken place or has already been carried out. A member of a SDS committee said that their parliamentary group would not oppose the bill's proposal, but expressed the view that the solutions proposed were not the right way to address the problem of overpaid salaries. The blame for the overpaid salaries is not on the part of public servants, as they do not have the mechanisms available to verify the appropriateness of the calculation of the salaries they receive. Therefore, in the case of overpaid salaries, the employer should take over the burden. This position was also joined by a member of the New Slovenia Committee. The Committee shall, on a proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code, on the basis of paragraph 8 [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u195	Mr. Chehovin, you've been through a little while, if you can conclude.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u196	I'm concluding. The Committee adopted only amendments on 1, 4, 5. Article 6 and then voted on all articles of the bill together and also adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the Supplemental Draft Law, which includes the amendments adopted, is prepared on the basis of the first paragraph of Rule 133 of the Rules of Procedure. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Second conclusion: "Proposal of a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System – the GCC, second case of EPA 1997 /IV, submitted to the National Assembly by Master Ivan Vogrin, is not suitable for further consideration." Well, I've been a little longer because it's basically about dealing with two laws.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u197	Thank you very much. I agree with you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Sonja Ramšak will present the text by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Secretary of State with a co-worker, Members and Members of Parliament! Before the Slovenian Democratic Party, it is a difficult decision to either support the law or not to oppose it or not to define it. The proposed amendment of the law somehow brings responsibility for the overpaid salaries of public servants to those who were in good faith that their salaries were properly accounted for or given to the signing of the employment contract or to the translation into the pay grade by the new Wages Act, but the inspection found that some employers, especially in the health care sector and also in the Slovenian military and in many other cases, actually paid too much to the public servants or that they were wrongly translated into wage classes. This led to negotiations between the government group and representatives of public service unions. As was understood from the media, union negotiators were somehow placed in an angle and were somehow ordered: Take it or leave it. According to the Slovenian Democratic Party, the responsibility for getting overpaid salaries does not lie with those public servants who have received these amounts – it is necessary to know that they are also amounts that should be repaid five years ago, regardless of the fact that they are essentially budgetary resources – but that they are the responsibility of employers. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, it is recalled that in cases where liability is not on public servants, in essence the burden of this cost should be borne by the employer, in which case the State or public institutions or the public sector or those who have wrongly and practically wrongly charged the employees' salaries. We will therefore decide in the Slovenian Democratic Party how we will vote just before the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mrs Janja Klasinc will present her position.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u200	Good evening, everyone in the hall! Let me go back a little bit to the past first. On 1 August 2008, a new salary system entered into force in the public sector, and employers also offered new employment contracts with revised wage levels. Most of the public servants of the annexes prepared by the employers did not even understand. They also did not understand the translation into the new pay system, with the employer in charge of translating and determining the legality and payment of salaries. The invalidity of contractual provisions relating to the determination of the salary of a public sector employee is thus caused by employers with insufficient due diligence in respect of compliance with mandatory standards which cannot be amended. Even though in the public sector the employer is solely in charge of ensuring the legality of the determination and payment of wages, the legislator introduced the concept of invalidity in the reverse direction, i.e. when it goes to a public official as a weaker party in this process to the obvious detriment. In doing so, the amount of indemnity laid down in the pay provision passed on to an employee who did not incur an invalidity and who could not affect the remuneration provision in any way. In doing so, the legislator has even established binding judicial protection, which means that the employer must recover from the public servant the amount overpaid on a judicial basis, if no method of return agreement is reached, under the threat of penalties, irrespective of the fact that the party has not infringed. We believe that when the government tries to resolve the situation in the manner set out in the proposal for this law, it recognises the error made by the implementation of the law on the public sector wage system, and we point out that the area governing civil servants' salaries needs to be re-examined and eliminated. In the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, we will support the bill mainly because it was prepared on the basis of a broad consensus with the public sector trade unions. At the time of the consideration of this law by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, we have already pointed out that this proposal unfortunately does not respect the constitutional principle of equality. The bill only regulates cases where the amounts of overpaid wages have not yet been repaid or have not been paid back in full. Since in individual cases the repayment of funds is already or is already completed, of course, the possibility is not excluded that the amount of funds recovered would exceed the amount that would have to be recovered on the basis of the agreement in accordance with Article 3a of the Law, and that is why some public servants could be in a worse position than those who have been delayed by the return of the money. In this way, we will today support the amendment that will allow these public servants to repay the overpaid money from the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u202	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with his fellow Members and Members of Parliament! We will support the proposed amendment to the Law on the Public Sector Wage System in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. I do not intend to embark on the history of the creation of the Public Sector Wages Act, but the delay is likely to grow from the fact that everyone in the public sector has been convinced that the new pay system will improve its material position and bring higher wages. That's how we explained this system. But the problems with the enforcement of this law were considerable, sometimes it was also necessary to adopt some authentic interpretation of the text due to errors in the translation of wages from one system to another. This path has already been said to be a novel for three purposes. And since all three objectives have already been listed, allow me to stop only at the first one – to establish a clear legal basis and procedure for the return of overpaid amounts of wages. I intend to draw attention to what has also been said at the meeting of the parent body in order to ensure equal treatment for all, in line with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Services, according to those who have already settled or returned the overpaid salaries and those who will do so only after the adoption of this law. An amendment has been announced to take this notice of the Legal and Legislative Service into account. I have seen that the amendment is not and I regret that the promised promise has not been fulfilled. What I can say, however, has been considered in support of this law even today is that the novelty is the result of social dialogue, despite the fact that we have also heard a great deal about how to determine both the representativeness of trade unions and the acceptability or inadmissibility of individual provisions. As the Social Democrats have said, we will support the bill because we believe that social dialogue is a achievement that cannot be ignored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr Jerko Čehovin will be represented by the Allied Alliance Group Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u204	Dear Members, the rest of you are here! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages, which is ahead of us, deals mainly with the issue of the recovery of overpaid wages, which has been discussed recently. There are many cases where people in the public sector have been paid too much wages. Based on the report of the Public Sector Inspectorate, which collected data from budgetary users, wages of EUR 7.3 million were overpaid. On the one hand, there is no doubt that the budget has been damaged, and on the other hand it is clear that in the vast majority of these cases, employees are not guilty of anything and have not been able to know that they are receiving too much wages, of course until the Court of Auditors or the administrative inspection has established it. Therefore, employees cannot bear full responsibility for the wrong decisions of employers. We are therefore particularly pleased that the proposal for a law is in line with the representatives of the two trade unions. Branimir Strukelj, Drago Ščernjavič and Minister Gregor Virant signed a declaration on the harmonisation of the bill. After the signature, all three stressed that they had reached a reasonable and best compromise; the negotiations lasted several months. The agreement thus allows for a settlement between the employer and the employee, refunding the difference of up to two basic salaries for the last 10 months before the end of the payment of the high salary. If there is no agreement, this case will be resolved before a court in accordance with civil law. There is no uniform case law, so it is not possible to predict with certainty how the courts will judge. Therefore, in our view, settlement is the best possible way. The law therefore represents a step in the right direction and proposes a negotiated solution that is much more favourable for workers. For example, nurses should be exposed to this. The UKC inspection thus concluded that the salaries of 157 mid-term nurses working in intensive care units and also taking over the tasks of graduate nurses were overpaid. If the problem is illustrated by them, it is worth pointing out that many nurses should return very high amounts, including more than 15,000 euros. The law therefore represents a good solution, but it basically applies only to those employees who have not yet paid their salaries back. Since we believe that the law should treat all employees equally, we have today tabled an amendment to Article 6 and an amendment to the amendment that eliminates this deficiency. In the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek, we are convinced that even those who have already returned the difference or who have returned only part of the difference should be able to repay the debt or to repay the amount paid to them that exceeds the period of the last 10 months before the end of the payment. For we are convinced that all must be equal before the law because the message of this law could otherwise be wrong. In the Alliance's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek, we will support the bill and the amendment and amendment to the amendment tabled today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Kurnjek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List. The position is followed by the debate on the amendment tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u206	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Mr Secretary of State with fellow Members and Members of Parliament! They were not all the same before the marriage because some received overpaid wages, but others did not. But let's put this aside. The correct calculation of salaries, translation or transition to a new pay reform system was clearly too much for individual public sector bodies. In recent years, internal controls, audits and inspections have identified a number of irregularities or wrong wages for public officials. The novel makes it more clear and clear that we are fixing for the recovery of the overpaid amounts of wages and procedures in this regard. With regard to this issue in the National Gazette, we defend the position that if employees are not responsible for the wrong determination of salaries, they are not responsible. We therefore welcome the fact that the novel also provides for compensation for the person exercising the rights and duties of the employer for the damage caused by the wrong determination and payment of wages. It should be stressed that all public servants and officials have a contract of employment concluded with citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, they pay us. Therefore, both systematically and in practice, we must protect all the euro of taxation money in order to ensure that no one in the public treasury receives more than they do by means of legal and sub-legal acts. As the novel pursues these goals, we will support it in the Civil Gazette. We also announce support for the proposed amendment, which stipulates that those who have already paid too much will not be in a worse position than those who have not done so and will be subject to the new novelties. So, once again, we will support the bill in the Civil Gazette. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u208	Thank you again very much for your words, Madam Vice-President. Mr Secretary of State with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! The reform of the pay system in the public sector in 2008, which simplified the way wages were determined across the public sector, was an admirable bargaining achievement at that time. The negotiations lasted for several years. In the public sector, wage chaos reigned until the single wage system was put in place. However, this important negotiating achievement has proved to be a large millstone in practice, which represents a huge additional burden on the state treasury since its entry into force. In addition to the fact that the implementation of the Single Wage System, which has greatly increased the budgetary expenditure for civil servants' salaries, coincided with the start of the financial and economic crisis that has affected Slovenia almost the most among EU countries, the implementation of the wage system has in practice caused a number of problems that we are still paying for. We are paying both taxpayers from the state budget – an example of this is the illegal suspension of payments of salary imbalances from 2010 – as well as public servants who have been paid too much wages for many years and are now obliged to pay them back. It's nothing to blame, but apparently a lot of debt. The proposed amendment to the Public Sector Wages Act is therefore the result of the long-term coordination of the Ministry of Public Administration with representative public sector trade unions, the result of which is a compromise solution concerning how to pay the pay gap in case of excessive or underpaid wages. The current regime, which provides for the recovery of overpaid salaries, makes it unclear that the obligations relating to recovery, return procedures and the obligation to file an action have been imposed, resulting in a variety of interpretations, unanimity of case law and consequently the different treatment of public servants. The proposed amendment to the law thus provides that, on the basis of an agreement between a public servant or official and an employer, a public servant or an official may pay only overpaid salaries for a period of ten months, without the amount of reimbursement exceeding twice the basic salary of a public official or a full-time official for a month prior to the submission of the agreement. However, if the agreement is not reached, the employer may request the refund of the full difference between the overpaid and the lawfully defined remuneration before the competent court. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will not oppose the adoption of the proposed amendment to the Public Sector Wage System Act. However, we are asked why only a public servant and not an employer are responsible for the recovery of overpaid salaries. The latter, without the employee’s behaviour, led the payment procedures and paid the wages. Furthermore, in our view, the issue raised by the Legal and Legislative Service is also not resolved, namely the inequality in the situation of public servants who have already returned the difference in overpaid salaries or who are still returning this difference with public servants who will do so on the basis of the adoption of the proposed amendment to the law. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, the proposed amendment to the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages will not be opposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u209	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia is to be presented by Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat, but it is not currently a hall. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendments tabled by the Alliance's Group of Ambassadors, Alenka Bratušek. I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u210	Thank you. You know how they say, "The error is not sin, but it is sin to persist." And I do not wish to insist in the erroneous statement that there is no amendment to Article 6. The amendment has been tabled. And since it follows what we have advocated or supported at the parent’s working body meeting, I am merely predicting support for the amendment and support of the law. This, of course, should also be seen as an excuse for the error I have made in the opinion of the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u211	Thank you very much, mag. Majda Potter. Anybody else want to discuss this? He does. They have the word "magic." Ivan Vogrin, followed by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u212	Thank you very much, Madam President. However, I believe that the law adopted in 2008 has proven to have brought chaos because it is too complicated because it is extremely different professions – once doctors, second soldiers – it puts on the same denominator and it is not possible to do so. We have made comparisons in our law, as well as in this, with other pay systems that are significantly simpler. That is why, of course, this new law continues this chaos. Why? Look, if someone got paid something too much and it's illegal, because we can't accept that they'll pay up to two wages. Either you return everything you have paid too much or you don't return anything and someone is responsible for it. Who's in charge? The one who adopted such a law, or otherwise, the one who proposed it. Minister Virant, leading Minister Virant, did this practice with him when he was running for election, remember, in 2011, about 80,000 euros, and he said, "Now I will give the country 20,000 euros back. Look, we can't do that, and if this amendment of law is sent to the Constitutional Court for constitutional review, the Constitutional Court will find unconstitutional. It's simple logic. If I got something illegal, then I need to figure out how much I got and I need to get it back. But if I didn't get it, then I don't have to pay it back. Chaos all over the front since the law was passed because the law was being followed. You know what the law was after? [[…]] The law has followed what is about all the laws in our country to meet one target group and that we will win as many votes as possible in the elections of one target group. Follow certain actions of certain people, and you will see that we actually have laws, some kind of personal laws that someone has invented, that they have achieved something and written for someone. Well, that's the typical law for public servants. That's when Minister Virant thought he'd do it. Well, there's more to his opinion than that. I don't know what kind of boom, miracle. Chaos all over the front. And in practice, I've already said this on the committee, and I don't understand it, that we're traveling people and saying, "This is accepted, this is the law we're going to adopt now, but if you're not satisfied with it, go sue." Go sue! What kind of message is this? We're the state where we're suing, that is, the soldiers sue the public officials, the administrative units sue, the Ministry sues a country that we think is imaginary. That's all wrong. And this novel of the law is one of my concepts. Okay, I'm not going to be in Parliament anymore, luckily or unfortunately, because it's not that bad here. I'm sure I won't because I didn't run. If you don't buy a lottery ticket, you can't win. I did not run and will not, but otherwise I would probably gather a group of Members to put this into a constitutional review. Maybe someone else will. It's inappropriate what we do and it's not right to play like that, but we're taking something fast now. But in this novel, we have heard some things before: Let's wait for the next Parliament to do so. [[…]] We've been late for a year and two months with the fiscal rule. Let's wait for that. That's what's in a hurry. You know, once you get caught up in some lies, some deception, there's no end to it. That's why you have to try to be [[…]] Look, I'm trying to tell you something. I have spoken the same language since I am in Parliament. And it was Janša's government, and I was saying the same thing, and now I'm saying the same thing. And when Inspector Bine is back in Parliament, maybe I'll speak the same way. You can't create chaos, and this novelty of the law creates additional chaos. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u213	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u214	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll be brief. When I was preparing for this point, the amendment had not yet been tabled, so I stressed this equality between those who are somehow returning overpaid wages and those who will pay back wages in accordance with this amendment of the law. So, of course, I also had a problem with the procedure itself, and the fault of that and that one, especially the employer's guilt, and the damage was usually then the employee, who was not to blame. However, we will support this amendment in the parliamentary group, because, above all, it eliminates this equality and that is good. That's what I've been alerting myself to, and I've already warned my colleague Majda Potrate, and we both seem to have missed that the amendment was tabled during today. As we say, we will personally support this amendment in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? He does. I see two wishes. Mr Mirko Brulc has the floor first and then Mr Jerko Čehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Very briefly. In the previous term, I was a member of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission and, on the basis of the Court of Auditors' report, we worked hard to alleviate this pain – we talked mainly about nurses and other workers – so that they would not be punished for being punished. People are being punished. They're not guilty, they've got a few bars too many, and now they've got to pay it back, all on duty, and I don't know what else. This law, however, is trying to correct certain matters. I will, of course, support the amendment because it is a positive addition, but if the state gave up these funds, we could quickly compensate them for any loss of property that is not known of origin or of any other kind, and would not punish workers and workers who are not at fault. I'm afraid that can't be done, I understand the matter, so I'm going to support the law, and I'm going to support the amendment, but in the future, this should be a big school. I was a couple years old, 19 years old, school principal, school principal, and I set pay rates and so on. It was my responsibility. Not on the employee, on me. And there was nothing to compensate for if I made a mistake. So now I really appeal to the relevant authorities in this country, to the Ministry, not to let go when it is found that the person responsible is guilty, not the one who is not responsible and has received a few months' worth more. It is therefore right that this law is adopted just before this parliamentary discharge, so that these people will only breathe a little easier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerko Chehovin has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u218	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I won't be long either, and I won't be talking about these stories at the meeting right now. Otherwise, I agree that this law, which Mr Vogrin has tabled to a good degree, has been imported due to the rules of procedure that we have, because you know that if two laws are of the same sex, the first one is dealt with. But the first one was filed on a regular basis, and the second one was by emergency procedure. I'm not going to go into the details of why there's been too much pay paid to some categories of people. Of course, there would be both objective and subjective guilt here, and I think there is likely to be more to the subjective guilt. However, the principle applies; otherwise, under Roman law, if you have received too much, you must return. However, in this case, it is obvious that one in my opinion has been reached, however, a good compromise has been reached, both between union representatives and among the Government, because it would actually be difficult to say that people who have been informed after three years that they have received a higher salary than they should have are now responsible. Perhaps each of us would have been very emotional. That's why I think it's a good way to make a deal. While I must deny that this story relates to elections, these negotiations lasted for several months. At that time, there was no telling at all that the government would end up like it did and that we would have early elections. However, I think it is right that, if these negotiations have already begun within the mandate of this government, these things will be eliminated at this time as well. With regard to the amendment itself that was tabled, I must say that it was announced at the committee's own meeting. Neither did the Government explicitly oppose him, so today we have tabled this amendment. But here I have to apologize for some typographical error and now you've got the right text with these amendments. So the word "call" is replaced by the word "warning." That's actually it. I would also like to say that we thought that the submission of this amendment would be worthwhile, mainly because of the principle of equality. This would further penalize those who actually felt better, those more responsible, those who returned the money, and others who persisted or somehow resisted returning and were rewarded. Therefore, we thought it appropriate to dictate or correct this article. That's all I can say, actually. Of course, I personally did not like it either, because of the fact that we had to enforce this law by emergency procedure, we actually had to overrun that law that was put in good faith here by the honourable Member, Mr Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mrs Sonja Ramshak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u220	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I have decided to return my calls because of some of the views expressed by some of my colleagues. Look, to this marriage [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u221	Time is a problem, Mrs. Ramshak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u222	Yeah, I know. Just a few minutes, I'll be done by 10:00. I'm always fast.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u223	No, no, the time of the delegation is up.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u224	I'm sorry, all right.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-19-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u225	I apologize, but unfortunately the time of the Group has not been proposed. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided tomorrow, on Friday, 20 June 2014, as part of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I also interrupt the 70th extraordinary meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Members and Members of Parliament, please take your belongings away from the hall for the preparation of the hall at tomorrow's closed session. Welcome home. Good night.
