ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 3rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened under Article 58, paragraph 2, and Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Member: Mag. Alenka Bratušek, Jernej Vrtovec, from 12 o'clock onwards, and Marijan Pojbič. I invited the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Mir Cerar, and the candidates and candidates for ministers and ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the 1st item of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda of the 3rd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received your draft agenda on Wednesday 10 September 2014, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of the agenda item, or proposals for an extension of the agenda, and I therefore propose to the National Assembly that the agenda for today's meeting be set by reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 61 votes against 2. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the agenda of the 3rd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. On the list of candidates and candidates for ministers and ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Pursuant to Article 112(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 229(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Miro Cerar, proposed to the National Assembly the appointment of ministers and ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. He presented the list of candidates and candidates for ministers and ministers to the President of the National Assembly on 9 September 2014. The President of the Government is thus proposing to the National Assembly to appoint a mag. Juliano Bizjak Mlakar for Minister of Culture, mag. Mr Violeto Bulc, Minister without a department responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Dr Petr Gasperšić, Minister of Infrastructure, Mag. Ms Vesno Györkös Žnidar as Minister of the Interior, Mag. Mr Goran Klemenčič for the Minister of Justice, Mrs Marija Milojko Kolar Celarc for the Minister of Health, Dr Anjo Kopač Mrak for the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Mr Boris Koprivnik for the Minister of Public Administration, Mrs Irena Majcen for the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Dušan Mramor for the Minister of Finance, Mr Jožef Petrovic for the Minister of Economic Development and Technology, Dr Stanko Setnikar Cankar for the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Mr Janko Webra for the Minister of Defence, mag. Mr Žmavc as Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and Mr Gorazd Žmavc as Minister without a department responsible for relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world. I give the floor to the President of the Government, Dr Mir Cerar, to further explain the proposal for appointments.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Respectable High Council, respected citizens and citizens! In recent months, I have been approached by many people who do not care about the future of Slovenia and want to ensure that the new policy will work in an integrated and country-oriented manner. I note that citizens and citizens are very clear that there is no more room and time for political overtures and accounts. We are rightly expected and required to be a country and a higher political culture, of course, along with honest and well-thought decisions and measures that will allow all of us to live better. People have enough political bollocks, arguments, divisions and blockades, while the country is getting worse and many are living in insecurity and poverty. For years, they have heard promises of a way out of the crisis, and the crisis is still here and is getting worse in some areas. From the future government, they expect us to immediately grab onto the job and thus prevent us from going back as a society. We really can't do this, and we can't afford it anymore. Although recent economic results are encouraging, economic growth is slightly higher and unemployment is slightly lower, but in many areas we are still falling back, and I am not just referring to the social deficit in terms of values and responsibilities. The budget deficit is higher than 3%, which is the border of the Stability Pact. An even more worrying structural deficit of 2.5% and last year we had 71.7% of public debt and this year it will be around 81%. If we do not act decisively, today’s expenses, such as wages and pensions, will also be repaid to our grandchildren. We will have to immediately assess the possible need for the 2014 budget rebalancing, prepare a draft budgetary plan for 2015 and draft fiscal rule law. We will also have to engage in discussions with the European Commission on the acute surplus deficit and on the procedure to address excessive macroeconomic imbalances. These discussions will determine our common social path. In order to be able to gradually expand the space of manoeuvre or gradually become economically independent, as the candidate for a finance minister says, our fiscal policy will have to be quite restrictive. This means that we will have to reduce public expenditure, increase the efficiency of collecting existing taxes, and above all make sure that gross domestic product growth is as high as possible. The gross social product can be stimulated by eliminating financial cramps, restructuring companies, improving corporate governance, privatisation, foreign direct investment and other measures. Continued privatisation of 15 companies and the definition of the Slovenian State Holding Strategy for further privatisation is very important for the financial and business restructuring of companies, for their access to fresh financial resources and consequently for their growth. Institutions managing state assets must be organised in a way that enables this management to be as effective as possible. Of course, in the long term, it is the most important and effective measure for economic growth to increase competitiveness, and I am counting mainly on the Minister of Economic Affairs and, of course, on others to an appropriate extent. If we want greater competitiveness, for example, a number of administrative barriers to space and tax regulation will have to be removed, which we will also do. We need a more efficient legal environment, a more flexible labour market and an imaginary environment for the creation and development of small and medium-sized enterprises. Research and higher education will have to be encouraged and the most vulnerable will be burdened. We will ensure better use of European funds, better project management and, above all, the use of cohesion funds that will have long-term positive effects at the regional and local levels. Slovenia needs more unified projects that will actually contribute to positive social change. Our priority will also be to strengthen economic diplomacy and carry out activities in support of the internationalisation of the Slovenian economy. So we have a lot of work to do. Companies are still in charge. Each third company finds that it does not have adequate access to funding. Citizens also find it increasingly difficult to obtain credit, even though they are not too indebted. Unemployment is 9.3% and, in particular, young people are increasingly entering the labour market. Two out of three young people between the ages of 25 are unemployed. Even when these young people get a job, they are usually overly flexible forms of work that do not provide sufficient predictability and security. Even the best-educated young people are forced to support underpaid jobs that do not provide security. When will it be their turn to settle their lives and win their own lives, and when will we become a society? As long as we have a surplus deficit until more than 60% of the gross domestic product remains in debt until we have eliminated the structural deficit, as we have also written in the constitution, others will decide on us and instead of us. The situation in the country is therefore serious and, in particular, in the areas mentioned above, I expect a great deal from future ministers and ministries, primarily from the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and the Office for Development, Strategic Projects and Cohesion, which will be directed by the Minister without a charter, as these will have to take all necessary measures to provide robust public finances, with a sound financial system which must ensure the financing of the population and the economy. During the term of office, the Coalition set itself three main fiscal policy objectives. Firstly, the resolution of the excessive deficit in a sustainable manner. Secondly, the gradual reduction of the structural deficit of the sector is a state and programme planning. Thirdly, long-term sustainability of public finances. How successful we will be depending on effective inter-structural, inter-sectoral cooperation, and I am sure that we will also be able to do so well in cases where our positions will be different, as this is the future of our society as a whole. We also have a lot of work to do in the field of health. The changing situation and needs of the ageing population require modernisation and optimization of the health system. The main stakeholders in this system will need to align themselves with the key challenges and directions of the necessary changes, which need to be thought through, rational and substantively and in a timely manner. For us with the future Minister of Health, the following will be important in introducing health changes: whether the change will benefit patients, whether it will facilitate the work of health workers and whether it will allow the sustainability of the healthcare system. Citizens in need of medical care should be placed at the centre of the healthcare system and provided with optimal care. People need to receive quality health services in a timely and rapid manner. The kind they need. We need to enable healthcare professionals to follow the development of the profession when working with appropriate education and training. We also need to ensure professional monitoring and supervision of the work of all those who are treating, caring or otherwise caring for patients. The public health system will be strengthened in a way that will ensure that all insured persons have equal opportunities for health care when they need it and are entitled to it. Compulsory health insurance will maintain its universality and accessibility to legally designated health services will be maintained when the funds are provided in solidarity. The voluntary supplementary insurance will compensate for the corresponding duty. In the area of public health, we will strengthen preventive programs, since we can do the most for health when we are sick, but of course doctors, nurses and other health professionals are committed here to help us overcome the disease. We will enforce zero tolerance for corruption in public health. The procurement items will be standardised and as uniform as possible. Where possible, we will carry out joint procurement procedures. We will advocate a clearer distinction between public and private health activities. We will set criteria for the adoption of a network of public health activities at secondary and tertiary level and will ensure that the basic level of health care is strengthened, where the situation of health homes as central health care providers and organisers will be strengthened. In order to achieve a more effective functioning of the health system, it will be essential to improve the management and organisation of the system at national level and at the level of the operators involved in the implementation and financing of health activities. On the basis of professional eligibility and analysis, we will promote the integration of public institutions. One of the areas that we will have to tackle as a priority is the area of long-term care, as society is ageing. There is also an increase in the number of people over 65 years of age and the number of persons over 80 years of age who need daily assistance to provide or maintain basic life functions to a greater or lesser extent. Most of the rights and services associated with long-term care are now financed by contributions to pension, disability and health insurance. As the number of older people increases and the share of the active population decreases, a new source of funding for this provision will have to be obtained. The ageing population will have a significant impact on health expenditure in the future. In most health systems, measures to ensure a long-term sustainable health system, especially in the economic crisis, are therefore aware of the importance of regulating the financing of long-term care, deinstitutionalising it, developing different forms of assistance at home and other forms of integrated care, in particular preventing the consequences of chronic diseases and maintaining the health of an ageing population. Slovenia is projected to be the fastest growing population by 2060. The long-term care of the elderly has always mirrored humanity and I wish that we here as a community and society would not fail. Education is also crucial to the future of our society. While maintaining and developing quality primary and secondary education, we want to provide a fair, internationally comparable and effective system of higher education, once free of charge to everyone who fulfils the registration conditions. We will promote integration, research and education and scientific cooperation. However, higher education should be an area that can help to better understand and promote economic growth, improve social cohesion and reduce social inequalities. We must take an extremely cautious approach to the crisis in the labour market, family employment, social policy and equal opportunities. These are areas where there is often an excuse to make, but not because it is a crisis. Ensuring social security and prosperity is a key task of the welfare state and the exact period of the crisis is where its true role and importance are displayed and demonstrated. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities must therefore be effective and focused on ensuring social security, social cohesion, social justice and responsible solidarity. The existing social security system, based on social insurance and the social assistance system, will be upgraded in order to face the challenges of long-term society, family needs, labour market rekerisation and others more effectively. We will reorganise the implementation system in a way that is more responsive to the needs of users also through a more coherent role in the local environment. In the labour market, the age segmentation and cost inequality of different forms of work will need to be reduced, which contributes significantly to the spread of abusive forms of work. Special emphasis will be placed on vulnerable groups and, through social innovation, through European funds, ensure their quality social inclusion. People are the key capital and value of every society, and social policy measures must also be geared towards promoting the development of human capital. We will take these measures in a broad dialogue with the social partners, civil society and the general public. Trust is crucial in this regard. From now on, I am focusing on our national security. Here, first of all, I want to stop in the field of protection against natural and other disasters. I was myself last weekend in the flooded and otherwise affected areas of Dolenjska and Posavje, where I, together with representatives of Civil Protection, volunteer firefighters and other mirrors, took note of the current situation and the measures taken. At its first meeting, the new government will also be informed of the consequences of the flood. Allow me to express in this place all the recognition of the military, civil protection, voluntary firefighters and all other volunteers and others who have helped people in distress quickly, unselfishly and professionally. The future Minister of Defence has my full support in efforts to train and equip the Slovenian Armed Forces in the event of natural disasters, as quickly as possible, to help Civil Protection and Firefighters to help people in such cases even faster and more effectively. It will also be necessary to prepare a national programme for the prevention of natural and other disasters quickly and to amend the medium-term defence programme of the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2015-2020. I believe that, at the Ministry of Defence, they will continue to carry out all the tasks related to the country's defence plan and to the organisation and functioning of the Slovenian Army and will strengthen defence policy and protective rescue and integration. Slovenia is, of course, not a lonely island, so we must ensure our national security, sovereignty and territorial integrity, and in particular to strengthen good relations with neighbouring and other countries, which are the main objectives of Slovenian foreign policy. The world's situation is unstable. Some of the serious crisis hotspots are dangerously close, in our neighborhood, in Ukraine, in the Middle East in North Africa. No one can pretend that it's none of our business. On the one hand, we cannot be unharmed by the suffering of people in these and other crisis areas, but at the same time the security threats that have arisen are directly affecting us. It is important that, in dealing with them, equipment can be provided to our partners in the EU and to our allies in NATO. We will therefore contribute actively in particular to strengthening the EU's common foreign and security policy, which must respond quickly and effectively to an increasing number of crisis situations that threaten international stability and security. We will also be active in the United Nations, in the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, in the Council of Europe and in other international organisations. In all these forums, we will advocate respect for the fundamental principles of international law, for the protection of human rights and for the peaceful resolution of disputes. We will cultivate good bilateral relations, first and foremost with neighbouring countries, Central and South-Eastern Europe and with great powers. We will pay particular attention to supporting Slovenian companies, their breakthroughs and their enforcement in global markets. We will take care of our relatives in place and around the world, to preserve their Slovenian identity and ties with Slovenia. Also an important element of our foreign policy activities remains the protection of Slovenian citizens abroad and effective work in the field of visa policy. We'll also have to take care of our food security. In the coalition we are building a vision of Slovenian agriculture, which will be the foundation of the country's food security and, together with forestry and fisheries, also the foundation of rural economic vitality. We will encourage agricultural economies to contribute to the domestic market as much as possible to produce more self-sustainment. Consumer confidence is growing, economic indicators show a slight recovery, and I believe that it will not be long before people can reward the efforts of domestic agriculture for safe and quality food. Through decisions to purchase quality food of Slovenian origin, including those that transfer more storage and transport, we can all contribute together to the conservation and strengthening of farms, jobs and rural areas. The government will also promote rural development, local food supply chains and the availability of high-quality organic food of Slovenian origin through targeted measures. We will pay special attention to greater targeted and strategic focus on public financial transfers to agriculture and rural areas, short supply chains with local products in food production and forest and forest chain, generation transfer of farms, strengthening knowledge, transfer of innovation and good practices, access to organic food and food of higher quality of Slovenian origin, competitiveness of Slovenian agriculture, and other measures that are important for strengthening and developing agriculture and rural development and for our food security. The environment will also need a lot of our attention. As you know, because of the complexity of both areas, infrastructure and environment and space, we have decided on two ministries. The Ministry of Environment and Space will have considerable work to do with legislation that is not fully in line with the directives of the European Union. There will also be a need to ensure faster and more law-abiding behaviour of those responsible in the procedures for issuing building permits. In the area of space, legislation will need to be complemented by establishing a spatial planning system that will allow for the adoption of spatial acts at both national and local level. The Ministry of Infrastructure will have to face a serious challenge of increasing efficiency in the management of existing infrastructure. With a focus on building a new transport infrastructure, we have ignored the development of a system of governance and maintenance of existing infrastructure under public financial constraints. As a result, driving conditions have been deteriorating for many years in Slovenia. This year, money was running out not only for investments, but also for the statutory regular maintenance of the existing state road network, and it is therefore crucial to ensure a stable or predictable volume of financial resources for the implementation of economic public services on State transport infrastructure. At the same time, it will be necessary to gradually combine certain management functions in the state transport infrastructure, covering railways, motorways, state roads and water infrastructure. Development investments will be overwinded from the point of view of transport needs. Priority will be given to those infrastructure investments for which we will be able to secure co-financing through the European Union and which will also provide cash flow from handover to use to service debt financing sources. Financial resources for transport infrastructure development plans will have to be sought beyond the revenue of the state budget in the future. The second track remains the strategic priority of Slovenia and the issue of providing funds is open. In the field of energy, we will also focus on providing a basic development document, the so-called energy concept, which is a national energy programme. Its aim is to reduce energy dependence and ensure stable, efficient and sustainable energy supply. This makes sense to define energy as a development opportunity for the development of other activities. Investments in new energy facilities should also be made available to interested private investors. We will place great emphasis on reducing energy consumption, in particular by promoting the energy recovery of existing buildings, which can make an important contribution to reducing energy dependence and achieving Slovenia's environmental objectives, as well as to revitalising construction. For a moment, I will return to health care and to the criterion of whether a change will benefit the patient. The same criteria should apply in the field of public administration and in all other areas of our operation. The key to assessing all important and day-to-day decisions is the benefit of citizens and organisations using public services and the benefit of these services for the public administration and its officials alone. I wish that, in this mandate, and I especially count on the assistance of the Minister of Public Administration here, citizens would go as far as possible through bureaucratic mazes and hear as few times as possible that we are not competent, you cannot do that with us, we do not know, we do not know yet, we cannot. Of course, we must provide public servants with adequate working conditions, including information infrastructure, and strengthen the performance assessment system for all levels of public servants, so that the key value becomes an effective work. A value that will also be properly valued. A proactive partnership with the non-governmental sector is also of paramount importance for coordinated social development and effective support for the necessary changes. We will upgrade the mechanisms for monitoring initiatives and the positions of this sector, actively take them into account in the decision-making and drafting processes and the non-governmental sector to a greater extent and with better support, in the provision of public functions. We will seek solutions in the direction of more stable and long-term co-financing of non-governmental organisations and in effective support for their access to project funds, and we will actively pursue the integration of non-governmental organisations. In this way, these organisations will be able to take on the socially needed roles more actively, increase employment and their own visibility and, as a result, deplete the public sector. A few more words about the Ministry of the Interior. In view of the independence of the public administration in the form of a self-resort, the attention of that Ministry, namely the Ministry of the Interior, can be more focused on the Police, which, as a body within the Ministry, is one of the pillars of the internal security of the State. The priority of police action will be in the areas of detection and investigation of economic crime and corruption and crime in the banking, health and pharmaceutical sectors, energy and planned misuse of European funds. The Minister's candidate emphasises that the mission of the police is to serve and protect or to provide security for individuals and communities. Of course, the police will also continue to pay attention to road safety and migration control. However, specialised investigation teams will focus on investigating complex crimes and carrying out financial investigations aimed at investigating illegal property benefits and the final objectives of more effective seizure of illegally acquired property. In the area of justice, we need to overcome the idea that the successful resolution of legal problems depends solely on the functioning of the courts and to make it clear that the effective functioning of justice requires the high professional and ethical and legal responsibility of all constitutional parts of justice. Decisions of the courts shall not be subject to political attacks or manipulation. The detection, prosecution and prosecution authorities need to be enabled at legislative and operational level to cooperate more in a more coordinated and creative manner and to carry out their tasks more effectively, in particular with regard to the worst forms of economic and financial crime. At the same time, it is necessary to ensure that the executive branch of the authorities is not insurmountable, i.e. politically, in the autonomous professional functioning of the crime detection and prosecution bodies, but expresses its encouragement towards an effective fight against economic crime, in particular with the necessary changes to the rules and with the relevant political declaration. The permanent mandate of judges is a value that should not be waived in order to ensure the independence of the judiciary. However, we support the implementation of clear criteria for the selection of judges, their evaluation and progress and the identification of their responsibilities. At the same time, we support all necessary measures for the ethical functioning of judges, prosecutors and lawyers, as well as all other officials and holders of public powers. In order to reduce judicial backlogs, it is necessary to examine the possibilities of legislative simplification of legal procedures everywhere where this does not result in the reduction of constitutional and convention standards for the protection of human rights. At the same time, efforts must be made to optimise business processes. Judges should be more burdened with tasks which are not directly related to the trial and transferred to experts. The decision-making and supervisory function of the Presidents of the Courts in the administration should be strengthened and the number of pending cases should be handled. Let me add some thought about culture to this succinct field review. Culture is a process and a value system that ensures the existence of our community. It is therefore important to return to culture the role of an important factor in the development of an innovative and knowledge-based society that contributes to the efficiency of education, to economic growth and employment, to the development of democracy and to the fight against poverty and social exclusion. We will strengthen the awareness that culture is the most important product of creative social factors, without which Slovenians cannot stand and develop. I conclude with what started our story – with a commitment to go beyond division. I invite you to put aside our prejudices, because we really know and we can work together. When it's bad, let's get together, as we've proven many times. Like us, the Slovenians who live outside the borders are rich with fresh cultural and economic concepts, and they are ours, even far away, we can be enriched by individuals who are far away from us in their way of thinking and political, religious or other beliefs. Our common, cultural, linguistic and economic space is large enough for all such differences. Not one of them is a threat; in fact, they can only enrich us. Respectable High Council, respected citizens and citizens! Together with the proposed candidates and candidates for ministers, I am aware of the responsibility we are taking for the present and future of this company. I will endeavour to maintain a solid coalition and establish a ministerial team that will carry out what we have committed to with very operational and measurable results. However, we have committed ourselves to a policy that will drive Slovenia out of the crisis. We have committed ourselves to a policy that will bring stability to Slovenia and a higher political and legal culture. Last but not least, we have committed ourselves to a policy that will go beyond senseless division with the aim of linking, creating and ensuring a decent life. These are our commitments, and we intend to implement them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u3	In accordance with Article 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, candidates and candidates presented themselves to the competent working bodies and responded to questions raised by members and members of committees and by the Commission. You have received reports from competent working bodies with opinions. The report of the Committee on Culture will be presented by the president, Dr Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u4	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable President of the Government, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members. Mag. Ms Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, proposed for Minister of Culture, is in accordance with Article 112 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 230, first and second paragraphs, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly at the first urgent meeting of the Committee on Culture 16. 9. 2014 presented to and answered their questions to the members and members of the Committee. In its opening presentation, the proposed candidate presented her CV and working experience and highlighted ten key points of the work of the cultural centre set out in the Coalition Treaty. Following the presentation of the Minister's candidate, the panellists and the panellists wanted more detailed answers to some questions. The candidate answered the questions raised and took note of her views, views and opinions and of more concrete proposals for action in specific areas of the Ministry of Culture. A more detailed presentation of the candidate, the questions of the members and the members of the committee and the replies of the candidate shall be made available in the record of the committee meeting. Following the completion of the presentation of the proposed candidate, the committee adopted the opinion by 9 votes to four with four votes that the presentation was mags. Juliane Bizjak Mlakar, candidate for Minister of Culture, appropriate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u5	The reports of the Committee on the Economy will be presented by the President of the Magi. Margareta Guček Zakošek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u6	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable President of the Government, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! The President of the Government is the President of the National Assembly 9. 9. 2014 forwarded a list of candidates and candidates for ministers and ministers of the Government, in which he proposed Mr Jožef Petrovič as Minister for Economic Development and Technology. Mr. Jožef Petrovich is 15. 9. 2014 presented to the members and members of the Committee on the Economy and answered their questions. In his opening presentation, the proposed candidate presented his current career and stressed that he would try to contribute to the successful exit of Slovenia from the economic crisis on the basis of his long experience and acquired knowledge, particularly in the economy. The proposed candidate highlighted elements which he believes are key to raising Slovenia's competitive advantages. These are: strengthening a healthy business environment, setting up a legal framework that promotes strategic partnerships and investment, strengthening healthy business cores, maintaining and creating new jobs, investing in technological development, strengthening dialogue with social partners, improving access to funding sources, and, above all, debirocraticisation. He also presented the proposed emergency measures to help the Slovenian economy, which relate in particular to the following areas: the establishment of an enabling business environment, the reduction of long-term and insolvency proceedings, the extension and restructuring of enterprises, the establishment of appropriate lending conditions, tax policy, the strengthening of inter-university and enterprise integration, the promotion of payment discipline and, in particular, the encroachment of the grey economy. The members and members of the committee asked the candidate a number of questions to which the proposed candidate replied and informed the members and members of the committee of their proposals, opinions on the individual areas. Following the completion of the presentation of the proposed candidate, the Committee on the Economy adopted the opinion that Mr Jožef Petrovič's presentation as a candidate for the Minister for Economic Development and Technology was appropriate. The Committee on the Economy also considered the presentation of a candidate for a Minister without a portfolio responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion. Mag. Violeta Bulc is 15. 9. Presented to and answered their questions to the members and members of the Committee on the Economy. Following the opening presentation of her career path, the proposed candidate explained how she sees the vision and mission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for development and European cohesion policy, which will care as an important impetus for the balanced, progressive and sustainable development of Slovenia. It further stressed that, in its opinion, the service can have a particular impact on the following areas: ensuring efficient systems and mechanisms, including sources of funding for the promotion and systematic coordination of the development of Slovenia; raising the competitive capacity of enterprises, regions and other stakeholders; creating conditions for value added, and particularly for the development of Slovenia in an innovative way through visible innovative projects, which will also make the service aware of all Slovenia. All of this will lead to an effective, balanced development of Slovenian space as such. The proposed candidate also referred to 10 strategies, which she considered to be crucial to achieving the objectives set. It concluded its presentation by presenting some of the projects whose implementation, in its view, is of fundamental importance for the achievement of those objectives and strategies. These are: information support to European resource drawdown processes, adoption of a project management regulation, identification of key service processes, efficient service organisation, identification of gaps in the competences of employees in the service and ensuring adequate education and completion of the smart specialisation strategy, the development strategy of Slovenia and the operational programme to draw funds in the financial perspective 2014-2020. In the debate, the proposed candidates were asked a number of questions, which she answered in full and informed the members and members of the Committee of her views. Following the completion of the presentation of the candidate, the Committee on the Economy adopted the opinion that the presentation of the mags was. Violet Bulc, a candidate for a non-resourced minister responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, appropriate. I thank all members of the Committee for their constructive debate, and I also want such cooperation in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u7	The report of the Committee on Foreign Policy will be presented by President Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u8	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear Mr. President of the Government, Dr. Cerar, distinguished colleague, respected colleague! On 9 September 2014, the President of the Government proposed to the President of the National Assembly that the National Assembly for Foreign Affairs appoint Karl Viktor Erjavac. In accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Karl Viktor Erjavec, candidate for Minister, presented himself to the members and members of the Committee on Foreign Policy on 12 September 2014 and answered their questions. In the opening presentation, the candidate for the Minister said that his work so far as the Minister for Foreign Affairs was known to Members and Members. The presentation began with the conclusion that a new strategy for Slovenian foreign policy should be developed as soon as possible, since the strategy has become obsolete and has achieved all the goals we have set ourselves when we have established our country. The role and objectives of the Slovenian foreign policy should therefore be further defined. The main objective of Slovenian foreign policy is now to provide security, to ensure sovereignty, to ensure territorial integrity and to develop good relations with neighbouring countries, which is also the basis for good political, economic, cultural and other cooperation. He also presented the starting points of the emerging foreign policy declaration, which is ready for consideration in the Government. It was designed by all actors involved in foreign policy as well as the professional public. The Declaration specifically highlights good relations with and with Slovenians around the world, good relations with neighbouring countries and identifies the specific interests of Slovenian foreign policy. It further defines strategic partnerships and the role of Slovenia in international organisations. The Minister's candidate also highlighted the role of economic diplomacy, which can serve as a good basis for promoting economic cooperation and attracting foreign investors. Regarding relations with neighbouring countries, he said that we do not have specific open issues that would burden relations very much. We have friendly relations with all our neighbors, although there are also some open questions that we are trying to resolve in an appropriate way. This is particularly important in view of the fact that neighbouring countries are also important economic partners and most of the countries where the Slovenian community lives. Regarding the Western Balkan countries – Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Serbia, Macedonia, Albania, Kosovo, said that Slovenia supports the integration of these countries into Euro-Atlantic integration, with all these countries meeting all the conditions for entry into these integrations. Members and members of the Committee highlighted in the debate some important and current issues of foreign policy and asked the minister's candidate for questions relating in particular to the Western Balkans, as a priority area of interest and functioning of Slovenia, the importance of the Brdo process, the renewal of two strategic foreign policy documents, namely the Declaration on Foreign Policy and the Strategy for Foreign Policy, the renewal of the network of diplomatic and consular representations, economic diplomacy, the role of the Republic of Slovenia and the promotion of Slovenian priorities in the development of economic agreements of the European Union with other countries around the world, for example the United States and Canada, the consequences of economic sanctions to the Russian Federation due to the Ukrainian crisis, the prohibition of trade in businesses in the Crimean peninsula and so on. Unfortunately, time does not allow me to raise all the questions, and you can also find them in written material, as well as the answers that are summarized in written material. At the end of the presentation of the proposed candidate, the Committee voted on the view that the presentation of Karl Viktor Erjavac, the candidate for the Minister for Foreign Affairs, was appropriate. The Committee voted on this opinion by 10 votes to five. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u9	The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space will be presented by Mr Igor Zorčič, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u10	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, colleagues and colleagues! In accordance with Article 112 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the first and second paragraphs of Article 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Dr. Peter Gasperšič, candidate for the Minister of Infrastructure, shall be held in accordance with Rule 112 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. 9. 2014 presented and answered their questions to the members and members of the Infrastructure and Space Committee. He graduated from the Faculty of Construction and Geodesy of the University of Ljubljana, where he graduated as a young researcher and continued his studies at the Master's and Doctor's level. During that time, he also completed his studies in the United States, and after returning to his homeland, he completed his Ph.D. in technical sciences in the field of construction. For ten years he was employed in public administration, where he first worked on the preparation of construction, technical regulations and then took up various leading positions, from the management of the Highways Sector, the management of the Roads Directorate, and he was also Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment and Space. With regard to its future work within the Ministry, the candidate highlighted as key transport challenges the improvement of the efficiency of the management of existing transport infrastructure and the establishment of a stable system of providing financial resources for the execution of economic public services on State transport infrastructure. It intends to propose a strategy for the development of transport infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia, which will be based on an analysis of actual transport needs and the ability to effectively realise the development investment covered for all modes of transport by 2030. Priority will be given to the realisation of those investments for which European Union co-financing can be ensured, while investments will also be provided with the appropriate cash flow to service the loans envisaged to secure own participation with the European Investment Bank. In this regard, the candidate stressed that financial resources for the implementation of transport infrastructure projects in the future will also have to be sought outside the revenue of the State budget and that the possibility of public-private partnerships will have to be checked accordingly for their implementation. In the area of highway management, the first priority will be to provide conditions for regular and smooth servicing of loans that Dars has rented with the State guarantee in the coming years. It also highlighted the toll system, which will have to be aligned for freight vehicles with the requirements of the European Directives and ensure the international interoperability of the tolling system. In the field of rail transport, the candidate intends to initiate procedures within the Ministry to harmonise rail transport legislation with European directives, as well as to seek to obtain funds for investment in railway infrastructure from excise duty on fuel. He also highlighted the completion of the integrated public passenger transport project, which will improve the mobility of the population and accessibility and the competitiveness of public transport, with the key being the establishment of a single ticket system. In the field of energy, he highlighted as crucial the adoption of the energy concept of Slovenia, which would become a basic development document for the next 40 years and would replace a national energy programme that has never actually come to life. In the area of energy infrastructure development, it has identified the construction of a chain of hydro power plants on Sava as a priority. On the basis of the candidate's presentation, the members and members of the committee asked several questions and expressed their concerns and opinions. The candidate for the Minister of Infrastructure answered the questions raised by the members and members of the Committee, briefed them on his views, opinions and views, and the way and priority of solving individual problems. At the end of the presentation, the Committee adopted an opinion by 10 votes and 6 against that the presentation by Dr Petr Gasperšič as a candidate for the Minister of Infrastructure was appropriate. She's 16 at the same meeting. 9. In accordance with the same provisions of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Ms Irena Majcen also presented the candidate for the Environment and Space Committee to the members of the Infrastructure, Environment and Space Committee. The candidate for Minister of Environment and Space is an educated university agricultural engineer. She has obtained her work experience as a consultant and leader of the Association of Agriculture of Slovenska Bistrica, as a member of the Executive Council, as Head of the Department of Agriculture of the Municipality of Slovenska Bistrica, as Head of the Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition of the Management Unit of Slovenska Bistrica, as Mayor of the Municipality of Slovenska Bistrica and as Head of the Department of Environment, Space and Transport at the administrative unit of Slovenska Bistrica. With regard to her future work, the candidate stressed that, if confirmed as Minister of Environment and Space, her priorities were to follow the highest development guidelines, such as the efficient use of resources and the transition to the circular economy, taking into account the principles of sustainable development. It will endeavour to aim to create faster, more transparent and simpler procedures for greater efficiency in the adoption of spatial plans at local and national level. According to its vision, the Ministry's commitment will also be to promote green public procurement and a green innovation environment. The Minister's candidate stressed that the Ministry's special concern will be to provide budgetary and European resources to help build water networks and to build networks for the removal and cleaning of waste water. By amending the legislation, they will enable appropriate remediation at the Ministry following natural disasters. It will also further be possible to ensure that environmental pollutants are adequately responsible, thereby establishing zero tolerance for the intended causes of such environmental burdens. The candidate also announced that the Ministry would prepare an amendment to the Law on the Construction of Buildings, the Law on Nature Protection, the Law on the Elimination of Natural Accidents and the Green Public Procurement, all with a view to their more effective implementation. In accordance with the coalition agreement adopted, the Ministry will also prepare a proposal to include the recording of the right to drinking water as public goods in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. With regard to the latest floods, the Minister's candidate also said that strategic and implementation plans for the maintenance of watercourses, flood measures and irrigation systems would need to be drawn up in order to prepare flood action across the country. Priority areas at risk will also need to be identified with a time-frame for individual tasks with the necessary parts and adequate financial resources. With regard to the regulation of all procedures for investors in one place, the so-called project I know, the Ministry will set up appropriate websites where it will be possible to monitor the real timetable for the implementation of the planned projects. The Minister's candidate also announced the preparation of a new national housing programme for the period 2014-2020, which would respond to current housing needs for individual categories of citizens and citizens, especially young, young families, older ones and those under a certain price. On the basis of the presentation of the candidate, the members and members of the committee asked several questions and also expressed their concerns and opinions. The candidate for the Minister for Environment and Space responded to the questions raised by the members and members of the Committee and informed them of her views, opinions, views and the manner and priority of the resolution of individual matters. Following the adjournment, the Committee adopted the opinion by 10 votes to 5 with 10 votes in favour, that the presentation by Irene Majcen, the candidate for the Minister for Environment and Space, was appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u11	The report of the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government will be presented by the President of the Magi. Liljana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u12	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable President of the Government, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members! Ma'am mag. Ms Vesna Györkös Žnidar, candidate for Minister of Home Affairs, and Mr Boris Koprivnikar, candidate for Minister of Public Administration, are in accordance with the Constitution and Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on 16. 9. 2014 presented and answered their questions to the members and members of the Committee on Internal Affairs, Public Administration and Local Government. Following her opening presentation, the candidate for the Minister of the Interior presented her vision for the management of the Ministry of the Interior. She stressed that the standards of internal security were by no means acceptable at the expense of the fundamental human rights and freedoms that were constitutionally guaranteed. As priority areas of work, the candidate stated, while aware of the various restrictive circumstances, that the police must continue in the future with great activities in the areas of detection and investigation of economic crime and corruption, as well as criminal offences in the banking sector, health care, pharmaceuticals, energy, planned use of European funds. It has highlighted the successful work of the National Investigation Office so far, and the priorities include ensuring an effective, legal and professional police close to the people. She drew attention to the fact that the number of legal judgments in the area of confiscation of property of illegal origin was practically negligible, which undoubtedly affected Slovenia's international reputation. She stressed the media issue of adequate police equipment and the opinion that, in cooperation with union representatives, it should seek to exclude police officers from the public service system and to stimulate the regulation of police status on the basis of a regulated career system of advancement. As one of the main objectives of the candidate for minister will also be to raise confidence in the Slovenian police, which is also at a high level. It advocated enhanced cooperation between the Ministry of the Interior and the local community, notably by strengthening the role and expertise of police station commanders and police leaders, increasing the presence of police in the field and administrative burdens through the e-police project. As one of the ways to ensure a sufficient number of police officers in the field, it cited the consequences of the abolition of the Schengen border with the Republic of Croatia, which would mean having more police officers. It also highlighted property crime, which is on the rise, but still relatively little investigated, the need to ensure road safety with the priority of the Ministry of the Interior to reduce road fatalities and to focus on prevention. She concluded her presentation by presenting the scope of police action with regard to covert investigative measures, particularly with regard to the IMSI hunter, who are also the subject of discussions with the information officer, since many police powers may affect the privacy of the individual. In the debate, the members and members of the committee raised a number of questions relating mainly to the intention of excluding police officers from the public service system, possible legal changes regarding police jurisdiction, the number of police stations and administrations, the transfer of police powers to the level of the municipal director, the human resources solution related to the withdrawal of Slovenian police officers from the Schengen border and the approach to solving this problem, and a number of other issues. The Minister's candidate has answered all the questions raised. In doing so, the members and members of the Committee took note of their views, views and opinions and reiterated some of the proposals already made in the presentation. After the presentation, the Committee adopted the opinion by 11 votes to five, with five votes to one, that the presentation was mags. The village of Györkös Žnidar, candidate for Minister of Home Affairs, is suitable. At the same meeting, Mr Boris Koprivnikar, a candidate for the Minister of Public Administration, presented his vision and the development of the functioning of the public administration in his personal introduction. He pointed out in particular that the Ministry of Public Administration sees as government joint services that must provide effective support to citizens, to various organisations and to all public administrations and to the wider public sector, that public administration must be an effective service for citizens and at the same time be user-friendly. The biggest challenge, he said, will be to eliminate excessive red tape, and debirocratisation, in his view, begins with a professional and autonomous official. Four fundamental steps will need to be taken to reform the wider public administration system: to clearly define the functions to be provided by an authority, to set measurable objectives to be achieved by an individual body, to determine competences, competences and responsibilities for decision-making and to deregulation of the system, and to establish a clear monitoring and clear system for measuring efficiency. He further presented his vision of managing the Ministry of Public Administration in specific areas of work. In the field of organisation and staff, it has announced a comprehensive overhaul towards greater functional efficiency of public administration with clearly defined functions of individual bodies, the establishment of measurable objectives, responsibilities and decision-making responsibilities and the establishment of a permanent monitoring system for achieving the objectives. In the area of regulatory preparation, he stressed the importance of respecting the Resolution on normative activities. In the field of information infrastructure, he drew attention to the inadequate current situation in terms of significant obsolescence and fragmentation and highlighted the need for its centralisation. In the area of real estate and movable property management, it has announced a comprehensive review of the costs and contractual relations and an active approach to finding appropriate solutions for all infrastructure needs of state authorities. In the field of territorial organisation of public administrations or administrative units, a real study will be a very important task, which is the most rational solution and will provide the best possible service for citizens. In the field of local self-government, according to its assurances, it should not interfere with the municipality itself as such, but it shows a combination of functions of municipalities mainly at two levels, by organising joint services and, as a second aspect, by bringing local self-government together in the context of development projects. At the conclusion of the presentation, he stressed that, in general, there is a single belief that the situation in the country is not good, but we do not have a single response to how to improve it. The commitment to improve and change for the better, according to the Minister's candidate, begins in the leading positions. In addition, he expressed his belief that there is a highly qualified staff in the public administration, which must be identified, given the appropriate decision-making power and properly rewarded. After the presentation, he was asked a number of questions. He was also questioned by Branimir Strukelj, President of the Confederation of Public Sector Unions of Slovenia and by the state councilor. The Minister's candidate has given answers to all questions, members and members of the Committee to his views, views and opinions, and has reiterated some of the proposals already made in the presentation. After the presentation, the Committee adopted a decision or opinion by 11 votes to 6 and that Boris Koprivnik's presentation as a candidate for the Minister of Public Administration was appropriate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u13	The report of the Committee on Justice will be presented by Mrs Andrej Katič, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u14	Dear President of the National Assembly, distinguished President of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, the rest are present! The Committee on Justice is the competent working body of the National Assembly 15. 9. 2014 presented candidate for Minister of Justice mag. Goran Klemenčič. In the opening presentation, the Minister's candidate presented an assessment of the state of the Slovenian judiciary. He stressed that, although several key reforms have been implemented over the last 20 years, the Slovenian judiciary policy lacks a clear and internal consistent vision of development, and root and imaginary reforms are needed. In this regard, he highlighted in particular the strengthening of the role and responsibility of the judiciary and the State Prosecutor's Council, in particular in the direction of ensuring quality in the judiciary and the State Prosecutor's Office, that it favoured experimental age for new judges, that it would seek to inform the judiciary in all areas, that changes in the field of judicial education were needed in order to establish a system of monitoring the implementation of legislation, that within one year they would introduce a type of Supervisor to the Slovenian judiciary, with which everyone could monitor the state of judicial proceedings. He touched on criminal procedural legislation and announced the preparation of a comprehensive new law on criminal procedure, which will be in line with all key stakeholders. Its priorities include liability for crimes and confiscation of assets of illicit origin. It has announced a comprehensive overhaul of competences and supervision of price collectors, experts, interpreters, executors and managers whose opinions are crucial in the decision-making of judicial proceedings, and it is therefore necessary to ensure their independence and integrity, as well as their speed and quality of work. He also presented measures to address corruption risks and strengthen the responsibility of internal controls. He has announced the unification of the case law. He said he could still see ways to speed up the proceedings. He stressed that the Ministry of Justice, as part of the executive branch, had limited leverage of influence on the judiciary, which is in line with the principle of the division of power and the system of brakes and balances. As Minister, he will strive to ensure the optimum conditions for the functioning of justice, both with the necessary legislative changes and with the appropriate support of the entire judicial system. During the discussion, the panellists asked several questions. The Minister's candidate responded to the opinions and questions raised. After the presentation and discussion, the Justice Committee adopted the opinion by 10 votes to four with four votes: Presentation of mags. Goran Klemenčič as candidate for the Minister of Justice was appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u15	The report of the Health Committee will be presented by President Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u16	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable President of the Government, colleague and colleague! Ms. Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc, candidate for Minister of Health, presented herself in accordance with the Constitution and Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly 16. 9. To the Health Committee and to answer the questions of its members and members. The proposed candidate for the Minister of Health presented herself in person and described her professional, professional and career path in the introduction, stressing that she has the knowledge and competence to guide her through her long-term work. Following the presentation, the Minister's candidate presented her views and guidelines in the field of health. She pointed out that the Minister of Health was the first advocate of the rights and needs of the sick and their relatives, a link between all health workers and those working for the welfare of citizens entering the health system. Its main objective is to ensure a long-term and sustainable health system which, in the face of current demographic trends, development requirements and health needs, will enable all people to have fair access to health services while ensuring their quality and safety. Work will lead to the awareness that a citizen must be at the heart of the healthcare system and the maintenance of a largely public health system that will be widely accessible, quality and based on solidarity and justice. The Minister's candidate was based on an assessment of the state of health system in Slovenia and therefore there is no need to build it completely new. However, because of the changed situation, it is essential to modernise, optimize and adapt to the changing needs and ageing of the population. It further provided comparative data on the proportion of health resources for individual years, resources and the level of resources that have been falling in recent years. It listed a number of measures that will be crucial in the field of health care, namely the application of the principle of optimal quality treatment, strengthening the primary level of health care, increasing the satisfaction of patients and employees, further development of reference outpatients, optimization at all levels of health processes, strengthening the public health system as a development strategy. Key areas will also be long-term geriatric and palliative care, the establishment of community care for the mentally ill, the provision of emergency medical care, information in health care and the reduction of waiting periods. Particular attention will be paid to financing healthcare and health insurance, the abolition of supplementary insurance and the correction in terms of broadening the base for wage contributions to other remuneration. It will be necessary to rationalise the network and improve efficiency taking into account programme specialisation and networking between hospitals. Modernisation of management, management and decision-making within health institutions at all levels will be necessary as the legal system is outdated and obsolete. Changes are also envisaged in the area of partnership. The Health Insurance Office will need to strengthen its role as an active customer of services. The procurement system will need to be centralised and made more transparent, allowing better strategic planning of investment investments. At the conclusion of the presentation, she stressed that, according to her experience, she would strive to reach consensus in the widest range of healthcare stakeholders. All proposed solutions will seek to be achieved through patient dialogue and consensus, as a consensus among all key actors is essential for the success of health change. Members and members of the committee asked a number of specific questions to which the candidate responded. At the end of the presentation of the proposed candidate, the Committee adopted the following opinion by 10 votes to 6: The presentation of Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc as a candidate for the Minister of Health was appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u17	The report of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons will be presented by Vice-President Irena Grošelj Košnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u18	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable President of the Government, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members! Thank you for your word. Dr Anja Kopač Mrak, proposed for the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, presented herself to the Committee on Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons and responded to the questions raised by the members and members of the Committee on 12 September 2014. In the introduction, the candidate presented herself first and briefly gave her CV and experience. Now she is a year and a half minister in this ministry and during this period she has started and completed many projects on the legal safety of workers, social security, employment and social entrepreneurship. Some remained unfinished, such as reorganisation of social work centres, introduction of informational calculations on social transfers, reform of student work, long-term care. And it was because of the latter that she decided to run for secretary again. In the labour market, age segregation and cost inequality remain a key problem, which also contributes to the spread of unfair forms of work. There's an urgent need for student work. The current arrangements for the temporary and occasional work of pensioners will need to be reformed and an active employment policy directed. One of the key problems of the ministry will be the adoption of a long-term strategy to deal with demographic change and the law on long-term care and personal assistance. The sustainability of the pension and disability system is also linked to demographic trends. There will be a need for consideration to be given to the preparation of the White Paper, where consideration will be required in the expert debate on the regulation of our pension and disability insurance after 2020. In the area of social transfers, further amendments to social legislation are necessary in order to simplify, reduce administrative barriers and allow more social work with users. In the area of social protection, a comprehensive reorganisation of existing social work centres is needed, which has been expected for at least a decade. In the area of family policy, it is essential to adopt a new resolution on family policy. They will also draw up a resolution on a national programme for equal opportunities between men and women. The questions and answers of the debates and debaters can be found in the written material and the magnetogram. Most debaters and debaters considered the presentation of the candidate to be both professional and quality and reflected knowledge and understanding of the problem. The proposed candidate for a minister answered all the questions raised, and the members and members of the committee took note of their views, views and opinions, as well as of more concrete proposals for action in the individual areas exposed to the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities. She stressed that there was no law at the time of the Minister, which would not have been in line with the social partners, since she was aware of the importance of social dialogue. The Committee adopted the opinion that the presentation of the candidate for Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities by Dr Anja Kopač Dark was appropriate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u19	The report of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy will be presented by President Urška Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u20	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable President of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I will submit a report on the presentation of the candidate for Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Mumorr, who presented himself to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy 15. 9. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In his opening presentation, the proposed candidate presented a comprehensive assessment of the economic situation of Slovenia, highlighting the fiscal imbalance, the imbalance in the financial market and the imbalance in the labour market. He further highlighted some balance in our country, such as the low level of indebtedness of the population, the market for goods and services and the surplus of the current part of the balance of payments. As the first priority of economic policy, Slovenia's economic independence, i.e. reducing the surplus deficit and reducing the structural deficit to 0% of GDP and reducing public debt below 60% of GDP by 2017. He pointed out a possible area of growth and said that, with regard to public domestic consumption, the greatest opportunity is to make good use of EU funds and to use them wisely. Regarding household consumption, he said that the Slovenian population is among the least indebted in the European Union, so there is an opportunity here, of course, when the credit crunch is released. With regard to investment spending, however, it is crucial to extend the economy and release credit crunches and privatise 15 companies, since the country does not have capital and foreign investors should be encouraged. As a possible area of growth, he also mentioned export growth, where increasing competitiveness is crucial when reducing various administrative barriers to taxes, the legal environment, the labour market and space. He further presented some of the priorities of the Ministry of Finance in the short term. He mentioned the immediate evaluation of the budget for 2014, the possible rebalancing, the adoption of the fiscal rule law, the preparation of the draft budget for 2015 and the preparation for reporting to the European Commission in November. Members and members of the committee asked Dr Dusan Maramor's current important questions in the field of the Ministry of Finance's work in the debate. The proposed candidate answered the questions raised and further explained his views, views and opinions to the members and members of the Committee on certain issues. At the end of the presentation, the Committee adopted the opinion that the presentation of Dr Dusan Mumorr as a candidate for the Minister of Finance was appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u21	The report of the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth will be presented by the president of mag. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u22	A respected choir! Ms Stanka Setnikar Cankar, who is proposed as Minister of Education, Science and Sport, took place at the first urgent meeting of the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth on 15. 9. 2014 presented to and answered their questions to the members and members of the Committee. In her opening presentation, the proposed candidate for the Minister fully presented her past work and views on the area to be taken forward. She said that she would strive for a more rational and therefore for better business and for the allocation of resources to develop the area. At all levels, it will implement criteria and pursue targets that will be internationally comparable. It will seek to cooperate with institutes, institutions and other organisations, as well as to raise funds outside the budget. In primary and secondary education, it will seek to develop quality knowledge, further implement language policy baselines, support for educational excellence, training in a technologically rich environment, provide conditions and incentives for professional development of professional workers, provide conditions for the management and management of schools in accordance with the mission of educational institutions, actively implement policies in the field of children with special needs, successfully involve Roma and migrants, and more effectively implement the national resolution on adult education. In higher education, its priorities will be to provide an environment for the autonomous functioning of NAKVIS, to adopt a law on higher education, to link different sources of funding, to accelerate the introduction of more flexible forms of study, to promote open learning environments, to support the professional development of higher education workers, to raise the level of funding of higher education public service by 2020, to connect research and education and to increase international scientific cooperation. In the field of research, however, it will seek inter-sectoral cooperation at national and international level, the adoption of a new law on research and innovation, the establishment of career models for researchers and researchers, the promotion of accountability and ethics in research, the establishment of a European comparable system of evaluation and the provision of open access. In the area of sport, it will seek to develop a strategy for the development of sport, amend legislation, develop criteria and enforce control over the use of public sport infrastructure, implement a system for greater transparency in the operation of sports organisations and co-financed activities of public interest in sport, and develop and implement mechanisms to prevent abuse in sport. Following the presentation of the Minister's candidate, the panellists and the panellists wanted more detailed answers to some questions. The candidate fully responded to the questions raised and informed the Committee's meetings of her views, views and opinions, as well as more concrete proposals for action in the individual areas exposed to the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. A more detailed presentation of the candidate, the questions on the committee and the replies of the candidate are shown in the minutes of the committee's meeting. Following the completion of the presentation of the proposed candidate, the Committee adopted by a majority of the votes that the presentation of Mrs Stanka Setnikar Cankar, the candidate for Minister of Education, Science and Sport, was appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u23	The report of the Defence Committee will be presented by President Peter Wilphan.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u24	Honourable President of the National Assembly, President of the Government, colleague and colleague! The President of the Government is 9. 9. 2014 He presented the same candidates and candidates for ministers and ministers of the Government to the President of the National Assembly, at which he proposed Mr Janko Webra as Minister of Defence. The candidate presented himself to the members and members of the Defence Committee and answered their questions. The candidate initially pointed out that national security has been threatened over the past period mainly by natural disasters, floods and the devastating effects of life-threatening storms. Therefore, the first objective to be pursued as Minister will be to train the Slovenian Armed Forces Task Force in the event of natural disasters to assist the Civil Protection and Firefighters in order to respond effectively and in a timely manner to these disasters. The second objective, as pointed out by the applicant, is to prepare a national programme of protection against natural and other disasters, which is due to expire in 2015. In addition, the objective will also need to be amended the medium-term defence programme of the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2015-2020. As a third important objective in these difficult situations, the candidate also highlighted the continued use of both police and military helicopters in the provision of emergency medical assistance. An order was adopted at the level of the European Union which regulates this area if it is used by private individuals. In preparing the national programme before natural and other disasters, it is, in the candidate's opinion, important that equipment be made available for the volunteer system. Volunteering is one that has actually enabled us to successfully face the extremely difficult conditions that have been prevailing in Slovenia in the past period. That is why the candidate also wants to enable the development of volunteering in the future. The candidate wishes to maintain all 13 regional information centres in the system of protection against natural and other disasters, because it is difficult to predict where natural disasters may occur. The more we have the ground covered with centers, the easier and more effective we react. In order to carry out these tasks, it will be important to obtain equipment that will have the option of multi-use. In the military area, according to the candidate, the priority is to renovate the medium-term defence programme of the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2015-2020. The fact is that the existing programme is not implemented in the desired dynamics due to a severe reduction in resources. In 2010, we earmarked 1.64% of gross domestic product or 583 million euros for this programme. In 2014, it is expected to total EUR 1.44% or EUR 370 million. This undermined the expected allocation ratio between staff of 50 % for the operation of the system of 30% and for investments of 20%. The real picture shows that we are providing this instant staff funds of 71% of the total resources, 17% for the operation of the system and only 2% for investments. As a priority in the operation of the defence system, the candidate sees also the organisation of the Central Training Centre of the Slovenian Armed Forces in Poček, for which the State Spatial Plan has been adopted. In the framework of combat training, it is very important to build two balanced infantry brigades, one of which would work in the West, the other in the East. This is also the support and starting point for natural disasters when these infantry brigades can successfully be integrated into the protection and rescue system. The fundamental challenge of the Slovenian Armed Forces to provide NATO's capacity remains the construction of a medium battalion battle group, which will be built on 30 armoured personnel. An important contribution of the Republic of Slovenia to the system of liaison is also the establishment of a centre of excellence for mountain fighting, which is expected to start in 2015. With regard to the situation in the Slovenian Army, the candidate pointed out that an analysis of the Defence Act would have to be undertaken. According to some information available to the candidate, as much as 90% of this law has already deviated from what we need for the effective development of the Slovenian Army. The solution to this problem is seen in the fact that the defence law, which we adopt with the two-thirds majority of Members, should be drafted to a lesser extent and include in this law all the most important strategic decisions that must be aligned with both the opposition and the coalition. However, all other matters that have been resolved in this instant in the Defence Act should be dealt with in the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, which is adopted by the ordinary majority. The candidate also touched on the international dimension of defence and protection and rescue, which is mainly related to our membership in the United Nations Organization, the European Union and also to NATO. The planning of our operation within these systems should be based on the candidate's opinion from a regional perspective, but of course Slovenia's contribution to reducing this threat must also be seen. At the end of the presentation, the candidate also touched on crisis management systems. He stressed the need to establish a crisis management and management system based on uniform rules, which will also allow for cross-cutting cooperation, so that, in the face of more difficult situations, we can respond appropriately both at home and in the world. He also wants an extremely good relationship with the President of the Republic as the Commander-in-Chief of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the President of the Government and the Defence Committee. The proposed candidate answered the questions raised at the end. Following the completion of the presentation of the proposed candidate by 7 votes in favour and 2 against, as appropriate, the Minister of Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u25	The report of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food will be presented by the President, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u26	Honourable President of the National Assembly, President of the Government, colleague and colleague! Candidate for Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food and current Minister of Mag. Dejan Židan presented himself to the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food at its 1st urgent meeting on 12 September 2014. In its extensive opening presentation, the proposed candidate highlighted, among other things, the three priorities of the ministry to be implemented during the new mandate period: reducing the administrative burden on agriculture, forestry and nutrition, taking measures for more food, which is linked to the operational implementation of the adopted Resolutions We provide food for tomorrow, and the adoption of measures for the successful operation of the forest and forestry chain. He also presented the necessary measures to be implemented this year, which are related to the stabilisation of the market due to the Russian food embargo, the handling of food surpluses, the prevention of food imports, which is misdeclared, and the assistance to beekeepers due to the damage they suffered this year due to the extremely poor crop. The candidate also explained that the Ministry will pay particular attention in the coming mandate to promoting the production of vegetables, bread and raw milk, with special attention to young farmers and small farms. In the debate, members and members of the committee asked a number of questions to the proposed candidate for the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which concerned, in particular, the increase in food supply, forest management and the functioning of certain institutions in the Ministry of Labour. With regard to self-sustainment, members of the Committee were interested in what set of measures the applicant would create conditions for raising self-sustainment and thereby reduce the country's dependence on imports of agricultural products, how it would reduce the trade chains of domestically produced products. With regard to forestry, the issues were mainly related to the question of increasing the efficiency of forest management and the planned measures to prevent the export of refrigeration, which should be replaced by export incentives for added value wood products. Members were also interested in reorganising the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests and the Slovenian Institute for Forests in order to achieve greater efficiency of operations during the new mandate period. In addition to the above, the issues concerned incentives for young people to take over family farms, the possibility of relaunching sugar production in Slovenia, the possibility of producing industrial hemp, the issue of irrigation systems, the cultivation of agricultural land, the further development of organic farming. In addition to the above, certain other questions were raised to the candidate, which are reflected in the report of the Committee. The proposed candidate for a minister has submitted comprehensive answers to all the questions raised. After the presentation, the Committee adopted the opinion by 10 votes in favour and 4 against that the presentation was mags. Actual Jews as candidates for the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food are appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u27	The Commission's report on relations with Slovenians in place and around the world will be transmitted by President Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In accordance with Article 12 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 230(1) and Article 230(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Mr Gorazd Žmavc was presented as a candidate for a Minister without a director responsible for the field of relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world. After a short personal presentation, the Minister's candidate stressed the importance of the continuity of ministers and expressed satisfaction that, in accordance with the Act on Relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians outside its borders, the institution of the Minister without a licence and the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians in place and around the world. He then presented a first review of the situation of indigenous Slovenian communities in neighbouring countries, highlighting many progress, but said that in all neighbouring countries it was necessary to promote active participation in the countries in which this community resides and to respect consistently all international documents and legislation that further protects the Slovenian minority................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Minister's candidate also drew attention to the importance of the Republic of Slovenia's participation in the economic projects of the Slovenian minority in scientific and educational programmes. In the end, the candidate for Minister has committed himself to further in-depth cooperation in the scientific field, to good interdepartmental government cooperation mainly between the Office, the Ministry responsible for Culture, the Ministry responsible for Education, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, mainly through the network of diplomatic and consular representations. Among the main priorities, the candidate for a minister highlighted cooperation with young people, promoting cooperation between generations, offering opportunities for progress through business incubators and intensive cross-border cooperation. In doing so, he expressed concern about the sharp fall in the budget of the Office and, in doing so, committed itself to increasing it and highlighted the increased intensity of European funds. Members and members of the Commission asked the Minister-Minister-less-resort candidate in particular about the resolution of the financing of the music school in Austria, the problems of the closure of small primary schools in Austria, and the situation of education in Italy. They drew attention to the consistent implementation of international and other legislation relating to the protection of the Slovenian indigenous community in neighbouring countries. They were interested in the way financial resources were provided in the Office, asked about the involvement of Slovenian minority organization SLOMAK in the design of a strategy for relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians outside its borders, the protection of the archives of the Slovenian emigration community and ideas for the creation of a museum of eviction. Following the responses and comments of the candidate for minister to the questions raised, the members of the Commission for Relations with Slovenians in the Inter- and World-wide Vote adopted the following opinion by 7 votes and only 1 against: Presentation by Mr Gorazd Žmavc, the candidate for a Minister without a portfolio, responsible for the area of relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian national community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world, was appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u29	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Joint Left Group, Mr Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr President, respectable assembly, comrades and comrades! Since the start of the crisis in Slovenia, three governments have been replaced five years ago. First, Pahoreva collapsed when she managed to unify students, pensioners and trade unions with proposals for pension reform and small work. Second, Janševa ran into a wall with drastic savings, a forecast of the third wave of privatisation, a bad bank, and the entry of a fiscal rule into the constitution. This too has happened to the people. Third, the government of Alenka Bratušek, who had actually made all these changes, avoided rebellion only by crashing herself before the rebellion happened to her. The rebellion, which has been on the ground since the beginning of the crisis in Slovenia since the beginning of the crisis and the lighthouse of Europe, which has been drawn to us by politicians for the past 20 years, has also received its electoral expression in July 2014. I would not exaggerate if I said that the July elections, at least according to changes in the political power ratios, meant a real revolution for the situation of parliamentary democracy. A total of two thirds of the old Members have lost their mandates. Almost half of Parliament are held by parties who took part in the national elections for the first time, i.e. the United Left and the Mir Cerar Party. The old political blocks are clearly sinking. New forces and new faces have come to the fore. People's expectations are therefore justifiably high. People have chosen new faces because they have trusted that they will bring new concepts into politics and finally find solutions for the path from the crisis. But after today, unfortunately, they'll be disappointed. The new ministerial team, which we have heard in the past week, is not ready and is not capable of radical conversion, with which the country, after its development and social standards, would once again begin to catch up with a more developed West than it has been almost uninterrupted in the last 1970s, except for the eight years of the Yugoslav crisis and depression at the beginning of the transition. The necessary establishment is not expected because the ministers we have heard in the last week do not bring any new concepts and new solutions into Slovenia's political space. On the contrary! According to the hearings, this government will continue all the key projects and policies carried out by the previous three governments. We have heard that privatisation will continue, that public servants must be afraid of their jobs in order to continue saving at the weakest levels, that it is necessary to intervene in pensions so that the harmful fiscal rule will not be removed from the constitution, but will be driven into the process that the largest Slovenian banks will no longer be in public ownership after the end of the term. For the i-point, the candidate for the Minister of Finance named such a programme economic independence. I'm sorry, but if this is economic independence, we're obviously at the time of Orwell's parole type "war is peace, freedom is slavery, ignorance is power". Such a programme is nothing more than the final subordination of this country to foreign power centres and the subjugation of its population to the arbitration of financial markets, which we are so afraid of already. So there is nothing new in the political economic field. There's no reason to support this government. What about ethics? In his programme, the Mayor of Miro Cerar placed ethics and morality first, but after two months of elections, his ethical principles were shown to break every time they faced political practice. When Alenka Bratušek named herself European Commissioner, he could have taken the last word as a mandate holder, but after calling from Brussels, he changed his mind. He'd rather forget his ethics than take offense at the boss of Brussels. Karl Erjavec also named himself, but he did not protest against him. On the contrary! He rewarded him with the post of Foreign Minister. This time, too, ethics has withdrawn from politics. In the case of TES 6, he gave up the joke lobby during the coalition negotiations. In the first drafts of the coalition contract, a review of the power plant's economy was promised, but in the approved contract they deleted the clause and forgot how much it would cost the citizens. Again, ethics has withdrawn from politics. The coalition contract leaves a lot of things open, but one is clear: it will be saved again in the socially weak. Transfers frozen for three years will remain frozen. The policy of the previous two governments will continue, ethics has once again withdrawn from politics. The easiest thing to do is to save on the weakest people who don't have unions and interest associations. I do not want to discredit the government or its ministers personally, simply to point out the differences between words and actions that have already become apparent after two months. Today we get a new government with new faces, but with old recipes and old policies. This mandate will obviously be another wasted opportunity to still take advantage of the opportunities that Slovenia still has and still get them out of the crisis. To take huge state ownership as the starting point for a strategically run democratically coordinated economy, as has been the case with successful countries in history. To make publicly owned banks that would invest where Slovenia has comparative advantages rather than sell them and turn them into branches of foreign banks. To strengthen and build the foundations of an economy that would allow for the autonomous development of this country and future generations, but not to completely undermine them and push the country onto the periphery. No! No! Clearly, it is easier to submit to the dictates of circumstances and to let all this go, and to convince the people with a well-paid piar that this is the way out of the crisis. If that were true, then today Croatia or the whole Eastern Europe, which has made all these changes 10 years or 20 before us, would flourish today from employment, technological development and people would move there massively. No, you don't. Some of these countries have lost a third of their population in the last 20 years, and the differences between the rich and the poor are not greater anywhere in the world than there. Not poverty and misery. And it won't be any different with us either. The United Left will therefore vote decisively against this government today, but at the same time we hope that you will reconsider before the street happens to you. It's not a threat, it's just good advice. If I finish with Einstein: It's crazy to do the same thing all the time and expect different results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u31	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats and Mrs Ludmila Novak on her behalf – has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u32	Mr President of the National Assembly, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, colleague and colleague. Nicely greeted. Slovenia needs an effective government, honest and responsible people. All of this was announced by the Prime Minister. For the time being, we believe in New Slovenia that it is a serious intention to implement such a policy. We realize it's not easy. It is not easy to get the best, most professional, most qualified, most competent people for the ministerial team. I would also like to have even better candidates, even more professional, even more socially engaged, but it is difficult to put yourself on the line for politics when you are exposed from top to bottom, when you are constantly in the media, constantly under the eyes of the critics of people, citizens. That is true, but that is why many do not hope to take this step. That is why I congratulate the President, who, however, chose the team. At the presentations we Members of New Slovenia had different feelings. Some have made real studies on their field and have not stopped at all when presenting their presentation. They also answered questions in detail. In others, we have found that they have little knowledge of the whole area, which they will have to cover, that they may have little political experience, that they may even speak contrary to the coalition treaty, with other colleagues and with the suggestions of their party. That is why we have noted that we should have previously made coalition coordination of candidates in order for everyone to speak in one voice, not cross-cutting, as has been the case several times. But let's give it a chance, sometimes someone talks better and does bad things, and someone does better and talks bad. That is why I still believe that each candidate can also become a good minister. Let's give them a chance, give the government team a chance. People's expectations are high. Mr President of the Government, you have received a lot of support, you have great hopes, high expectations and I want you to be able to do so as much as possible. Therefore, I suggest you go as many people as possible, go among the entrepreneurs, take the officials with you to hear firsthand how expensive it is if for a long time there is a consensus in the drawer, if it is not possible to obtain this or that permission, if we cannot get 50 new jobs, if this is why there is a project. Effectiveness must be improved; administrative measures should be removed as much as possible. I'm still under the impression of yesterday's meeting when I met with managers' entrepreneurs, and I know that these are people who work usually from morning to evening, that they suffer from this family, that they have a lot of headaches, how to get material, how to pay people at the end of the month, and, on the other hand, I hear from some candidates for ministers that they are exploiting capitalists who need to be taxed as much as possible. And I'm worried about that kind of statement. Of course, politics has usually helped those who have exploited people. We also need to be honest and honest here. But those who work from morning to evening to pay taxes, pay workers, and that is what needs to be helped as much as possible, to open up the conditions, and this is the task of the state, this is the task of the government, this is the task of ministers to deal with people's problems as effectively as possible. It's a political task. President, you also spoke of a higher political culture. Here too, we agree with Members of New Slovenia that we need a higher political culture to listen, to hear, to argue and to distract ourselves. And it also hit me live when an entrepreneur told me, "When I listen to your debates in Parliament, sometimes I would like to take the macola and hit it on TV." A enough eloquent statement that we have not been paid for this to mud or anything, but that we are constructively looking for solutions, argued in dialogue and the best for our people. I am pleased that this government also has the obedience of Slovenians all over the world, if I say so, both in place, of our Slovenian communities and of Slovenians all over the world, that we understand that we are Slovenians, and that we all want our homeland of Slovenia to be as successful as possible. Therefore, New Slovenia will also act constructively in the opposition. We will not vote for the ministerial team today because we also have certain concerns because we believe that the coalition agreement, the agreement, the programme is too ambitious, too few reforms, but we will not oppose this team either. We will give this government, the Prime Minister, the opportunity to do as much good for Slovenia as possible, and New Slovenia will cooperate to the best of its ability. Of course, we will also be critical, for this is also the task of the opposition. Good luck to the new government!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u33	Mr Jani Möderndorfer and the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u34	Whoever won the election on July 13th is more than clear. Slovenians and Slovenes, not all those who have received fewer mandates, have made it very clear to know who and from whom they expect to lead this government, to draw up and prepare such a coalition programme and, later, to such a government programme that will meet, above all, what Slovenia and Slovenia expect. This is the results, the growth of the economy, the reduction of the number of unemployed and the consolidation of public finances. All these words, of course, we listen to the last two months when we form the government and when we present ourselves. It was interesting to listen to all the preparations when the coalition agreement came in. In the last two months, we have listened to quite a few thoughts and impressions, saying that in the Alliance we are somehow offended, hurt because we were not invited to the government. On the contrary, we were honored to have been invited, and pleased, regardless of the fact that we are not in the government, that some contributions to our thinking are included in the coalition contract, what and how and how should we operate in the Slovenian space. Above all, I speak at the work of local self-government and in the field of economics. What is important to us is that we know that we have supported the mandate-holder for one very reason, to start very clearly as soon as possible, with the support of Parliament, to form a government. Because time was too short. Today we will not support this government because it is a government where the Alliance is not involved. It also has power in Parliament, 52 votes to win, perhaps more. And with that, she'll have a very good trip for her job, for a job that'll be unforgivable. Today will be the day when the coalition, the Prime Minister, will be able to rejoice and be pleased, and we will allow that to all of you. Especially because these days there will be no more in the future. Above all, there will be no more because there will be very important steps, changes and prudent legislation that will give what we really want. Results. This government presented itself at the time of preparation and, last but not least, at the hearings themselves. We've seen some old faces, faces that were already ministers. These are ministers who know very well how and how they want to make this government better with their contribution. We have also received some new faces that are not yet the most skilled of the political floor. More. In these hearings, we have even heard a few slips that are not so simple. If I give only the case of the Minister of the Interior, who, after the hearing itself, probably did not speak to the Prime Minister or the Minister of Finance or the Minister of Public Administration, she wanted and thought to exclude the police from the public servants system. And also the Minister of Infrastructure made one big lapsus. I hope that the government and its colleagues will teach him very quickly, that there will be an opportunity for investment as well as a second track. This space will, of course, be found in the European Union's funds, in the multi-annual financial period 2014-2020, where the European Union has earmarked €33.2 billion for energy and telecommunications infrastructure projects. Slovenia can bid at least €159 million precisely for this. We expect this government to correct its initial steps at the hearings as soon as possible. These slips do not mean that in the Alliance we think only critical. Far from it. All the bills you will present in Parliament will be reviewed in a critical and vigilant manner, and also constructively where it is good for all Slovenians and Slovenes, we will also support them. But this government also has one plus. This is where the Prime Minister had a happy hand. More. He showed in one segment how to do it. In fact, he invited seven ministers to his 16-member government, which means 43%, even more than you need to run for national elections, which is commendable. It has also given different genders the opportunity to participate equally in government and, last but not least, in decisions that will still be so important. The Alliance will contribute mainly to the five areas of a very intensive, competitive economy, young generations, the fight against corruption, the issue of equality and the issue of local self-government, health and social policy. In these areas, you can count on us. In the new government, ministers and ministers, especially the Prime Minister, we want a lot of happy hands and wise and smart decisions. We will be careful in the Alliance, and we will support you where necessary. At this moment, of course, we congratulate you, the President's final thought, between eight and nine o'clock in the evening, you will be given immense power. Remember, this power really means only immeasurable responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u35	Thank you. The text is by Dr. László Göncz, Italian and Hungarian national communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u36	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice-President, Mr President-in-Office, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In opening, I would like to point out that, even in our Group of Members, we believe that the most important priorities of the new Government must be to effectively stop negative trends in the area of economy and public finances, economically sustainable, transparent and efficient management of state assets, to ensure a social and fair state, especially in relation to the most vulnerable social groups, and to clearly aim for the effective functioning of the rule of law. The task of the government will not be simple, but it is no other way than for the new assembly of ministers and ministers to begin with intensive and responsible work immediately after the election. We believe that in most cases, the presentation of ministerial candidates has opened up the right content, suggested the right visions, and there have also been some very questionable performances and ideas which, or will have to be very carefully thought about, and a lot of intent to change. Finally, the consistent exercise and functioning of the rule of law must be enforced, with the government acting as a model for all other factors. In view of the Prime Minister's repeated commitment, we hope that this will actually be the case. There must be consistent respect for the law in all areas, because otherwise functional legal states simply cannot be. There is no more time for correctional exams than we could symbolically express ourselves, for in all areas the water is flowing down our throats. As we witnessed a few days ago the unrestrained floods in the Land-Doll area of Prekmurje and in some other areas of the country, it is also happening in our society. However, the difference between the causes is enormous. In the case of natural disasters, we can only partially mitigate the tragic situation by appropriate conduct, while the current political, economic and financial situation has generated to the greatest extent the inappropriate, ineffective, morally controversial and lax act of the most responsible entities in various areas. In our Group of Members, we want active, honest and effective work to begin immediately. If so, we will be willing to take part in any good project, in any appropriate law or decision. Otherwise, as it has been so far, we will show and point out in concrete terms with objective posture mistakes and problems. In the exercise of the rights of indigenous national communities, we also have high expectations from the new government. The actual situation in this area simply forces us to do so. To date, discussions with the Prime Minister and ministerial candidates, at least some, have given us a glimpse of the hope that they will finally think more consistently about the implementation of such legal provisions. In the Slovenian public opinion, there was a rather unobjective belief that the solutions for maintaining the indigenous Hungarian and Italian national communities were ideal. Unfortunately, this is not true; in fact, it can be pointed out that formal, constitutional and legal provisions are good, but the realization of these shows a very bad picture, which the last four governments have found objectively. Similar, even more focused observations have also been made by international commissions, which have identified the actual situation in the area of the preservation and development of national communities in the framework of the various activities of the Council of Europe. Regrettably, much more than the mere findings mentioned failed to be made. We're either out of honest will or we're out of time. Commendable behaviour is only a fairly stable funding of the basic programmes and the functioning of the organisations of those communities, where there has been no major reduction. However, certain smaller cuts were, which has already been shown to significantly reduce activity in such small and vulnerable groups. All negative trends together have an impact on the fact that the number of members of the said community is unfortunately falling rather intensively and therefore it cannot be delayed by effective action in this area. We are pleased that under the Coalition Treaty the new government will be prepared to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the laws and the existing international treaties in the provisions relating to the guaranteed rights of the Italian and Hungarian national communities in the Republic of Slovenia. It is important that the Government advocates the upgrading of the level of legal protection achieved by the said communities and, above all, the preparation and adoption of the Act on the Indigenous Italian and Hungarian National Communities and the meaningful upgrading of other legislation. As major problems arise in the area of the application of the languages of the said communities in national mixed areas, it is more than justified that the government declares consistency in this area in public administration, in justice, in public service providers and in public authorities. A very important and challenging task will be to draw up a list of the comprehensive cultural heritage of both national communities, as also supported by the candidate for the Minister of Culture. The essential condition for the existence and development of indigenous national communities is the systemic arrangement for the creation of their economic base, where, despite the intensive efforts of both communities over the past years, nothing has moved because the approach of the competent national authorities has, in our opinion, been inappropriate and, above all, ineffective. Finally, it will also be necessary to maintain systemic budgetary funding for both communities at least at the existing minimum level and to provide special care for educational and other systems of the national communities, including human resources needs. On this occasion, too, we would like to draw particular attention to the provision of a more effective role for the Nationality Office, which, in addition to the competent ministries in specific areas in the new mandate, must carry out an important task in the field of expertise, enforcement and integration. We believe that the efficiency of the government in this specific area will depend to a large extent on its success. In addition to all of this, much will have to be done in the field of raising public awareness of the values of majority co-existence with national communities. Regrettably, in recent decades in this area, there has been a lack of capacity to produce content that has been historically controversial or incomplete and that has created a stereotypically weak or unwarranted information, for the Hungarian and Italian national communities, a very uncomfortably uncomfortably. Today there is often a legitimate demand for a more appropriate form of domestic or so-called civic education in Slovenia, which of course we support. In doing so, the said national communities must also be properly and fairly illustrated and their creation of a geographical space where they are associated with the majority people and other communities. Therefore, they should be objectively classified in this context in the spirit of the challenges of the 21st century. In particular, in general education programmes, in the media and in the field of new communication systems, the most positive could be made in this area. Let me conclude by repeating our expectations for the new government, both in general measures and in actions for the benefit of the whole of society or the country and in terms of the real shift in the implementation of the legislative provisions governing the area of national communities. In the hope that the members and co-workers of the new government will be at the forefront of the tasks referred to by President Cerar, I announce our support for the government's confirmation and wish the new government great luck. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The text is by Dr. Simon Kustec Lipicer, Parliamentary Group of the Mir Cerar Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u38	Honourable President of the Government, Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Candidates and Candidates for Ministers and Ministers, Valuable Assembly, Respected Citizens and Citizens! At today's 3rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, we are voting on a list of candidates and candidates for ministers and ministers of the 12th Government of the Republic of Slovenia. With this legislative act, we are finally confirming the realisation of the elections of the expressed will of the electorate and the electorate to continue leading the Slovenian state. The functioning of the executive branch of power, together with the responsible and smooth functioning of the legislative and judicial authorities, the recognition of the political opposition and the involvement of civil society and the professional public, have been the foundation of every democratic system of governance for centuries. Today we are living in a time of global challenges and trials. Much more so than traditional, ideological political divisions on the left and right conservative ways of leading countries, advanced democracy has varied over the past period according to regional levels of development. In Europe, this means the northern, southern, western and eastern European geographical areas. As basic indicators of differences today, they show the ability of countries to face demographic change, to look for new sources of economic development, to ensure social security, as well as to further develop institutions that are capable of coping with the increasing demands and challenges of the present time. An insight into economic, financial and social development indicators thus shows that, in particular, most of the developed Western democracies in the context of the global financial crisis have managed to maintain a high level of systemic stability, economic competitiveness and know in the context of relative political stability and, following policies of sustainable development and innovation, to find new sources of growth. The annual gross social product in these countries is around 2%. Similar growth rates are also recorded by changes in the market for goods and services and interest rates. Shares of gross social product, expenditure on social security are around 30%. The situation in Slovenia is quite different. The banking and financial crisis, corruption, non-compliance with the rule of law and the crisis of the functioning of political institutions, the lack of confidence in politics, the deterioration of the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy and social security systems raised questions about the future of the Slovenian economic, social and political model. This is the same model that our citizens and citizens, as well as external observers, considered successful in the first decade of our independence in particular. There are several reasons for the current situation. Among them is the absence of a consensus on the direction of further development of Slovenian society and the political polarisation of the country to the left and right, to ours and to yours, which has led to a decline in the capacity of policy to hold a debate on the future and on these grounds leads the country forward. At the same time, the above-mentioned politicisation has led the institutions, with initial clear rules and powers, to transform themselves into the tools of political parties with which they controlled financial and economic resources during their political power, and in this way, together with selected stakeholders, took advantage of the people and public goods they were supposed to serve. That is why today our society, as well as politics, and especially because of the situations described, has faced great challenges. It is necessary to improve the capacity of both the economy and society to create new sources of growth based on knowledge, competitiveness and respect for equal opportunities for all. It is necessary to reform the functioning of the institution of power and how they operate in order to serve people and the public good again, to restore confidence in the country and politics, to control their own destiny, and to enable future generations to develop. Presentations by the 12th Slovenian government team have highlighted the intention of the Government to seek and help find new sources of financial and economic growth in these last days, while, on the other hand, it has been restrictive of further public debt and spending, as it wants to return the country to a map of financial, economic and social competitiveness. In doing so, the role of the State is seen as assistance, as well as thoughtful and designed support for key areas of social and economic activity. Good and future-focused democratic governance is much more than just a series of procedurally functioning government institutions in specific areas. It must be a reflection of the existing situation of adapted and innovative knowledge, values, ethical behaviour and respect, constructive cooperation for the common good of people and countries, which can exceed the classic, used and unproductive practices of political struggle and exercise of the power to acquire party ideological domination with all available means. Also, the methods of directing images, twisting words and arguments, seeking legal voids and inconsistencies, and failing to settle disputes on such grounds, are not the real ways to solve our country's current corruption and all other types of problems. Nor are these funds that have proven to be the driving force behind the progress and development of people and the country through the experience of Slovenian policy so far. In the SMC Group, we believe that the government team and its presented programmes reflect the characteristics of sustainable development in the direction of a support country that builds on public financial stability and long-term economic and social growth based on knowledge and innovation and respect for legal and ethical standards and practices whose effects will positively return to society and to the country. It is the responsibility of the State to create an environment that will enable the development of knowledge and potentials and creativity, and the responsibility of people to know the opportunities that we will use for ourselves, for the people and for the country. In the parliamentary group, we believe that the functioning of the new government will be constructive, integrated and geared towards progress for our citizens and citizens and for the country. That's why we're giving our support to the proposed government team. We promise, however, that the Government will work well with both coalition and opposition parliamentary parties, with the President of the Republic, to respect the democratic principles of the control and balance system vis-à-vis the judiciary and to respond to the voice of all civil society and professional stakeholders, as well as to the local and international public. The 12th government team of the Republic of Slovenia want many successes and good results in its operation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Janša, Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u40	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! While the candidate for Prime Minister Cerar for this speaker before voting on his term of office, as he himself said, for some guidance on the functioning of the future government, we criticised him because there were no objectives in those guidelines, there were no measures, there were no deadlines, there were no numbers. That's when we were promised to get this today. If we first talk about brighter wages, then it must be agreed that today some of the objectives that we can agree that a single deadline has been presented in this sense, that is what we will do in this mandate. The question is, how long is it going to be, but let's say it's some kind of acceptable deadline? And we've heard some commitments that have never been heard before. Above all, this positive side – these assessments – refers to the part of the presentation where fiscal policy was discussed or the most urgent measures to be taken in order to ensure that the basis for economic growth and normal development and life in Slovenia is once again solid. Of course, these goals are not new. This is what Slovenia has been talking about for a long time, everything since 2009, when we were hit by an economic and financial crisis, it has been discussed in international forums, especially in Europe, when it comes to Slovenia, and in some other countries. Today, in fact, these goals are nothing but questions that could even be asked. Since practice has proved in all these years, in the last four or five years, what water does not drink, what water does not drink – in the European family of countries today we have countries that have successfully coped with the crisis and those that have failed to deal with the crisis or who are trying to catch the right rhythm; in short, we know what worked or what did not work. If we limit ourselves to our home space, these goals that Mr Cerar spoke about in terms of fiscal policy consolidation – all of these goals can be found literally with the same wording in this book, which was created more than three years ago in the late spring of 2011, when the situation in Slovenia was significantly better, however, due to the fact that we had more reserves. In these three years and several months since such objectives were first very clearly articulated within the meaning of a coherent programme, our debt has practically doubled. So, the manoeuvre space is significantly less. For this reason, a sentence which has been pronounced here by Mr Cerar, which is only once, but quite clearly mentioned restrictive fiscal policy, is a key sentence of this presentation today, and this sentence is for the future government, which will undoubtedly receive a mandate today, although we will not vote for it, this sentence is both a blessing and a curse. Blessings on the fact that Slovenia, without finally setting things in the direction of consolidation of public finances, reduction of budgetary deficits, exit from the European Union’s surplus deficit mechanism, debt management and so on, without this pay-as-you-go, we will be listening to the same goals at the time of appointment – and in the meantime it will continue to be shorter – even for all future governments, and the situation will continue to worsen. So this trip is definitely the right one. What is a curse, however, is that this goal is set by a government that was not expected to do so. All three parties that make up this government coalition have more or less background, a part of the electoral body, which is legitimate everywhere, interest groups, not to say lobby and so on, who have supported you who represent these parties in this House, so that these changes will not be made. And all of these measures, which were not much talk today, but it is clear what they must be – if anyone is looking for them, they can be found here too, we honestly stated them before the elections, and now this has been discussed later. This is also a policy, I will not say that it is very transparent, but we will soon get here a proposal for a budget rebalancing for this year, a revised budget for the second year, also promised in this performance by Mr Cerar here, a debate and a vote on the law on the golden fiscal rule. Then the moment of truth will come, when action will also have to be presented and finally something about things that have been avoided so far. So the problem when it comes to fiscal policy, properly represented in the direction, is precisely what was later said indirectly to this speaker, that there is no consensus around this, around these steps; and that in the constituency of the rear and those which have an impact on the decision-making of the three parties of the government coalition and also the two who have remained in the opposition, but after what has happened since 1 August in the Assembly Halls, there is no doubt that there is a reserve for this coalition – as soon as there is a need to boycott the meetings of some working bodies and as soon as it is necessary to vote against the biggest opposition party. So, we have a relationship: the government coalition of three plus two in reserve and the background of these political forces presented in this House have voted for you and supported you in one way or another – much more will happen in the future – so that these changes that are being announced here today would not be. There's gonna be a bump against this wall. Even if Mr Cerar has spoken frankly here and has serious intentions, it will be very difficult. Here we offer our hand on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Any measure proposed in this direction will be supported on our part because it is necessary. Although we could have done differently; if, as bad as possible, the better, but we will not, because such a course now leads to a point where it will not be allowed back without more severe shocks. And no one wants that. In recent days, we have heard a conscience that speaks very clearly about this or that confirms what I have said about this kind of policy that has been presented here, in some way against the backs that have enabled – in addition to everything else that marked the legitimacy of the elections on July 13th – such an electoral outcome, that somehow it is not believed, that in people who have been directly exposed in the electoral campaign, I mean the people from the economy, the parties to this government coalition. They themselves do not believe that what has been promised today and what needs to be done will actually be done. We've probably all noticed that the richest Slovenian has moved to Cyprus with his company. The party he supported, these were Social Democrats. In any case, the richest people are among the Social Democrats. [[…]] The party he supported is part of the government coalition, today three, four ministers from this party will become part of the government, which will have scissors and canvas in hand, but he does not believe that the situation in Slovenia will obviously go in a positive direction, so he transferred his company, 460 million worth, to Cyprus. All that we as the opposition are going to say or talk about how much we believe in these promises and how much not, I think it is less indicative than a single step of the richest Slovenian. It tells us all about the expectations of the business environment. I now allow the possibility that there are other backgrounds here, but these have not been presented and obviously the effects are the same as they come from this migration. Not to mention what a signal it is for others not to say what a signal it is for foreign investors if the richest entrepreneurs move businesses from Slovenia, how do you think you will convince any foreign investor to invest in Slovenia now. At least what it is, it'll be waiting. Once again, I have read Mr Cerar's tapegram of the performance, and if we translate it now into English, which will certainly be done if it has not already been done, and sent to Brussels, I can tell you in advance what the assessment will be in the Brussels circles. The assessment will be non-ambitious but acceptable. Perhaps this was the performance, Mr Cerar would have received support here with this team, no matter what program he presented. That's perfectly clear. Thus, the majority in the National Assembly did not need to be convinced, but it is necessary to convince those who, because of the situation in which Slovenia, part of the scissors and canvas are in the hands of our future, not least with regard to European funds, where we have again frozen strong millions due to our own mistakes and monopolies, which we cannot eliminate in time. Well, if it was written for Brussels, it will work for some time, but on 1 November the full mandates of all European institutions will no longer be in place in the pre-election period, the estimates to be accepted in individual countries will be realistic, regardless of whether the Commissioner, who has created problems to a large extent, will also have to be resolved by the future government. However, the moment of truth in relation to these objectives in this sense has been taken seriously or has not been considered, will come very quickly in the coming weeks and months when a budget rebalancing, a new budget for the coming year, when it will have to be faced with the fact that in this year we are paying off the billions that Mr. Križanič has rented for five years, which will obviously now join the National Assembly, and next year those who have been hired for five years in 2010 etc. There are years of payments coming. The government, which will receive the majority today, is composed of or will receive support from three parties, as the Slovenian journalists say, a single-colored political orientation will be homogeneous, as far as this is concerned. This homogeneity, given that the valuable orientations that have been expressed so far have also been presented to voters in the electoral campaign, is in stark contrast to the government programme that we have heard today. This homogeneity will be the same problem as the homogeneity problem for the government of Borut Pahor, which was also so uniform, and that ideologically uniform coalition was falling apart in the living body, not to mention the collapse of the coalition in the last year, which was also one-colored, and obviously nothing helped. In this presentation today, in addition to some more concrete measures, which cannot be avoided in the future and we will wait, we have in particular missed a more ambitious agenda, at least a few more ambitious points of the future government approach in the area of known policy. Mr Cerar said that Slovenia is not an island that holds, but then we heard these classic phrases: we will participate in the European Union, NATO, other organisations, etc. I fear that all of this will not be as simple as it has been for most of the last decade, because the world around us, even in our immediate neighborhood, is changing dramatically. We have a war in Europe, a war involving nuclear power. All countries that are members of the European Union and NATO relations will face the dilemmas associated with this war and with this conflict and consequences in the coming years. Today, a referendum on independence is being held in one of the countries that are important Member States of the European Union. At the same time as you learn of the result of the vote on the Slovenian government, the result of the vote in Scotland will also be known. This result can have very long-term consequences for us as well. This could be another phase of the spring nations within the European Union. We are still awaiting a referendum in Spain or the Catalonians, and many others are announced, even in the Western Balkans, this will have its effects. Even within the European Union, there are a number of nations that are much larger than Slovenia, but they do not have their own country, but no one knows whether this is the beginning of some positive second phase of the spring of the nations within some European principles, etc. or it is possible to initiate a process, a disintegration process of a community that has protected, for 50 years, at least mainly European peace. In this regard, it would also be very welcome to have a slightly more ambitious foreign policy in this country, so as not to fall into any temptation as members of the European Union and NATO to try to play an uncharted foreign policy, as such ones usually pay the highest price in these circumstances. As far as the team is concerned, I think that no Prime Minister in his own party has so far had so many members in the National Assembly, although LDS has received a better result than Mr Cerar's party in 2000, but two fewer members, so this power is great, it may be put together within or even three parties is not needed in the coalition for the majority, for an absolute majority in this House. So it is somewhat surprising that many who have been asked to participate in this government have not landed, we have some names that would otherwise be unfair to say anything in advance, because nothing is known about them, but see, this is a bit unusual for the government. When they are looking for, say, an assistant director or manager of a company that has 20 employees, they are trying to get someone who already has some experience who has done something in this area. When it comes to the ministerial team, there is also a need here in addition to political expertise and some good combination, and there are some results, otherwise, even if it goes badly, for good material, a time of introduction, and time goes by. Here I feel like I'm not the only one who sees a little too much weakness on this team, but when we're monitoring the hearings before the parental boards, it's like listening to a pretty unplayed orchestra that sat together for the first time. Obviously, the team did not get anything before these hearings, where at least the macroeconomic framework would be presented, so that it would not be entangled with completely impossible numbers, but at the same time at some point – it would be completely free of ambition. I've never heard a minister say at a hearing that there's nothing to be done. Then why did he come to this place? Thus, with some exceptions, probably more than expected, such a general assessment of the team is not exactly what Slovenia would need at the moment. You'll say, the opposition always says that, the easiest thing to do is face it, but it's harder when a team like that waits for the real situation. I remember the sentence in Stanek Kavčič's diary when he was last called to the CK when he was suspended and said, "You're not going to start any opposition for us now." He said, "Practice will be your greatest opposition." And that turned out to be true. Unfortunately, the price was high. So, after what we've heard in the hearings, unfortunately, I think about the team we can say that geographical ambitions do not go much further than the Ljubljana bypass, conceptually not much longer than the general recommendations from Brussels, ethically to what are two times the cost of travel charged. Given that Mr Cerar spoke a great deal about the rule of law, for the first time and today, and that there was also a hearing of the candidate for the Minister of Justice for the rule of law, so to speak, perhaps a few minutes of it. Here I have before me a document – as he spoke at the hearing, that the chairman will not say that this is not a topic – which is called the Description of the matter in the matter of control over the property situation of Janez Janša, the KPK party. This document has many pages and 362 running numbers, acts. By the way, when we asked an official when we went to see how many acts there was a bank hole in the KPK and how many files there were, he said that much less. But that's just by the way. In short, there are 362 running numbers and this is a document for which Mr Klemenčič is fully responsible. He spoke a lot about the rule of law, the rule of law, equality before the law, respect for human rights, but when he issued that well-known report by the anti-corruption commission, I think that on 7 or 8 January 2013, this report went directly to the media, without hurting him getting 7 days, as Mrs Bratusek has now received, for an answer, although the law here is clear. Since the law was broken, we complained, and on several occasions, but the complaint was rebuffed; because we were unable to access the judicial file or the file of these cases, we were unable to obtain this list or to look into the documents on which the KPC prepared the report. Then the Administrative Court or even the Supreme Court in another case – I think it was Kangler – in the meantime, since this request was previously filed, decided that the KPK must give the affected a view of the documentation. And then after a few complications, because we had to announce ourselves, and that was not arranged and so on, we reached the deadline and went with our lawyer to Mr Klemenčič's committee. While he was already there in his resignation, he still had a report, a draft report from the Court of Auditors, and therefore "deleted" in due time before it would reflect, but he was also formally the head of the KPK. They brought into some room a mountain of files with these, as it says here, 362 acts. He was such a rinfusion, nothing could be found from that. Then we demanded because every state authority must have a list of matters by law, we asked for a list, we waited for some time, and then we got this list. On this list, 362 acts mentioned in the matter of control of John Janša’s assets were listed, but 55 of these acts were still a little sticky when we waited half an hour for that list to be covered with a correx. 55 files! We asked for an explanation, he was gone for a long time, and then it came to explain that these are matters relating to other persons. If they concern other persons, they shall not be included in this list. If they concern other persons in part, then those data relating to other persons should be covered but not excluded from file 55. In addition, since we copied the file, in cases that are in the file and are also on the list, the acts relating to other persons were not eliminated. There are acts of others in the investigation, many other names and all of them inside were not excluded. Only 55 acts were voted out, which obviously shouldn't have been there, and in some haste and stunts they didn't even manage to make a new list of things, but they simply covered it with a correction, so the trail remained and was obvious. At that time, the Supreme Court annulled the decision of the Celje Administrative Court, which confirmed the KPK report that it had to re-judge, the proceedings were reopened, and at that time those 55 acts were not available and are still unavailable. Even now that it is a new commission, this silence of the body – it simply does not give these acts. However, these acts, which remained, show that the property control decision was in force until May 2012. However, the procedure was carried out at least by 4. 12. 2013 when it's the last list of cases. 4. 12. 2014 I have not been a public official for 6 months, a lot of things are here because they have not been able to eliminate everything. Now, let me cut to the chase. Many cases have fallen down in the European Court of Human Rights because, for example, the parties to the proceedings have not been given access to the court or the administrative file for a few hours. It's been impossible here for years, I'll say. Leta! Even now that the judgment of the Supreme Court is far from enforceable. And nothing happens. Why am I saying this here? Because I have said this many times, but of course the Slovenian media has never reported this in a single letter. Never, it's a taboo theme. It's a taboo theme. And today, yes [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u41	What is reported by Slovenian media, what is not, is hardly part of the agenda on the report of the parliamentary group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u42	Sometimes they also report something unpleasant about where someone was and what they were part of, Mr Vice President. It's also worth reading. But I'm talking about this because the candidate who stands for this violation of the law, who will once and for all be in the mandate that you've faced, has experienced an epilogue. Probably in the European Court of Justice, too. There is a candidate on the list who is responsible for this and he is supposed to be taking care of the rule of law now. In view of the fact that he has not yet held up to the end, he will not, either, and it would be very interesting to observe how, for example, a decision, a final one, an opinion by the Court of Auditors, where it says that Mr Klemenčič has been soundly insulating himself at the time of the economic crisis and a series of things. Thus, the opinion is negative, the Anti-Corruption Commission has received a negative opinion from the Court of Auditors. The man received a negative opinion from the Court of Auditors. All of you have an excuse for the opinion of the institutions and so on, and some of them must be taken into account, you demand respect from us. Now that it's the right color, that's not necessary. The negative opinion of the Court of Auditors does not mean anything for the chairpersons of the body responsible. For the prize, he is proposed as Minister of Justice to make sure that things continue to be the way they were. At the end of the day, something that concerns Mr Cerar slightly more than what he said about restrictive fiscal policy. I had to go after the magnetogram because I didn't believe it, I thought it was a lapsus or that some sides of the speech had mixed up; but Mr Cerar said here: "In recent months, many people are turning to me who don't care about the future of Slovenia and want to make sure that the new policy will work in a coherent and state-efficient way..." Who doesn't want that? "I find that citizens and citizens are very clear that there is no more room and time for political overtures and bills." That too — who would disagree! Let's just wait a few months for the coalition to live. "We are rightly expected and required to live in a country and a higher political culture, of course, together with honest and well-thought-out decisions and measures that will allow all of us to live better." What will be out of this sentence is state-of-the-art because the words are cheap, but Mr Cerar said yesterday, when he came to the meeting of the working bodies, that he declared State-of-the-art support for the whole process, on the basis of which we received, during the proposal by the President of the European Commission, also Mrs Alenko Bratušek. The fact that it is no longer opposed is now declared state-of-the-art. This was said twice, and all the newspaper addresses were made of this. I think it is the opposite of state-of-the-art, now that the new government will not be able to cut this knot, today it will obviously have all the powers and this proposal will stand and this candidate will also go to the hearing of the competent committees in the European Parliament and this will be a great shame for this country. And it is a national fact that, Mr Cerar, this disgrace is prevented. It's not natural for you to close your eyes now because these things won't go away. But most negatively, I'm surprised at the sentence that was put forward immediately after this, and I quote, "People have enough political baballing, bickering, division and blockade, while the country is getting worse and many live in insecurity and poverty." A similar sentence you could read a few years ago at the end of your term in an interview that he gave, now formerly, the president of the state, Dr Danilo Türk. But before that, you could hear him more than once, not about this booth, but in this very hall, that a very similar dictionary was used by John Zemlarič at the beginning of the 1980 ’ s when he became president of the Executive Council. In short, anyone who criticises the regime or authority has been identified as a baboline and, if anyone has been identified as a baboline, has already been identified as a target for repressive organs. For this reason, this sentence, honourable Mr Cerar, is very plunging out. I was the Prime Minister twice, not only have we been criticized, but every move we made has been declared a mistake, even though the results were good. Every mistake, every mistake, has been declared a crime. If there is a criticism of such expressions, then we will soon be there, in times that were typical of Mr. Zemlaric. At the end of the quote from your last paragraph of this, you say: "We have committed ourselves to a policy that will bring stability to Slovenia and a higher political and legal culture, and finally we have committed ourselves to a policy that will go beyond meaningless divisions with the aim of linking, creating and ensuring a decent life. These are our commitments and we intend to carry them out." Both sentences and each word and each letter would be in order to sign if the actions accompanying these sentences and those words were not spoken differently. While you are talking about connectivity, you have been working on the mandate of a member of the opposition since the elections. At this same session, you have a point on the agenda for which your party, while writing these words, announced that it would vote again against the composition of the commission, because I, although I have a full mandate from the electorate, am a disruptive element. Now, if this is the connectivity, look, then these words are less valuable than the ink with which they were printed, unless it's meant in some context that we used to be used to. That I will not be too long to illustrate this very differently these rules apply only to some, for the first-class, for the consecrated. [[…]] During the 1970s, a popular quote from China’s then communist leader Mao Cetung was quoted as saying, at least so in the West: “Let it bloom a thousand flowers.” The papers were written about this, the books, how this is now a new step, when socialism becomes democratic and so on. And then it turns out that Mao Cetung added one more after that sentence, so the correct quote reads, "Let a thousand flowers bloom if they're red." If connectivity and cooperation and constructiveness are meant in this sense, then – no, thank you very much for something like that! Connectivity, constructiveness, cooperation, compromises are possible among people, between political forces that think differently, which are different colors, that is connectivity. But if the approach is that of someone who is serious to you, you want to disable, destroy, and so forth, and at the same time talk about connectivity – see! The interrelationship between the same-minded is in itself reasonable. Let us consider some of the words that we pronounce and follow action.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Jurša, Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u44	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President, a nice greeting, Mr President. Dear colleagues and others in the hall, welcome! The time of the worst economic crisis, when all energy and the idea should be united and constructively directed towards economic recovery, to the rehabilitation of the banking system, to the stabilisation of public finances, to the improvement of public services, to the care of the poorest groups of the population, was chosen by policy to prevail on the political floor. Over the last three years, we have lost a lot of valuable time, as the period since 2011 has been a practical period of political upheaval. I would not mention the main players of these political shocks individually, but I would point out that in 2011, we had our first early elections, that we had a relative winner who didn't know how to form a government, that we had a second Janša government, that we had experienced the collapse of this government, that we had a government of Alenka Bratušek and the fall of this government and had a re-early election. That's how long I've been talking to you. It'll tell you how long we've been dealing with each other. Under the cover of action for the well-being of citizens and citizens, certain political elites have triggered the course of events leading to the re-election of early elections. To the surprises and disappointments of the latter, the people have clearly expressed their opposition to the infertile political arguments of the well-known actors and have chosen a different composition of Parliament; one that gives them hope for a better tomorrow. On 25 August this year, Members and Members of the Desus Group confirmed the new mandate with the desire and hope that it will be part of the difficult tasks ahead of it. The first was to propose competent and credible candidates and candidates for ministerial posts and to form a good government to restore confidence in people in a better Slovenia. So today is the day we choose and decide on a new ministerial team. In the Desus Group, we are generally pleased with what we have had the opportunity to hear at the hearings of candidates on the competent committees. The presentations were clearly focused and realistic. As the advantage of the new government, we see the fact that four ministers remain in ministerial positions. It is wise and good, irrespective of political refreshment, to retain people who have some experience, and to allow at least one part of the executive branch to continue the measures and projects already under way. While the general assessment of ministerial candidates is positive, this does not mean that we are satisfied with exactly everything the candidates have said at the hearings. It's definitely a sensitive topic for us, Desus, the demographic reserve fund. In doing so, we warn the candidate for Minister of Finance that the demographic reserve fund is not a fashionable fly of our promotion, but an immediate measure is necessary, which we will also have to implement in Slovenia because of the demographic situation as soon as possible. The relationship between the working population and pensioners is not favourable and will continue to deteriorate in the coming years. Therefore, the recently adopted pension reform envisioned the establishment of a demographic reserve fund with a clear mission, an additional safeguard mechanism which, after some time, will be filled from different sources, can provide funds for all those populations who now enjoy pensions and for our children as well as grandchildren. The statement by the candidate for the Minister of Infrastructure concerning the second track of the Divača-Koper railway line also sparked much dissension. He does not think that we will need a second track as planned for the next 30 to 40 years. In the Desus Group, we are convinced that if we really waited so long for this project, this would mean an extremely damaging stagnation for Slovenian infrastructure and economy, and consequently the collapse of Luke Koper. But this opinion was corrected in the introduction by the Prime Minister of the Government. We believe that the mandate holder will be able to ensure respect for the coalition agreement both with regard to the exposed demographic fund, the second indent and with regard to other projects set out in the coalition party representatives' agreement. Otherwise, in the Desus Group, we expect candidates to operate in their work in accordance with high moral, ethical standards and in accordance with a coalition contract that we believe will meet the expectations of the Slovenes and Slovenes. The vision of Slovenia, enshrined in the coalition contract, is fair, solidarity, creative and safe and successful Slovenia. Desus has been constructively involved in the negotiation of the content of the contract and has coordinated this with the coalition partners. We have thus developed joint projects that are also compatible with our client's programme. This document, whose implementation will have a key impact on our future in the coming mandate, covers all the key programming points of Desus, such as the creation of a demographic fund, the provision of regress to pensioners, public health, public education, the promotion of social entrepreneurship and the economic priority of our country, including the efficient and economically sound management of state assets. In our parliamentary group, we believe that we will be able to implement our programme together with the new ministerial team, as care must be given to poor workers, pensioners and the unemployed, i.e., the weakest, a priority for other coalition partners as well. Today we confirm the 12th Slovenian government, of which we expect extremely much. Its success will depend not only on the expertise, the work of ministers, but also on the trust of people, social partners and civil society. Of course, we also expect the coherent and creative cooperation of all political groups with priorities and the goal of quickly taking Slovenia out of the crisis and ensuring prosperity for all citizens and citizens. Mr President of the Government, Members and Members of our Group, I will support your proposal to appoint ministers and ministers. We place a lot of trust in you and your team and even more responsibility. If you are guided by high moral and ethical principles, the responsibility of citizens and citizens and the ability to cooperate and compromise, the success of this government will not be missed by our governments. All together, I want much success, wisdom, patience and perseverance in your work, and especially you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han, Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u46	Thank you, lovely Vice President. Dear Prime Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Before voting on the new ministerial team, I would like to urge you to make an effort to understand my address in a sincere way so that we will commit ourselves to the interests of citizens and citizens and the interests of Slovenia today. We have a decision ahead of us to draw a new political map of Slovenia, after which the new Government will pave new paths in finding a lasting way out of this difficult crisis. It seems too often that decisions have been taken here, only for us politicians. When we press the voting button for or against the new government today, respectable, let this be a decision of sober reflection. Let us leave aside today on the side of party sympathy or political likeness based on the apparent arguments under which we are hiding, regrettably, resentment, resentment and indignation, because the elections may not have been met according to our expectations. The dance in masks, when we made decisions here, in this public space, we explained very clearly how we are best, how we are most reasonable, how to do our best in our country's behalf, citizens and citizens, voters and voters said an irrevocable end. The end of the policy, which hides self-punitive politics in the core of its words, accuses who is more guilty of the situation, who is responsible for the big bank hole, under which customer colors are written by the tycoons, who is more responsible for the independence of Slovenia, who, on behalf of the Slovenian people and who fought on the side of the occupying party in the Slovenian territory, whose only rights or whose only true truths are true and whose only true injustices are true. To this, my dears, people have said: "It's over." This has also been said by the end of black statistics, unfortunately, about tens of thousands of unemployed, about young people fleeing abroad, about the fall of Slovenia practically on all levels of competitiveness and about people living on the edge. That is why today, before the decision on the new government, we must turn off this voting machine, which measures exclusively in principle ours or yours. These black indicators are not ours, they are not yours, they are only a guideline that in our actions, not only must maturity prevail in words but a common awareness of the necessity of the country allow for development and progress. Today is not only the time to reject these political costumes once and for all, but it is time to turn over a new sheet of political history in Slovenia. For the second time, voters and voters have put their utmost trust in political novelty. Once again, they put themselves at risk by telling themselves that they want better and that they want more and that false policy signals are getting tired. We're on thin edge. The harsh winds of difficult financial circumstances push us over this edge. The only assurance to keep us safe is that politics starts to lead in one direction – a direction for a better future. I have never, and I will never say that it is wrong if someone thinks otherwise, that all decisions must be unanimous, without a shred of thought, that we will not need constructive criticism from the party's varied opposition, which must keep an eye on the meaning of the coalition's decisions, but that the meaning will have its value and value for as long as we all, but all, although in other positions, act in the interests of citizens and citizens in our decisions. And these have enough animals, and they live badly for you. They are not obliged to endure incompetences, they are not obliged to endure inoperability, political instability and also political circuses created by the scenario of certain individuals. That is why, my dears, we must have a big lump in our throat today, and above all a great deal of self-criticism in our promises and predictions of development and progress, if we are serious. To think that we are on the right track or halfway through just because we have a new government today or we will have it because we have new people, new energy, and that everything will be different tomorrow is, of course, very insulting and underestimating to people. Today, the new government will receive only a tool; a tool that will enable it to do good. Which instrument will this coalition choose in its work, which measures it has taken, is outlined in the coalition agreement. However, we need to know that we will not be helped by such good measures unless we are united in a common denominator to ensure political stability. This is a prerequisite for us to be able to take and implement the necessary measures. The responsibility for ensuring political stability goes beyond coalition and opposition. In an increasingly intertwined network, where borders are both between politics and complex social structures, of course responsibility is also scattered, but for everyone who enters into the process of adopting and designing solutions in any way is no less. We all wear it, and it is on each of us — even today, when we confirm a new government — that we do not withdraw from it. We have also shown by acting in the previous government that putting our backs on political stability is much more difficult and painful – this is also seen in the fact that we have only six Members – and it is more painful than blowing up a tune of populist statements, which Slovenia will not lead forward despite their likeness. The challenges ahead of us will persist on our soil until all of us face them in full. Not the crisis, not Brussels, not the new mandate of the National Assembly, not the new government, nothing will ever be caught as an excuse or a circumstance, why we cannot do anything. The new ministerial team, which is just before the confirmation – well, there are a few hours left in the National Assembly – is facing challenges that require a new approach or a different approach to the old ones, the same problems. They must not yet be burdened with unnecessary politics; they are real, they touch each and every one of us, they touch the lives of all citizens and citizens and they are here. That we need long-term and stable economic growth, birds are already chirping in the branches every day, everywhere. Slovenia, and this is good, although it has been in positive economic growth for the third quarter of the year, which of course cannot be taken on a self-evident or permanent basis if this coalition is not able to coordinate well-coordinated and integrated solutions. It seems to me that a number of times they are repeating themselves in the adversaries that are so well known to us, in the light of the policies already seen, some are difficult to understand. I stress this because many of us, and even outside, are so eager to explain how we must radically change the direction of our decisions, without any real consideration that we are also committed to making decisions by our wider European community. This is quite inflexible in part of its financial policy. Why this warning? Comfortable, but above all, it is pleasing to answer this question that we are a self-sustaining and sovereign state, that no one can and cannot tell us how to solve our problems. Because I expect a glimpse of how to guide it and that there will be a wrong economic policy in the future, which has nothing to do with economic growth, but when it comes to talking like that, we need to know that numbers do not speak in the colors of Brussels or perhaps some imaginary enemy that we are all looking for together in our space anyway. The numbers are just the way they are. They are the same in Brussels, they are the same in Ljubljana, and they are the same in both coalition and position. The data show that Slovenia is in significant macroeconomic imbalances, which will need to be eliminated due to a lasting and successful exit from the crisis. As the candidate for Finance Minister Dr. Marble said at the hearing, there are imbalances in the public financial field, in the financial sector and in the labour market. We can take such measures, we can reduce countless taxes, we can remove all administrative obstacles, and in the long run we will not do much if we do not – as we say at home – "take the bull for horns, for horns or eliminate this imbalance". These imbalances, respected, are not an island to ourselves, problems we can solve, isolated from other measures. The consequences of these are seen in a number of problems, which, as a blockade, are either directly or indirectly felt in all segments of the country: both in an economy that is fighting a battle with great over-indebtedness in the budget, and also in a budget that is becoming a battlefield for the scrapping of pension and health bills. The normalisation of the public financial situation, which I believe is the key to the successful implementation of other measures, must be the implementation through a cohesive and, above all, a calm government policy; through a policy accompanied by trust in the coalition, in the right attitude of the opposition and, lastly, in great agreement and cooperation with the social partners. And that's very important. We Social Democrats have accompanied our entry into the coalition with a great deal of concern and a realistic view of whether the coalition is prepared to commit itself to the values of social democracy. It has not been possible, Your Honor, to condition the subject of party exclusivity. This is a direction that guarantees solidarity and guarantees justice in less popular measures for social-democratic programmes as well. The social state must remain not only constitutional but, above all, a real commitment must remain. We will not deviate from this commitment, as we have also suggested by the proposal to continue to lead the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs with Mrs Anja Kopač Dark at the head. We also committed ourselves to a policy in the talks on entering the coalition, which would continue with the initial good projects of the director, which Slovenia can take advantage of in the long run through the potentials of agriculture and related sectors – Dejan Židan is a politician and expert with this vision. And that the Ministry of Defence will lead Janko Weber, a policy with exceptional experience, we see as a unique opportunity to face some of the problems that have remained unresolved at the Ministry. Social Democrats are aware that it is not only an individual who counts the whole team. Presentations by candidates and candidates have strengthened me in the belief that we have a good opportunity to face difficult and difficult challenges, but should this be said: Better first than last. I would like to remind the President of the Government and this Government of good faith that, in view of the presentations made by some candidates, it will be valid to look again and again at the coalition treaty. The lack, even in these difficult times, of ambition mainly in the field of infrastructure investment, although we can see in the light of the scarce budgetary resources at this stage, is not good, but it will be necessary to find an opportunity with joint efforts to bring the planned investments to life. Finally, let me say that I wish this government much success. Let this not sound too clear when words come from a member of the coalition. I want and believe that taking Slovenia to a better future is the sincere wish of each of us in this Chamber, whether it is an opposition or a coalition Member. Today, the Social Democrats will take a step forward in this commitment and unanimously support the submitted list of candidates and candidates for the new government team. Thank you very much. Finally, let me just say this: Happy Slovenia!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u47	Thank you very much. So the Members of Parliament have presented their views. Now there is a debate between Members and Members. Mrs Urska Ban has the floor to prepare the mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u48	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. All present, well-known! Today we are discussing the appointment of a new government, a government presented to us by the mandate holder, Dr Miro Cerar, a government from which we have high expectations. Following the presentation of all ministerial candidates at the hearings, I believe that our expectations are justifiably high. In the presented team, I have recognized enough prudence, expertise, skills and experience, and above all much better work for our country's well-being, so that I hope that it will be able to cross the border between the coalition and the opposition, cooperate with civil society and thus gain broad confidence in key movements in our country. The government will have to focus to the greatest extent on reaching consensus on measures with more lasting effects, which will result from a substantive debate both on implementation and on financing social priorities. The most challenging resource in this government, or one of the most important sources, is the candidate for Finance Minister Dr. Dusan Marble. The room of manoeuvre with which the Minister of Finance will be able to operate is very narrow, as the situation on the one hand is objectively poor, and on the other hand we will be under the continued supervision of the European Commission throughout the coming months. In these circumstances, our objective, which Dr. Marble made clear, must be economic independence. Yes, there will be a need for fiscal policy by increasing public revenues and reducing public expenditure, and certainly by protecting the weakest and most vulnerable groups in our country. This will be achieved through greater economic growth, more efficient collection of taxes and a reduction of irrational spending. We will be able to address macroeconomic imbalances, financial and credit contractions by restructuring companies, improving corporate governance, privatisation, foreign direct investment and so on. All of this can be achieved, together with increased competitiveness, which will require a lot of inter-sectoral coordination, cooperation and work from the whole government. In doing so, I wish the government a successful job, and I hope that in the interests of the citizens, we will help Members in this debate either with constructive criticism or with support or with our knowledge in specific areas of expertise. I don't think it's really the time for political overtures and things like that. As Dr. Marble said in his presentation, the situation is extremely serious. But if we do everything we can, we'll all end up living better. As he himself said that there are no shortcuts, I believe that today we will confirm the government, which will make smart decisions on professional arguments and expert opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Shircelj, prepare Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u50	Thank you so much for your words, Mr President! First of all, I would like to say that I am very interested in monitoring the performances of the Prime Minister and the President of the Government, and in particular, I am focusing on the words that speak about connectivity, country-building and that we must not be political, about the fact that we need to be realistic. However, Mr President of the Government, with the desire to cooperate better, with the desire to finally introduce ourselves, the Public Finance Supervisory Committee, whose chairman I have called twice for an interview with the Minister of Finance. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I believe this is possible. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we are not so-called mother labour, but we are certainly interested. The Commission for Public Finances is the Commission where the majority of the opposition has, in addition to one other committee for the supervision of intelligence services. However, the Minister of Finance or the candidate for the Minister of Finance apologized twice; once again, when the meeting was convened 5 minutes for a meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, where he had a presentation. According to your words, it is right and it is appropriate that the candidate for Minister of Finance should also come to the committee. It is also fitting because it actually proves your words that it is an integration, that it is a matter of working together, that it is because we are looking for consensus and, of course, that it also gives some role and some meaning to this commission. It wasn't about provocation. But I believe it was a provocation, when all the members of the party Mir Cerar also apologized, twice. And of course all members of the coalition and of course also a member of the United Left and of course Mrs Alenka Bratušek. Is that how you imagine connecting? Is that how you imagine cooperation? Some are words, and some are acts. From word to word, we need to move on to action. If you do not pass, your speeches are, the ones you had when you became a mandate-holder, the one you had today, Larpurlartism – speech for the sake of speech, to make everyone feel good. However, speaking to no one in this country will not be nice, but it will be more pleasant because words will come true or words will become meat, Mr President of the Government. The second thing I'd like to say, of course. I would like them to be much more concrete; to set performance criteria to say, see, waiting periods in the field of health will decrease from 6 months, 9 months, as long as you are waiting for a dentist today, of course, if you are not a mercenary, to 3 months, with a dermatologist from 9 months to 2 months. The building permit is now waiting on average for so long, we'll be waiting for a construction permit for one month or 14 days later. The backlogs in the court are like this today, in a year's time they'll be shorter. And to speak, of course, of responsibility: "We will introduce responsibility for judges for whom it has been found that then the Constitutional Court has annulled their judgments," and so on. You have a lot of information about that. In short, I wish we were so much more real, not in the clouds, we wouldn't live on it. I hope you'll be in the future. The next thing I would also like, of course, is for you or a candidate for a finance minister to tell him how he will make the 2014 budget balance, if 94.5% of the expenditure reserved by the end of the year is already today. You still have 5% of the expenditure by the end of the year. Will the budget of the Republic of Slovenia stop paying bills? This is what suppliers and all those who want to work with the country care the most. The figure of 94.5% was given by the candidate for the Minister of Finance. I'd like to tell you how we're actually going to get to the point where we're going to have a smaller deficit. No more 2.5%. What are you gonna do? Where are you going to cut your spending? You can tell at least the direction, you can tell at least the areas where this can be done, not only that there are too many of these costs and so on and some are unproductive. That's not true! This country has been reducing expenditure for several years and it is necessary to focus here on certain expenditure. Are these salaries, or are they pensions? And, of course, I would like things to be that, when you talk about competitiveness, of course, they also tell you what is going to happen, that this country will be more competitive. What does that mean for businesses? Does that mean less taxes for the good ones? If it means less tax for those most good, how much will the current deficit in the state budget be due to this? I am speaking of a short deficit, because I believe that more revenue will be paid later with greater competitiveness, but this will not happen at first, it is a process. And if at the beginning of the first months of the first year there's less income, how are you going to pay the 40 million extra pensioners you have in the coalition contract? That's a question, too. Thus, it is also likely that all these measures, which are announced in the Coalition Treaty or whatever, need to be divided in time here. In short, I would like you to come with the fiscal rule law to come by setting up public finances, to regulate justice, where ethical and moral rules should apply, and, of course, professional and responsibility, including for the return, for those judges and for those cases falling on the Constitutional or European courts. In short, be more real, be concrete, and, of course, when that happens, I will stop doubting as long as you speak larpurartistic speeches, so long I have the right to doubt. That doesn't mean I'm political, it just means I think and I doubt.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor, prepares Matjaž German.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Today we are deciding on the government's ministerial team, Dr. Mira Cerar, on the 12th government team in a row. The candidates and candidates proposed by the mandate-holder are people who have long experience, and I am sure that they will do their job as well; they say they will justify the appointment to the ministerial posts they will receive today. On the home work bodies, they were all assessed as fit to perform the ministerial function to which they run. In doing so, I would like to point out in particular the fact that the mandate holder, Dr Miro Cerar, has assessed the work of the Minister and the three ministers of the previous Prime Minister, Alenka Bratušek, as ministers who have done their jobs well and are also suitable for the composition of his government. These are Foreign Minister Karl Erjavec, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition. Dejan Židan, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr. Anja Kopač Dark and Mr. Gorazd Žmavc, Minister without a Resource, responsible for Slovenians around the world. Therefore, these candidates propose that these ministries also run in this government. This represents, in my opinion, one continuity of the continued good governance of these ministries and therefore this proposal needs to be supported. As a member of the State Assembly of the Desus Group, it is also a very important fact that the party has aligned with the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, and his SMC client and with the coalition partner, the party of the Social Democrats, the implementation of the Desus programme, and in particular the most important points of this programme. Here I think mainly about the care of pensioners, among them mainly those with minimum pensions living on the edge or even below the poverty threshold. Further concern for all other poor groups of people in the country — this number has risen alarmingly to some high number. Furthermore, I think that workers, even among them, are many who, with their work and the modest salary they receive, cannot survive, cannot live with their families with dignity. I am also thinking of older workers over 50 years of age who lose their jobs because of bankruptcys and similar matters and stay at the Employment Institute, no one is hiring them anymore, no one wants them, and this is the problem of this society, and especially of young people who are educated, who do not have or find a job. Their fate is to be taken into account in particular, and through certain programmes, it is necessary to ensure that they get their first job, gain some experience and then run more equally for job offers. As long as the situation in the employment or employment policy of young people is the same as it is, this population of citizens does not have the basic conditions to develop, to move away from home, to create a family, and there is an urgent need to act. Today, the President of the Government has also talked about this, and I expect that in the coming year or time we will be able to act effectively in this area. One of the most important points of the Desus programme is that, because of the demographic situation of the population, we establish a so-called demographic reserve fund, which will in the long run ensure the filling of the pension fund and thus the stability of the pension system. This, respected and respected, means that through this fund we will ensure that pensions are provided to employees and to the next generation as well. We could talk about other points of our programme, and the Desus programme, which will be implemented through the coalition agreement that we have concluded, I will leave it to my fellow Members. Allow me to express my conviction that with the ministerial team we will appoint today, we will implement the Desus programme, which is why I will, of course, support this proposal for candidates and candidates for ministers and ministers of the government of Dr Mir Cerar today. I am confident that ministers and ministers who will make up the 12th Slovenian government will act in a responsible, constructive manner to act in a coherent and transparent manner to solve social problems and to seek the best solutions for people and the country as a whole. This will enable the mission of this government to be realized, as set out in the Coalition Agreement on Cooperation in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2014 to 2018, which is mainly about restoring the confidence of people in the country, trust in its core pillars of state-run action, political, social, cultural, social, financial, economic and other. Respected and respected! To conclude, I would like to say that I wish to see candidates, who are now candidates and candidates for ministers and ministers, the successful work, the successful management of their resources for which they are running, and, of course, also to a mandate-holder who is respected by Dr. Mir Cerar, I wish the successful leadership of this government. Thank you very much. Good luck to everyone at the end!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž German has the floor. Get Mr. Matjaž Hanžek ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u54	Dear Slovenians! After 23 years of independence, I think we all have had enough of this political training together. Politics has had many opportunities to show itself from the time of independence to this day, to prove itself able; but unfortunately to this day we have failed. All of us, each of us, each of us, have had a chance to show it to this day, to present our best part, our program, our best people. But, as we can see, in Slovenia, it is not a problem in people, it is not only in programs, but in our differences. With these mistakes, when we have been making them in the last 23 years, we can learn something about the fact that mistakes are part of our daily lives, and it is important that we learn from mistakes. It is necessary to learn from them that we can move forward, and I hope that this generation of Members and this call of Members will be able to do so. With all my fists, I will hold my fists for good, so that both our government and our future Prime Minister will manage with all their energy to get through these difficult times. We have sacrificed a lot of social democrats in recent years. It's hard to admit, but we've always defended the social state, the little man, and the work. This is why we will be more consistent in this mandate than ever before, taking into account the establishment of a coalition agreement, so that there will be no departures from that. As has already been seen in the speech of the two leaders of the parliamentary groups, we must also stick to these arrangements. New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, Slovenian Democratic Party, Mir Cerar Party, Democratic Party of Pensioners, Alliance of Alenka Bratušek and the United Left – is the composition of Parliament, which I hope will set a new milestone in Slovenian diplomacy or democracy. We must despise what is negative within us, but we must promote what is within us, what is in our nation, especially for our people and our country. To do this, we must do something historic: and that is, learn to forgive. This was not a custom in Slovenian politics, but if we want to move forward, we must not go back. To make such a move, we must learn, know, understand, forgive ourselves. A very important event is taking place today on the other side of Europe. You probably know that in a political sense, the secession of Scotland from Great Britain in some way means a historical milestone. What we once understood, on this occasion, when we were experiencing independence, we knew this — that we were united and united. This will lead us, this will motivate us, and let us learn from today’s event that it can be a new start for us too. Because we — at least what we have learned so far — are that the indivisible cannot do anything and only when we are united and when we feel Slovenian power, as has been proved in 1991 and even before in history, can we go beyond ourselves. On this occasion, allow me to wish Mr. Mir Cerar all the best in running the government, but not only for you, but for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u55	Mr Matjaž Hanžek, United Left, has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Matthew Tonin, New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u56	Honourable President, Honourable President of the Government, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! At this point, I would like to briefly recall that, as a Member, I am now dealing with the same things as I have done 10 years ago and the then national assembly and the then government have been alerting them to some problems, so I would like to remind the future government of the problems that have been going on for decades now and that Slovenian politics does not want to be aware of them and they do not want to become aware of them, and these are the things that concern the most vulnerable groups of citizens. Two months ago, Slovenia received a reproof or a reminder from the European Commission due to the lack of or a lack of legislation by the complainant of the same possibility. Ten years ago, as the Ombudsman here, I pointed out that it was necessary to do so. Some of the parties who are now in your government have collapsed this project and have remained unfulfilled. It is a shame for the European Commission, too, that it took 10 years for Slovenia to sail, for the Ombudsman to say it every year, and for others. Two days ago, we received the same warning from the ECRI, the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance; a renewed warning about the continuation of hate speech, attitudes towards smaller, hate speech to same-sex, hate speech to deleted and so on. That is not so much what I am saying to you, Mr President of the Government, but a small warning, because there are also some ministers or ministers in your government who have previously been in charge of these areas and have been constantly warned, but have done nothing. For example, the issue of child rights, violence against children, the prohibition of corporal punishment. For ten years, what I brought into the National Assembly is the law on the prohibition of corporal punishment, and then — except for two parties — they are still here — they objected. For ten years, this international document, signed by Slovenia, is not being implemented in Slovenia. The same is true of the institution for child advocates. For ten years, he has been with the Ombudsman because no government or National Assembly has yet regulated the legislation. To be quick, one of the warnings from the ECRI is also the attitude and hate speech towards the same-sex. I would ask you how you will handle this if you say in advance that you will not touch ideological topics: this is, at least in Slovenia, an extremely ideological question. I would like to remind you of a year and a half of the current and tomorrow's Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, who said a year and a half ago that the human rights compromise accounts in the rule of law, which respect human rights, are not acceptable. Of course, that hasn't changed since then. This would be enough for now, and we will see how your government will act in this regard, and we will especially look at what we once talked about in our first conversation: whether this government will do as a collective of feudal countries, where each minister will do his own thing, dictated by a particular political party, or work as an agreed team. In fact, this feudal rule of various departments has led Slovenia to where we are. Let me finish in the light of constant savings. Human rights cannot wait for 2.5% of gross domestic product growth, just when the biggest crisis is, they deserve the most protection. When it comes to fat cows, this problem is less problematic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u57	The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, Nova Slovenija, prepare the mag. Claudia Markež, SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u58	Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! I said today that your ministerial team is now announcing an orchestra, and it is up to you whether this orchestra will play a nice tune. Why do I think that? Since the hearings of candidates and candidates showed huge differences, there are great contradictions. Some surprised us positively, but others also greatly disappointed us. During surprises, I can certainly mention the minister – the candidate – of course all are the candidates – the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Economy and also the Minister of the Economy, the cohesion and special projects, which are very much like reading their programme from this famous book and literally talking about what we talked about before the campaign and even after the elections. We had a feeling that all these candidates understood the situation that Slovenia was in, that they were aware that the current debt was leading us to destruction and that they were also cutting the budget in some way. With increased indebtedness, it means that fewer and fewer budgets are available for some real expenditure and make us increasingly dependent on the foreign side. At least these ministers understood this point, which made us very happy. Of course, they were, however, very disappointed to mention a candidate for the Minister of Health. This programme, which she presented and the direction she was supposed to go to, literally means a breakdown of the Slovenian health system over the next five years. This will certainly happen because it is easy with current principles, in the current way healthcare creates a minus and it will create even more every year if we do not start to radically change something. Another greater disappointment was the candidate for the Minister for Environment and Space. Unfortunately, she showed a great deal of ignorance. We expected you to withdraw it and replace it with someone who has a lot more knowledge, because you know that this area is extremely important for the debarcation of Slovenia, for faster placement of facilities into space, for faster acceptance of many municipal spatial plans, and above all this is an area where very strong lobbying is and where the main masonry of the Slovenian development of ARSO is. We doubt that this candidate will be part of all these tasks. Another disappointment, of which there was much talk, is the Infrastructure Minister, who literally speaks out of place just like you, who is his boss or his guess. These are the reasons why we estimate that this government team of yours has been declared. Even among individual candidates, this publicity has proved to be very evident. The Minister of Finance spoke of the need to reduce public expenditure, there is no doubt, the Minister of Public Administration said that he was not planning major wage interventions, while the Minister of Public Administration said that this system of public servants would remain, the Minister of the Interior said she would exempt the police from the system. In short, quite a bit of a misalignment. But this is just a government team, and here I see a small problem, because as a conductor, as President of this government, you always have the opportunity to replace and replace an individual candidate or candidate for a minister with someone better. There's always this possibility. That's why I don't see too much drama here. But I see a great deal of danger or the greatest danger in your coalition partners. Who exactly are your coalition partners? These are the ones who have been shamelessly involved in the nomination process for the appointment of a new Commissioner and Commissioner from Slovenia. After the public opinion was negative all of a sudden and against this procedure, they also said that they were against it now, despite proposing their candidates at the start, even proposing themselves, and then turning their opinions. You have coalition partners who were first in favour of privatisation, even in Parliament, voted in favour of privatisation of certain companies, and then declared all the time around that they are against privatisation and that they are against the sale of Slovenian state property. You also have coalition partners who say they fight for pensioners, but as soon as they get good positions, they forget about these pensioners. Does it seem normal for you to be a party that is supposed to fight for pensioners not to pursue or fight for a resort that is directly linked to pensioners? I have never understood that the party that talks the most about the pensioner never wants to have a source that actually touches the pensioners the most. This just makes me think that it's not essential here that we fight for the pensioners, but it's essential that we achieve good positions. Their president even says he wants to be the European Commissioner. I don't know how he's going to solve the problems there for all those pensioners who got the decisions today to pay their pensions because they were working because they were good and because even the country was paying taxes. That's a lot of nonsense. Why am I telling you this? To Marsikom, especially your coalition partners, it seems pointless what I'm saying. And I'm going to tell you why I'm going to tell you this -- because they're going to leave you the first moment they realize that their positions are at stake. Because they are not looking to the interests of the state, but to their own political survival. But this is the most dangerous thing for the country and for your government, and it has proved to be a suicide many times in history. In your address today, you have clearly highlighted restrictive fiscal policy, tax relief, debt reduction. Great, but I doubt you'll be able to pull this off in the current composition, given everything I've said before. The most urgent task, which is to conclude that your government is waiting for you, is to improve the use of European funds without delay. It is unheard of that we are left with resources in Europe due to certain administrative errors to stop us from drawing on funds. Even worse is the fact that we cannot write documents on smart specialisation, that we cannot even begin to draw on the new financial perspective; and that the matter will be even more tragic, economists have calculated that the last economic growth is driven by export and infrastructure building on the basis of these European funds. If you want to continue to have a positive climate, you need to do so immediately and quickly. You are also faced with complications with pensioners who have worked and who are now required to return their pensions. Here in particular, I expect the serious and responsible work of Desus and Karl Erjavac to stand up for these pensioners and pensioners who have to pay their pension, not because of their guilt, but because of the error of the Institute of Pensions and Disability Insurance. You will also have a budget balance. I don't think we need to know anymore that we don't need a balance sheet, but if we already have 95% of what was being used, what was envisaged for the deficit. You are also facing a difficult deal with the public sector, which some others already wanted to make for you, and you said: No. That's why you're gonna have a job now. I hope you make it. And once again, we are not the party that adheres to the principle: the worse for the government, the better for New Slovenia. Since we want the good of Slovenia, we also want your government to succeed.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u59	The word has magic. Claudia Markež, SMC, prepare Mrs Jelka Godec, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u60	Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Fellow Member, Honourable Fellow Members! It is true that the predictions of most colleagues here today are extremely black-sighted, pessimistic, yet I hope to argue in this room that at least give us the opportunity to try together to stop measuring power on the left and right, but it is about developing the Slovenia for the development of all our inhabitants. I think that now is the time, although I may be thinking a little bit idealistic, that we are still cutting these guidelines apart. I must say that, as I have been following the presentations of the ministers' candidates and candidates these days, I have felt somehow more time, and I have not been able to pass on the fact that the candidates are aware of the seriousness of the situation in our country and that they are also aware that they must immediately, immediately, be responsible for the work and begin with the implementation of measures that will help to establish the stability of our country. On the other hand, I am aware that their effectiveness depends on our cooperation, on inter-sectoral integration, on a number of measures, and in particular on the awareness that human capital is the key added value of each society. Today, I would like to give an opinion on the candidates who will lead in the future an extremely important resource that will also help to establish the stability of our country. I am thinking of a resource for the economy and a resource for development and cohesion policy. The economic crisis we are experiencing has highlighted in particular the structural weaknesses of the Slovenian economy, especially our unstable business environment, low competitiveness, in fact a difficult and unattractive business environment. You all know that we have extremely long insolvency proceedings, we have a financial spasm, a number of bureaucratic, administrative obstacles that are extremely unattractive for foreign investors. We're dealing with payment indiscipline, untapped potentials in our country. We are aware of all this; we are also ready to act in this area. I am pleased that the candidate for Minister of Economy is a man with rich professional experience from the very practice. Mr Petrovič presented concrete, effective solutions based mainly on his actual experience and on his professional practice. I think that this is its extraordinary added value, and with an expert team that I do not doubt at all, I think that it will be able to realise all these urgent necessary incentives that our economy needs and that will enable stability and a development-oriented economic environment. I believe that the maximum use of knowledge and innovation for final products and, in particular, for services for which we are able to compete in international markets is also essential. I agree with Mr Petrovic that we can only take immediate action to achieve a positive trend and economic growth. Let me only point out some, such as strengthening healthy nuclear systems in businesses, what we have heard here today in this place, then strengthening a healthy business environment that will be attractive to domestic and foreign investors, it is necessary to remove financial cramps – the reasons we all know here in this space – and investing in the technological process, de-barcation, would not stop at this point anymore. Mainly, measures that will truly contribute to the immediate start-up of the economy and the creation of new jobs and thus increase competitiveness. I would also like to point out the candidate for the Minister for Development and the strategic projects of these cohesions, mag. Violeto Bulc, who sees his mission mainly in caring for the balanced, progressive and sustainable development of Slovenia. At this point, I would dare say that we are aware of the lack of resources, of projects that are unfinished and that we will really do everything we can to change that. After seeing our candidate as Minister, we can influence this mainly with those main tasks, by raising the competitive capacity of businesses, then with constructive, inclusive cooperation between ministries and the successful implementation of the already launched development projects. It is also important that we place Slovenia in European integration. I think that this cooperation is of paramount importance and that we are not only giving in to these integrations, but, above all, we are gaining for our people. I would point out here that we really need to finally establish conditions to raise the added value of our people, our businesses and our countries. I believe that both candidates with their professional experience from practice, with their commitment and breadth, will be able and competent to ensure the development and re-expansion of the Slovenian economy. They're not alone here, they've got us behind them, and they've got their expert teams that are just forming. I believe that they actually have sufficient experience and knowledge, but above all, it is important for them to realize that only our economy must be competitive, that resources must be invested in research, development and innovation, while at the same time the start and growth of small and medium-sized enterprises must be encouraged. We can't forget about this place. And again. They are aware that the most important factor in this story is actually the competitiveness of educated and qualified and competent people in our country. In fact, I am convinced that these candidates for a minister can ensure the macroeconomic stability of our country, that they can ensure an increase in the Slovenian economy and that our Slovenia will be able to adapt to the world market. That is why I support them in their candidacy for Minister, and I wish them good luck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u61	The word is Mrs Jelka Godec, SDS. Get Mr. Tomaž Gantar ready, Desus.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u62	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Greetings to all colleagues, colleagues, especially the President of the Government and all candidates for ministers! The President of the Government, see, is also addressed to me by the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, but mainly with the desire to stop planting flowers, to start working and to break our health system due to diabetes, which some can get due to all the beautiful words we sow in the National Assembly. And it's true, everything was clear when we saw the list of candidates for ministers, it was even more clear when we passed all these hearings or presentations of candidates for ministers. Everyone is aware of the seriousness of the situation, everyone is aware of the need to raise the economy, everyone is aware of the need to stop bureaucracy, invest in infrastructure and so on, then on the Education Committee we hear that the dual system is bad, that we will invest in the deficit professions, but we do not know how, on the question of how we will promote the deficit professions, the candidate asked for a lighter question. [[…]] So if we are aware of the seriousness of this, I certainly did not expect such an answer. At the Ministry of Infrastructure, we have heard that the Savinja-Sale region should become a sleeping settlement. I propose to the Foreign Minister that he call Austria immediately and say that our Koros will soon begin to move to Austria for new jobs and that the population of Austria will soon increase. How is it that today the President of the Government has talked about the importance of the second track and the priority of this, while the Infrastructure Minister says that this is not a priority at all. Is this a misdirection to the public? A technical error? We heard it was a lapsus. I want to know how long you're going to have these technical flaws and you're going to be calling them laps or whatever. I think it's really time for us to start working and the laps to stop happening. If I touch only health care. The new Minister of Health is of the opinion that the health system is relatively good and appropriate. This just proved that everything is relative: the analysis shows something, the real state of health – but I think we all know what's going on and how it's happening, you just don't get to know each other anymore. People already know that they have to do an operation, check it out, call for knowledge that things are running faster, because otherwise they're afraid they won't even get their turn. The future minister, I suppose, says for health care that as far as corruption is concerned, she is very confident and says with regard to lobbyists that she has very good references – 8 years at Gaspari and 2 and a half years at Marble – and she is not afraid of lobbyists, so I really wish her a lot of luck here. But I'm going to end up here, we have a sick country, we have 16 doctors, we have one première, and I think it's going to be 16 premeditated doctors who are going to say, "Operation succeeds, and the patient dies." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u63	Mr Tomaž Gantar, DeSUS, has the floor to prepare Mrs Anita Koleša, SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! Perhaps, first of all, I would not like to argue with Mr Tonin about the role of our party in the government on the day that we expect a new government to be invested on all sides of a lot of expectations, particularly by the citizens. I think that we are still aware of the responsibilities that voters have committed to us with an excellent result, and that we have somehow committed this responsibility in these negotiations, either in the preparation of the coalition agreement, and, of course, in the formation of the government, we have already shown ourselves to protect those we have been trying to protect all the time. These are more vulnerable, of course I am talking mainly about the older population, but also about patients, saying those who need health care. I must say that the coalition treaty follows our vision and therefore also by our party: let New Slovenia in particular not worry about how Desus will work. The fact is that the citizens in these early elections have made it very clear what they want and what they do not want in Slovenian politics, and that there is also a huge opportunity on the part of the Prime Minister's team, on the one hand, to change the way the majority did not agree, and in particular the responsibility for the development of events to follow what is enshrined in the Coalition Treaty. As a result, there are also many new faces and I think that this is right and that here, at least my personal opinion is, not a key political experience, but also among the candidates for ministers, but especially perhaps their moral values, their views, their expertise, knowledge, leadership. This was also at the expense of less experience that the candidates at the hearings were able to prove to a large extent. I see no reason why we should not express our trust today, given what has been said and said during this period. I believe that this opportunity is something that everyone deserves, and I also believe that work will be done according to what is written; especially, if that is the case, then it will be for the benefit of all of us. I think we all want it, we expect it, and we absolutely need it. So in Desus we will support the team, wish her luck, and try to participate in the future creatively in the successful work of this government, which we believe in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u65	She has a word, Mrs. Anita Kolesh, SMC. Get ready, Mrs. Andreja Katič, SD.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, dear colleagues, distinguished ministers and candidates! In the Slovenian Parliament, citizens and citizens of Slovenia sent me with a very clear message: "We need a different policy. Change is necessary, and we trust you will act with reasonableness." I certainly don't want to waste their trust. When we first sat together with the President of the Government, he said something else: "This mandate is our last chance to decide on our own. If we fail, we will have nothing else to decide." That is why I did not take care of myself in advance and took decisions by Dr. Mir Cerar concerning his candidates for ministers of the 12th Slovenian government. I know very well that no candidate in the history of Slovenian democracy has been so firmly committed to restoring confidence in the country and its functioning. In the SMC, we have not become Members due to prestige, personal interests, perhaps a desire for a public appearance, so our expectations for all ministers and ministers are that they too do not join the team with such interests. Of course, that's not enough. The country is, we know, in serious trouble. The inhabitants of Slovenia are increasingly poor, lawless, dissatisfied. To save a country in such a state is an extremely responsible action, so we expect ministers to do a great deal: credibility, determination, expertise, excellent leadership skills, and what is more, qualities that come from a good worker in a leading position, while at the same time in the midst of political interests that do not interact at the same point. Some of the chosen candidates may have stepped into large shoes — nothing blinded by the responsibility they take, and I am careful of any expectations. However, the selection of ministers, especially key ministers, who take over the most difficult government departments, gives me a great deal of optimism. Let me think about something else. In recent weeks, we have heard many times that we are late; that we are late with the government, that we are late for action, by privatisation, God knows what else is going on. In short, the government is already late before it has jurisdiction. Of course, it is clear to everyone that our time is a very severe enemy. But we're not late. What's late won't come back. We're starting over. And in most cases on very slippery ground. And we know how to work in such unpredictable situations. Speed can also be a doom. I had heard an interesting comment earlier on the declared orchestra. You know, I work in one of the institutions where our winding orchestra works out. For two months, I have a tightly closed door, and after a month, I can open one, and after two months, this declared orchestra is already a wonderful orchestra that can be performed in many ways and in many ways. There's something else I'd like to add. There are many views and solutions that opposition Members have also offered us. We have all heard or heard, and I am pleased to hear these comments about how they will work and help and support good proposals. So also this optimism that they will really cooperate and prepare good opinions, good comments, may be part of this optimism, which is today when we accept the 12th Slovenian government. And there's one more thing. At the pre-election time, I read on one of the websites of one of our parties, that is, the parties sitting here in Parliament read that our colleague is exploring, I guess, love in politics. I wish I had plenty of material. I wish the ministers, the ministers and our Prime Minister luck. There is much left on their side, but there will be happiness, for happiness is on the part of the brave.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u67	Mrs Andreja Katič, SD, has the floor. Get Mr. Andre Potočnik ready, SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u68	Your Honor! Slovenia needs a government team to trust it. The Prime Minister of the Government, Dr Cerar, has proposed candidates and candidates, and I believe that they will take full responsibility for their work immediately. The social democrats have dealt with the coordination of the coalition treaty with all seriousness and diligence, and we will keep an eye on its full implementation. On the boards, I monitored the presentation of two candidates and four candidates. Let me just mention some. Dr. Anja Kopač Mrak, candidate for Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has already proved to be a work in progress. She also proved to be an expert in her field at the hearing. In particular, I support its efforts to reorganise social work centres, which must contribute to the improvement of work, in particular to the life-longer approach of workers in dealing with people's hardships. Mag. In the past period, Dejan Židan has taken care of the successful absorption of cohesion funds. As a candidate for the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the areas to which he can focus to a greater extent have real priorities. Let me mention only food self-sustainment and a whole wood processing chain. However, I did not fully agree with the views of the candidate for the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić, in particular as regards the third development axis. However, I believe his assurance that he is aware that the Shaleska Valley, Koroška and Upper Savina Valley need a modern road connection as soon as possible and that this will be one of his priorities. But I'd like to point out the following. We are familiar with the resignation of Prime Minister Velenje. I don't know why. It's not long ago when we had a strike in Velenj in the coal mine. The situation hasn't settled down yet. I've never worked in the coal mine, and I'm not an expert in this field, but I come from a knapsack family, if I may put it that way. Maybe the general public doesn't know that you can't just quit your job in a cave like shut down your computer in your office, go on vacation, come back in fourteen days, turn on your computer, check your mail, and start your work again. The work in the cave is dangerous in itself, especially if not all the necessary work is done to ensure the safety of the cave. Dear Prime Minister of the Government, a respected candidate for the Minister of Infrastructure, I expect you to listen. The Republic of Slovenia owns the Velenjska mine. It is known that the company Premogovnik Velenje, which is part of the Holding Group of the Slovenian Power Plant, has not been able to resolve the energy problems of the HSE, which have been dragging for some time now, but are only stepping up. In addition to the fact that it is necessary, especially in the case of workers, to make efforts to resolve the problem we are not yet aware of, even though the HSE leadership believes that policy, particularly local policy, should not be interested in the fate of employees, but at least employees, which is 2 000 500 in the Velenje Coal Group, must be told what fate awaits them and above all the safety of miners must be taken care of. Accidents have been more frequent in recent times, more frequent than the profession expected in currently very difficult excavation fields with very poor geomechanical conditions. The Minister's candidate, when you swear as Minister, will be responsible for the safety of the employees to you personally, as has already been done by the Prime Minister, Dr. Miro Cerar. During the strike, none of the government was in Velenje among the miners. True, it was clear to the politicians that it was interfering with the situation in the coal mine and that the HSE leadership would handle it alone. Now the new Prime Minister of Velenje has resigned. On Saturday, then tomorrow, the miners in Velenje were to celebrate. This year is the second time in the history of the tradition of the event called Jump over the Skin, celebration in September, not for the mining holiday. This was also true in 1991 — then understandable. President of the Government, future minister, please come immediately to the miners and other employees of the Velenje Coal Mine. Tell them what the future holds for them and, in particular, take care of their safety. May the 54th jump over the skin be a gift to mining, a hard work in the dark bosoms of the earth. Good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u69	Ms Andreja Potočnik, SMC, has the floor to prepare Mrs Violeta Tomić, United Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u70	Thank you for saying so, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear Prime Minister of the Government, honourable Members, honourable Members! I am honoured to be able to express my support for the new ministerial team today with great hope for a better Slovenia. I would like to congratulate everyone here on the courageous move that you have made up your mind in these times and have accepted the challenge of running for ministerial posts. The situation in Slovenia is serious, as one of the candidates has already said, but this does not mean that we have to walk with our heads down, rather the opposite; we have hard and difficult work to do. I am sure that every minister in his field will first address the current pressing issues that concern citizens. As we have heard at the hearing of Mr Janko Vebra's Minister of Defence, one of his objectives will be to train the Slovenian Armed Forces units to rescue civil protection and firefighters in the event of natural disasters. This will allow for effective and timely responses to the natural disasters that plague us too often in these times. These are the problems citizens are dealing with that they are interested in. The expectations of citizens and citizens are justifiably high. Slovenia must once again become a reflection of an open, fair, solidarity, just, progressive and self-confident society. I firmly believe that Dr Cerar has chosen a team to restore people's confidence in the country, politics and other basic pillars of state-of-the-art action. It seems important to me that we have nine concrete strategic projects planned for the period 2014-2018, and I therefore reject all indications that the future ministerial team does not have clear objectives. Once again, I would like to express my enthusiasm for the selection of the competent team that Dr Cerar has gathered, and I wish everyone much success in the future leadership of the country. Remember, your work should be guided by basic values such as the rule of law, innovation, sustainable development, social responsibility and human dignity. I have no doubt that, given the past experience you have, you will not know, be able to take countries to a better time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u71	Ms. Violeta Tomić, United Left, has the floor. Prepare Mrs Iva Dimic, Nova Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u72	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable President of the Government, Comrades and Comrades! It is for all of us who are sitting here that we are actually responsible for the events that will follow from today. No one will be able to excuse themselves for not being able to do anything, so I urge you to be constructive. I'm going to talk about two things that I know best: culture and agriculture. At first glance, this may seem different, but culture is the nation's spiritual food and agriculture is food, both of which are very important. The candidate for Minister of Culture approached the culturers and asked them how they could see how they could solve their pressing problems. Here it has established a culture of dialogue that is so badly needed, which is lacking in all sectors. I have to say, the most pressing problem is self-employed people in culture. More than half the artists live below the poverty line, not because they don't want to work and be lazy. A collective agreement for self-employed persons would give them rights, labour rights and social rights. We also need to draw attention to the position of journalists, and the regulation of their status would increase the quality and independence of reporting, at least in the public media. Here, of course, we will run into savings in the public sector, because many think that culture is just an unnecessary cost, although this small sector does generate 2.3% of the total added value. In agriculture, however, we lack a more ambitious programme, a new deal that could still put us at the edge of more developed countries. This policy currently retains the status quo. While we agree with the Minister that it is necessary to help all farms, the Minister's assistance preserves only the forms of farming that have already been avoided. We import about 80% of organic food, which means there is still a large field for domestic crops. The same is true of forest management and wood processing; not only with state forests, but also with forests of small owners. It's the same with new cultures. Here I would point to industrial hemp, which we would also like to process and not export raw material. Farmers need professional and organisational support, which is the task of ministries and their interaction with the Ministry of Economy, Environment and Development. We find it most disturbing and unacceptable that the Members of the United Left have raised a clear question here and the Ministers, who and with what powers are negotiated on our behalf in the infamous negotiations on TISI, CETA and HINT. We asked Mir Cerar, we asked Karel Erjavac, Dejan jeedan, the questions were heard every time and they were unanswered. These agreements will extend to the regulation of culture, social and agriculture. All these measures, with which we want to ensure social rights and equal opportunities, will treat these treaties as distortions of competition or unlawful state aid. Once you have signed an oath, you will commit yourself to inform the National Assembly of the outcome of these negotiations and to protect the well-being of our people. And we will hold you to your word on behalf of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u73	Mrs Iva Dimic, New Slovenia, has the floor. Get Mr. Marjan Dolinšek ready, SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable President of the Government! I myself, like all of you, attended hearings or presentations by ministerial candidates and, as has been heard many times today, in New Slovenia we were amazed at some presentations by individual candidates who did not speak in the same sense as the Prime Minister himself today. He has repeatedly stressed that the ministries will not be allowed to hear the words "we don't know", "we can't", "we can't". I sincerely hope that your ministers will take note of this and write in gold letters, because if I touch only a little cohesion policy and 11 projects that have already been adopted by the previous government, I hope that it will not be possible to get them out of the way, because I think that this would be too much for 11 municipalities, so that some normal local policy can lead to the future. But I will not touch that, but I will touch the area that has surprised us most in New Slovenia, and that was the area of justice. I cannot help but see that we have more than two years since the entry into force of the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin since its adoption. It is said that it was adopted in 2011, half the year before its entry into force, according to 2012 when the prosecution had all the possibilities and resources to prepare the personnel resources and everything else for the operation of this law, but there was virtually nothing or we have just received the first judgment after more than 2 years of the application of the law, which is still not legally binding. I believe that this is a success, as Minister's candidate, Mr Klemenčič said. I don't think it's a success that we need such a long time to get to the first judgment. Because if we're going to work like this to take two years to just move, take the first step, then I don't think we're all good. I think that what I have said is proof that our prosecution and justice are ineffective and that, at this time, if, in 2 years, we effectively implement the law to stick to it, to collect millions and millions that are today God knows where, they would be lost in foreign countries, in foreign banks. Thus, I see here a great deal of possibility that this law will somehow begin to be implemented quickly; of course, justice and the prosecution are responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u75	Mr. Marjan Dolinšek, SMC, has the floor. Get Mr. Zvonko Lah ready, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u76	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished mandate-holders, candidates and candidates for ministers! The will of the people was expressed on 13 July. The result was clear and clear: people want change, they want a better life. We are at a turning point that requires a new policy, and above all a different policy. Let us raise the level of political culture to the level that it will connect us and not divide us. We have before us a team of new governments that have the courage to take responsibility; we have independent professional and working candidates and candidates, they have long-standing practice, and they are not politicians, with what exceptions: let us give them the opportunity and not judge in advance when they have not yet taken their jobs! Let us help them, and let us not be impatient, let us look at ourselves, and let us put ourselves in their shoes. Let us be critical when this is necessary and do not create a negative climate now; let us note irregularities and try to help, not harm. We strengthen the cohesion and strength of our society, let us not create a new division. This was all too much in these 23 years of our independent homeland of Slovenia. Let the client's interests disappear from our daily lives and let our main concern be the well-being, decent and peaceful life of every citizen of our beautiful country. However, I call on the opposition to act in a country-friendly and constructive manner. I would like to remind you of 1991, when we were before the fact: stay and stand alone. We did it together, they don't look at different things. If you have anything to do with our country of the Republic of Slovenia, for which some of us were willing to give our lives, unfortunately, some have also given them. Let's squish the species! We can do a lot together, and we can do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u77	Mr Zvonko Lah, SDS, has the floor to prepare Mr Benedict Kopmajer, Desus.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Here I hear from the positional Members and Members of Parliament that we should wait for the orchestra to come forward and then everything will be fine. I'm afraid you don't have much time to advertise and that you're gathered with too many different winds to come forward soon. The budget balance for this year and the correction of the budget for the following year will have to be drawn up very soon. You will soon face insurmountable obstacles to your promises to the electorate. As our President has already said, we will support all measures that will go in the right direction. Besides some, you won't be able to, because the only ones who lead to a goal are reducing public consumption. I am more concerned that there will be no real measures to increase economic growth, at least not in a short time. We have already been at the so-called hearings, most of us have been asked after these actions by the candidates for ministers, received a bit of the right answers, and also made quite a few recommendations in the right direction and also received confirmation by some candidates that they are right; but when this is to be achieved, you will face great problems in individual ministries. Those of you who praise ministers from the previous term, how successful they have been in drawing on European funds, and I don't know what else, you better keep quiet. If these ministers are going to do the same in this government, I don't think it's too good for this government. On the other hand, I am disturbed by the fact that there is already some kind of creative cooperation and by the attempt to take away the mandate of our colleague Janez Janša, as well as the next item on the agenda, I do not think that this cooperation between the opposition and the position should be pursued in the future. Some of us already have a few miles here, and some experience from the local level, so, believe me, we don't have any good feelings about all your good will to take this policy as best you can. That's why I think you're going to need some sobering soon and some kind of promise that you made to the voters, which is also expected by the electorate, you're going to have to eat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u79	Mr Benedict Kopmajer, Desus, has the floor to prepare Mrs Marusha Škopac, SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u80	Dear Mr President of the National Assembly, President of the Government, Ministerial candidates, colleagues and colleagues! I wanted to start and end with just one sentence that I want the President of the Government to be able to accommodate the government's orchestra and that I will vote in favour of the composition of this government and wish them a successful work. However, in view of this – I will say again until you know me – I am the Member who comes from Koroška, Slovenian Koroška, so that there will be no dilemma. Today, I was encouraged by the fat headlines in the daily newspaper, which covers half of Styria and the whole of Koroška. Allow me to introduce only some of them: the Mačehov government's attitude towards the regions; the position that fuels; the unequal attitude towards all Slovenes; the threat of stagnation and not least For projects we could get European money. These addresses are just the ones that kind of set me on fire if I can call it that, even today, I'm calling about the third developmental axis. By the way, every time I drive out of Ljubljana I spend two hours comparing in Celovec 45 minutes, in Gradec one hour and in Vienna, you won't believe two hours. My highway cross is far from my home, say and write, 15 kilometers or ten minutes by car. See, already Mary Teresa, more than a hundred and thirty years ago, knew that then railway transport infrastructure was very important for the movement of goods and it was a driving force for development, and betrayed our country or our country with railways, which also played an important role in Koroška. Today, we see the third development axis in Koroška not only as a fast road, but it means much more to us: to accelerate the flow and integration of knowledge and new ideas, to open our region for investment, to strengthen cross-cutting communication and, above all, its mission must be to reduce development differences in relation to other regions. It must create development opportunities for both the economic and non-economic sectors and, of course, the basis for enhancing competitiveness and the long-term restructuring of the region, as well as a realistic hope that in the future a greater proportion of the highly educated youth, in which the region invests enormously, will return to the region and, here, to all its potentials, create their own existence. Mr President, in a short time, expect more than six thousand signatures from the Koroška Youth Initiative, which they have collected within two months, which speak precisely of what I have just said. The polycentric development of Slovenia is not without adequate transport connectivity, especially for areas with a third development axis where the existing road infrastructure is in very poor condition. This situation, of course, has a direct negative impact on the decision-making of both foreign and domestic investors on investment in these areas. In view of the fact that some of the procedures for placing a fast road into the area on the 3rd development axis have been completed, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a regulation for the Velenje–Slovenian Section in August 2013, some of them in the final phase and remained in progress – by the way, 8 million euros have been spent. It is therefore unacceptable that the candidate for a minister declares that the 3rd development axis is not a priority. Despite the written statement by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, the Infrastructure Directorate for 23. 5. 2014 which states that in terms of development policy, project 3 of the development axis is identified as one of the key development priorities. We understand the fact that the Republic of Slovenia will not be able to provide sufficient financial resources for investing in transport infrastructure for a long time, but it is not understandable that the competent ministries do not approach the preparation of alternative forms of financing under the public-private partnership model, which has long been known in practice. This is also the subject of this article in the preceding issue. Once again, not to be pessimistic, not to be negative: I wish the government a successful job and I will vote in favour of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u81	There's a word, Mrs. Marusha Skopac, SMC. Get ready, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. Honourable President of the Government, Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to express my satisfaction at the appointment of ministerial candidates for coalition parties. In view of what has been heard on individual committees, I find that with optimism we can look to the future. In her shift, the Minister of Health's candidate stressed that she wanted a long-term sustainable system that would allow all people, in the face of demographic trends, development requirements and health needs, to have fair access to health services while ensuring their quality and safety. In her strategic vision, she has placed the citizen at the heart of the health system, which is expected to become more widely accessible, qualitative and based on solidarity and justice in the future. We agree with the assessment that the public health system is adequate in Slovenia, so it does not have to be built completely new, but because of the changed situation it needs to be updated, optimized and adapted to the changing needs and ageing of the population. I am pleased that the candidate for the Minister is an economist and has also worked in the Ministry of Finance in her long-term career, as it is clear from this fact that at the outset a substantial part of the financial resources will have to be sought within the healthcare system itself, it is said by redistributing funds or savings. Savings – I mean, especially where it won't hurt us. This is savings in the construction, adaptation or energy rehabilitation of buildings; savings in the field of drug consumption. We know that in our countries, huge amounts of drugs end up in trash cans. According to 2012 data, almost 72 tonnes of such waste was collected in a container dedicated to the collection of waste products in 2010 and 2011. It is therefore amazing not only the amount of unused medicines but also the cost of discarded medicines found in waste. In this area, you can obviously save quite a bit of money. Savings are also expected in the area of centralisation of the purchase of medical equipment for all customers. There is no doubt that corruption must be tackled in health care, both in the supply of equipment and in the construction of waste. This is exactly what is expected of the Minister of Health. The number of ministers who join the new government is very diverse. Many of them are not members of any political party. They were invited to the government as respected experts, each for their own field. Some of them have already performed the same functions in the past and will therefore be able to quickly take over the management of their departments, especially where their predecessors have also been cooperative and have been thoroughly familiar with the situation in their work area. At this difficult time for our country, this seems to me to be a very important fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u83	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, SDS, has the floor. Get Dr. Jasna Murgel ready, SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. Respectable, all-respected, high-ranking! In two words – you're amazing! I have to do it again. You're really amazing how easy it is to talk to one another and do the other. You promised more political cooperation and non-exclusion. Today I have heard talk about the need to step together, as Slovenia is in a global crisis. But it is you and your team who are inventing new and new ways to take away the mandate of Janez Janša, even though as an experienced lawyer you know exactly that this is impossible under the Constitution. Moreover, by your party colleagues today we have even heard how the period of independence brings us together. You also promised new faces, more morals and ethics in politics. Let's get started. Your Minister of Finance, Mr. Maramor, has already performed this function during the time of the Robbery Government. Mrs Milojka Kolar – long-standing secretary at the Ministry of Finance, but if I leave her side completely to her former land transactions and to each other. Goran Klemenčič – well-known Secretary-General of the Ministry of the Interior at the time of Minister Kresalov, well-known case, scandal of the NPU unprecedented. Even more so, Mr Klemenčič is known for his role and work in the KPK. In his work, he literally dealt with political opponents under the terms of expertise, and I am only now aware that they were political competitors. In his work, however, he was literally in violation of laws and numerous standards. Let me remind you once again of the Court of Auditors' report, which, under its leadership, literally took the following: it violated seven laws and the law that is even more controversial in it, the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. Some others cannot be mentioned at all. You can think of a marriage that someone should respect the most, he broke himself. And seven other laws. You imagine that citizens and citizens today are breaking the law in such an easy way. Are they going to remain unpunished or are they going to be able to afford such a thing? I would not speak of any other names at all, but I would point out to Mr Karl Erjavac, who already has almost a permanent seat in the government hall; to promise thousands of euros of pensions to pensioners, I do not speak at all. Dreams. I'm sorry for the dream. And they're gonna be for a while. That's what was said. All of them, all of them I mentioned, have something in common. Everyone had their chance. Everyone could have shown their own. It is even sadder when we listened to your ministers' presentations, it literally appeared that they didn't know each other at all, but here I am talking about content. Some promised another, some didn't even know about the other. The most interesting thing is that some literally did not know the writings of their coalition treaty. What is even more interesting is that we wanted concrete answers to the specific questions; and in the 6-hour debate, we did not get any answers from the candidate for the Minister of Education. Yeah, that's what happened. And the saddest part of all is that you surprised me personally. I assume that you were only violating the law because of negligence and did not report your assets. Maybe you did it on purpose, because you earned your earnings at the expense of the tax collectors of the crime you earned the title of a university tycoon. Dear Mr Cerar, otherwise I thank you for your new faces and your highly ethical and moral actions; but, unfortunately, I will not buy them. And if it's like you said, this country won't be sick anymore, but it will be incurably ill.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u85	Dr. Jasna Murgel, SMC, has the word; let the mag be prepared. Branislav Rajić, SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u86	Honourable President, Honourable President of the Government, Honourable Fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Today we decide on the approval of the 12th Slovenian government. I myself will focus mainly on the area of justice, which is expected to be covered by the Minister's Magi candidate. Goran Klemenčič. We all talk about the rule of law all the time, and that's a very obnoxious concept for us. Many times there is an idea, an idea that we can now achieve this by disciplining this judiciary. We will clear up the judiciary and everything will be settled and that the judiciary is solely responsible for what is happening in this country, which is not legal. I believe that future Minister Goran Klemenčič is a highly qualified expert and suitable candidate for the Minister of Justice who has international experience and experience in Slovenia; therefore he is a suitable candidate for the Minister of Justice. Why am I saying this? Because I know the field of justice myself. The future minister announced that a new strategy for the development of the entire justice system in Slovenia, not just the judiciary, was needed and announced that he would strive to accommodate all stakeholders who make up justice in our country. So not only the judiciary, but also the lawyers, all the others operating in the framework of justice, the defence, the prosecution, then other executives, experts and so on. There's a lot of talk here about justice. I will reiterate that justice, in particular the judiciary, is a sensitive system in which we cannot interfere with the achievement of short-term and short-sighted political objectives, but we must be aware that, in order to achieve these objectives, we undermine one branch of power – the judiciary, we also undermine the foundations of the countries on which we stand. The Court, I will also repeat this many times, needs the support of the other two branches of government to carry out projects that have already begun; e-execution and access to public records in the context of this exercise, electronic service, the renovation of the land book already carried out, and so on. Of course, it's not all at the expense of concealing the shortcomings that exist. No one has denied this and no candidate for the Minister of Justice has denied it. What I think is important to me from the candidate for the Minister of Justice is that he has announced what we really do not have, this is the creation of a new strategy for the development of justice. Not only the judiciary, but also the entire judiciary in the Republic of Slovenia; but not so much depending on the day-to-day political developments, but also the design of a sound strategy for the development of justice, which will invite important stakeholders to participate in Slovenian justice – the Court of Justice, the Supreme Court in the Republic of Slovenia, judges, the interested professional public and so on. In this way it will be possible to get what we undoubtedly need in Slovenia, and this is the modern strategy for developing the judiciary and justice it needs. A key point in this is what the candidate for a minister has announced, strengthening the role of the Council of Justice, which is somehow an intermediate article between politics and justice, and could have a different and, above all, a more important, stronger, strengthened role. However, this is also the goal that the future minister sets for himself, not without reaching it at once and without delay, but with thought and with a trembling hand, as it is called, and with the participation of all those who can contribute to the reflection of this strategy. It is also important that the future minister intends to continue and speed up all the projects that are already under way and have shown certain results. In particular, I think it's important to keep the judiciary informed. Some things have already been started, but they're not finished. The Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia works intensively on these projects and has already produced results. It is also important to emphasise here that the candidate for a minister emphasises the importance of exercising control over the judiciary, but not by strengthening political control through the Ministry, but by strengthening the role of the Council of Justice. No one talks about the need for oversight; it is needed, but it is in an appropriate manner. The findings of the candidate for the Minister of Justice are important for the judiciary. Two of them are crucial, namely that many things in the Slovenian judiciary still need to be regulated, but with the support of other branches of government and not by seeking an exclusive culprit in justice; also for reasons that are not entirely due to justice or justice alone. In doing so, I strongly agree with him that there must not be some kind of cesovo solidarity here, but cooperation; hence that the shortcomings be identified and gradually resolved. Here I see the added value of the future Minister of Justice. And something else seems very important to me – that the Minister announced that his criticism of justice within the limits of legally permissible criticism and that he would not go down to the level of the search for the sin goat, especially in justice, and that, as has happened quite often from this scene, he would undermine the reputation of this branch of government, which is also a commitment under the coalition agreement of the future government. I believe that the candidate for the Minister of Justice is more than adequate, because he understands justice, not just justice, and he also knows the builders of the justice system, for which he is also prepared to take responsibility – because he has already taken responsibility for a lot of things – to put them in place and update them accordingly. This is the only way to achieve the goal that he has set for himself and the entire government. I'm sure he's capable of doing this, so I'm going to support this minister and the entire government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u87	The word has magic. Branislav Rajić, SMC. Get Mrs. Erika Girl ready, SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u88	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Respectable mandate-holders, ministerial candidates, colleagues and colleagues! Initially, I predict that my debate will not contain surprises. Of course, it is clear that I will fully support all ministerial candidates and candidates. Their professional résumés make it clear that they are respected, successful and experienced people in their areas, which have not been launched into the ministerial set-up by politics, but rather by good practice and competence – especially those with rich experiences – or extraordinary talent, knowledge, drive and determination when it comes to the youngest among them. This was also confirmed by their presentations and by the positive reactions of objectively thoughters. We have heard comments that some ministerial candidates have worn too many shoes. The comparison with the band was also heard. The harmony of the orchestra is impossible to evaluate when the bus brings musicians to the concert hall; let us wait for them to play the first theme. As Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Policy and as a member of the Committee on Culture, I have had the opportunity to follow more closely the presentations by Mr Karl Erjavac and Mrs Mag. Juliane Bizjak Mlakar, so I will focus in the debate on their plans and vision of ministerial work. I respect Mr Erjavac's efforts to open the door to new markets through diplomatic routes. Economic diplomacy is one of its main approaches in trying to capture more exports and open up to foreign investors. I also believe that its strategy in Slovenia's special role in the process of bringing the Western Balkan countries closer to Euro-Atlantic integration is far-reaching. He made it clear that Slovenia's main objective in the arbitration with Croatia is to gain access to the open sea. Without a word for it, he explained the facts of the current affairs and, in every way, an understandable way to tell the beans in question. Following the presentation of concrete short-term objectives, he announced the adoption of a new strategy for Slovenian foreign policy and therefore I think it is quite appropriate for him to continue commanding the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. They say the candidates are listening to us from a special place; that is, Good Luck, Mr. Minister! Who's the name of the magician? Juliane Bizjak Mlakar appeared for the first time in connection with the application for Minister of Culture, there was no perception of the enthusiasm of the culturers. In only two weeks, a plant took place, mainly thanks to her personal involvement in conversations with artists and others from the cultural sphere. And this offered deadline and attentive ear transformed a person's non-grass into a candidate for the Minister of Culture, who is a culture that does not reject priori. At the presentation of her ministerial programme, she showed a good general knowledge of the issues of all cultural sectors. Moreover, it has shown its willingness to listen to specific problems and to correct its own views on the basis of arguments. It is true that she is not a cultural woman, but she is cultural and active. It will be able to accelerate the use of European funds for culture and strengthen cultural diplomacy. She will make a Slovenian trade mark out of culture, predicts a favourable arrangement of the status of self-employed in culture, proposes to carry out cultural projects in conjunction with other ministries; she also sees architecture and architects in culture, which is the last hope for our breeding grounds during the agony of construction. It will support the digitisation of the art foundation and thus improve the accessibility of cultural content and raise the level of cultural literacy. He sees national television as one of the most important cultural institutions, especially when it is further depoliticised under its ministry. If within a few days she managed to establish a dialogue with previously unloved cultures and prepare them for trust, there is no reason for her to continue to question the effectiveness of her approach. That is why I believe that coalition partner Desus has proposed the most appropriate candidate of her kind. Finally, with a kind word travel and with good wishes for a successful job, I would like to give all ministerial candidates a kind thought to all those who are stuttering at the beginning of the mentioned navel about candidates who have worn too many shoes. Anyone who compromises his goal does not have to give up the right to achieve that goal. When we open new paths, life does not always serve us with shoes of the right size. In a situation such as the state and society, it appears that no one, not even ministers, can find the ideal shoes. I believe that all of us here agree with the fact that it will be easier to walk the goal in our shoes than against him desperate to pry barefoot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u89	Mrs. Erika Deklava, SMC, has the floor. Get Dr. Vinko Gorenak ready, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. Honourable President of the National Assembly, President of the Government, colleague and colleague! I am personally pleased that we will finally get a government in Slovenia today that will be responsible, responsive and constructive. Only such a government can restore people's confidence in the country and its institutions. The government will thus be able to continue with some good projects, many of them will have to be set up again, many things will have to be abandoned, repaired or changed. People rightly expect much from us — and we can actually do much if we look to the future and are able to find and expose good and positive things. It is important that we know when to commend and not only criticize someone, even though some in this National Assembly seem to be called upon to do so. The fact is, we need to take a step forward and when we need to assess the situation in a self-critical way. Finally, it was evaluated by voters, and we must not forget this — not those who were satisfied with the evaluation, not those who were not with it. I'm not just gonna be general. As a member of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, today I will touch vulnerable groups in the labour market, focusing on the disabled, as they face twice the unemployment rate of other social groups. There are many more who are excluded from the labour market and are therefore not covered by statistics on unemployment. Vulnerable social groups need greater social security, more opportunities to re-engage in society and the working environment, and more opportunities for a self-sustaining and decent life. I am pleased that the envisaged coalition measures include measures to harmonise professional and family life, the adoption of a resolution on family policy and measures to improve the quality of life of persons with disabilities, in particular in terms of promoting the employment of persons with disabilities, adapting the number of seats in the public network and transferring assistance to the community. A call was also issued days ago for the selection of social inclusion programme providers for a period of five years co-financed by the Ministry. Currently, 497 people with disabilities are involved in social inclusion programmes; however, it is encouraging that integration dynamics are increasing. The 2015 budget already provides funding for the implementation of the programme for an indicative of 550 persons with disabilities. I believe that all these existing measures, together with new ones, will contribute to increasing the employability of people with disabilities and improving their quality of life. This area is very broad and substantively very difficult. Based on the presentation of the content in this area and the candidate for the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, I can say that the measures are appropriate and good and that I support them. I, of course, extend my support to all other candidates and candidates for ministers, because I believe that the proposed team is good, courageous and ready to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u91	Mr Vinko Gorenak, SDS, has the floor to prepare Mr Danilo Anton Ranc, SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u92	Thank you very much. If the judge praises the candidate for justice minister in the Republic of Slovenia, then there is something wrong with the candidate for minister, given the situation in the judiciary; but we will have ample opportunity to face our views and reason on this. The time I have at my disposal, but I think, I must give the President of the Government a simple reason, because you are now through here, which is very grateful to listen to everything; but I know that, given the nature of the work, you are actually here, except for the questions sent. There's one thing to say. You won the elections with some passwords – the rule of law, justice and so on. Here today we hear some of your Members talking about state-of-the-art, about the constructiveness of the opposition, about the fact that we must ignore the party's interests. It's all good and good, because underneath it all I sign. But now I must set up the mirror for you, Mr President, as your party's Members. Look, the opposition has a role to play in each Parliament, because otherwise it would not be. Parliament would have been as it was by 1990. Among these three things, one of the most important things is the Commission for the Control of Security and Intelligence Services, where we know that the opposition has a majority, where we know that the opposition gives the President. The second issue is the Committee on Public Finance Supervision and the third case, in part also the Commission for Petitions and Human Rights. To date, none of these institutions are functioning. It doesn't work why? The Commission for Public Finance Control and the Commission for Petitions cannot act because your Members do not attend the meeting. They write a collective apology so they don't rip their wages off, and they're gone. So it's impossible for these two institutions to work. Then how can we talk about cooperation, constructiveness and so on? I think you should ask yourself how constructive you are and how you cooperate; because at least you do not participate in these institutions. Finally, we had the Commission to supervise the security and intelligence services, where you smoothly rejected it, rejected it, and did not. Tomorrow you'll probably do it again. President, I think you'll be able to hit on the table with your own. Why? For a fundamental reason, because you are without the Commission to oversee security and intelligence services and refer to some reason because you do not like one of the members of this committee, who knows most about these services, is unacceptable. If we put this within the framework of your efforts, or your pre-election passwords – the rule of law, justice and so on – we, the President, tell us which is the legal article that prevents you from confirming this commission. I have to say, I was surprised last time, and I opened my mouth when I listened to you on TV. And I hope, I don't know if it was a mistake, if anything was taken from the context and so on, I don't know. But more than your actions, I don't think it was taken from the context. You said at the time that it was not acceptable for someone who was convicted to sit in Parliament. Tell me the article of the law, tell me the article of the Constitution. If you tell me the article of the law and the Constitution, I'll step down and I won't talk about it anymore, because I'll say you're right. So if you're pleading for justice and if you're pleading for justice, then you have to respect the right to always and for everything. And the person we're talking about, Miro Cerar or Janez Janša, is still right for everyone. And it's impossible what you said there. As for the ministerial team, I can't judge everyone. What I heard from my colleagues was still quite good, what I heard on those two committees where I participated. Speaking of what the colleagues said was on the infrastructure and elsewhere, he's talking about the ministerial team in his own right. I read somewhere earlier that someone said it was the LDS's second league, and I'm not gonna judge it. But I'm going to touch two candidates for the Minister for Justice and Home Affairs. As far as the judiciary is concerned, the judge had previously given praise to candidate Klemenčič and had forgotten to say all the things he should have said 15 times after finding the Court of Auditors. That doesn't matter. That's of great importance. By taking this person on your team, you have heavily dyed your government left-handedly with the colors of your predecessors. That's what you need to know, this person on the team was marking the color of your government, that's a fact and you can't do that. On the other hand, I will not particularly praise anyone in this hall, but if I do touch internal matters, the situation is also very eloquent. I know these two people and I've known the candidate for the Minister of Justice since before, Mr Dobovsk, so we won't get carried away, but I've been waiting for him there. Because these are some of the skills that you open up to Cobiss, you press enter and you see what time it is. And then you can't read something to a man, you can't argue with him if you see that he's just an expert in a political party. Now there is a lady who is not an expert who sees everything in the criminal police, and she does not know that the uniformed police solve 96% of all crimes. I understand her, she's closer to the crime police through her mother. All right, everything's fine and well, but I think you had a much better choice. I haven't spoken to Mr Dobowski in a year, except for the last time we laid hands on the committee. Your explanation of how it is here in the National Assembly; you know, if I had an old mother, I'd say that this one is "sfulil"; it's about that. But I'm not getting into it. Anyway, like I said, I want you to take this mandate to get the country to where it belongs. But first, hold on, please, to the words you've said, and don't have "smurmpfantl," because you know what that means. Keep a meter of 100 centimeters, and use it for all persons, whatever that person is written. And don't let your name Janez Janša bother you. But I can see it's bothering you. Keep the same meter for everyone and take out the mandate. I want you to succeed, because after all we are so far away that it is more than five minutes past twelve; but in such a way, with such gentlemen as the Justice Minister and another one who thinks he will settle a little road from Slovenj Gradc to Metlika, the country will be saved, but I think it is not a good journey. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u93	Mr Danilo Anton Ranc, SMC, has the floor. Get Mrs. Bojana Muršič ready, SD.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u94	Dear Mr President of the National Assembly, honourable President of the Government and distinguished colleagues and fellow Members! I'll be a little shorter for a change. I come from an economy where things are specific and sometimes there is a need to be a little shorter and also something to do. I also see Slovenia as one of the larger corporations and in some economy, and from this point of view, my views in this direction are also so oriented. In this respect, too, I am fully convinced by the team you have chosen, the distinguished President, because I see in them operational people, coming from production, including with experience in the real sector and other areas covered by them. Perhaps you'd like to say a word, Mr President, about your attention when you visited Koroška, Najevna Lipa, which is a symbol of the Slovenian Empire. And let us, honourable parliamentarians, honourable parliamentarians, look at matters also in this light. There was no major party leader at this meeting of statesmen after the liberation. There was a respected Dr. Cerar here. And here's the mission for all of you who don't somehow realize that you finally have to take matters into your own hands and start working, without any bickering, drowning, and so on. And this symbolic act and visit – not only the Najevna Lipe, including the companies Metal in Koroška, sports events, youth events that we processed in one day – are a sign that gives me so much more optimism that you, respected Mr President and your government team, will also act in the future. It is that you will not act as a cabinet government, but that you will see, with authenticity in the field, the problems that arise and also solve them. And that's where I see the right team and the right leader. And not only that, I would also draw the parallel of Najevna lipa with Quarantine and the Land of the World. This is very close, perhaps this message was that we will finally choose a team here in Parliament today and trust her to take Slovenia to a better time. And as far as our strengths are concerned, natural resources. I often say that Slovenia is a rich country with different natural resources that should be used. And here I see just the opportunity, especially for economic sector departments, in the area of intersectoral cooperation, to connect, to become the 'green chip' of Silicon Valley in Europe, and show that we know Slovenia from better times. I fully trust the team, President of the Government, and I wish her a successful job! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u95	Ms Bojana Muršič, SD, has the floor. Get Mrs. Ksenija Root Kramar ready, SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, Your Honor! The parties to Mir Cerar's vote in the last elections gave the largest number of votes. Today's time has come for us to also get government ministers who will do their jobs and have full powers. I think that we are all aware here, as well as the citizens, that we are in a difficult situation; we are particularly aware of the responsibilities entrusted to us by the voters. Before the new government are extremely difficult and difficult times. A lot of political consensus, integration and understanding will be needed, but I believe that this new government team proposed by the Prime Minister will be able to do so. The new ministerial team will number sixteen ministers. There has been a lot of controversy about the number, but I must say that the decision to have a Ministry without a resource responsible for the development of strategic projects and cohesion is one of the most important determinations of the emerging Government, which we must adopt at all levels and make a mental leap in the way of thinking and functioning of the wider political civil society sphere, all for the sake of the well-being of integrated development and the progress of the country. In her presentation, the candidate proved that today we must be guided by the desire to finally break the ice; from good ideas, good solutions and courage we will make a developmental breakthrough of Slovenia. I see the Ministry as the nerve of the entire system. However, with good cooperation, integration and coordination of all the resources listed in 1 + 1 it can make us even 4; but only with strong conviction that strategic projects and development do not remain a dead point on paper, empty words, but are not only an opportunity, but also a guarantee if we want a long-term, advanced society. A society where areas work for themselves, according to their own logic, but according to the principle of a common vision and a better tomorrow. Social Democrats are also aware that it is good that we will have a Ministry of Public Administration and a minister who will be able to spend more time talking with trade unions. I believe that the candidate will do this well and will be successful for the benefit of all of us. It will also be able to devote more time to the development of local self-government and to bringing together those tasks of local self-government that can be rationalised; and at the same time, it has demonstrated that it will undoubtedly respect the autonomy of local communities. Particular concern will also be given to the non-governmental sector to upgrade existing mechanisms, change initiatives and positions. Our candidate, by the Social Democrats, for work, family, social affairs and equal opportunities reflects a great deal of expertise and practical experience. I am therefore convinced that we have the right candidate for this ministry, which it has proven so far, in a good year and a half of its ministry. Despite the pressures of people, I believe that it will improve the situation of citizens and citizens and eliminate inequalities by amending legislation. Finally, let me say that the first priority of the new government must be the start-up of the economy and the creation of conditions for new jobs. The priorities ahead are to calm political passion, make effective use of resources from the new financial perspective, strengthen the development potentials of the public sector, public health, transparent governance of state assets, solve bad banking claims, fight crime and corruption, de-de-irocracy and sustainable use of natural resources. We believe that this proposed ministerial team will be able to do so, including the President of the Government, and we guarantee that we will keep a close eye on all other ministries, and not just the three ministries covered by our candidates for Social Democrats. We expect constructive cooperation so that there will be no instigations, insults, and we will step together and take a step forward. However, the new Slovenian government wants a lot of patience, cooperation for the welfare of citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u97	Ms Ksenija Krenjak Kramar, SMC, has the floor; Mr Andrej Chuš, SDS, should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u98	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable President of the Government, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members! The foundation for successful social and economic development is the existence of a rule of law. The Ministry of Justice will play a key role in providing it and further systemic support. The work of the judiciary has already been marked by some key reforms, such as the reduction of judicial backlogs, the Lukenda project and the electronic land book, however. Slovenian justice needs further reforms, such as internal control systems, education, further judicial information; of course, these must be conceived and professionally justified. As the candidate for the Minister of Justice, Mr Klemenčič, stressed, justice needs a clear and consistent vision of development based on professional analysis and integration and the participation of all the building blocks of the justice system. To this end, the role of the Judicial and State Prosecutor's Council will need to be strengthened in order to ensure the quality of the judiciary and the State Prosecutor's Office. A system of monitoring the implementation of legislation will need to be put in place, allowing preparers to respond quickly and reactively. I welcome the placement of the area of liability of legal persons for crimes and the confiscation of assets of illicit origin among the priorities; and the fight against corruption and the acquisition of State records and uniform case law in order to ensure legal certainty and predictability. Our social and economic situation is such that it is still necessary, particularly in order to restore people's confidence in the justice system and create an economic environment that is predictable, conducive to domestic economists and also attractive to foreign investors. I propose that today we support the government in the proposed composition, because I believe that with its knowledge and experience it will do good, responsible, quality and effective work. I wish the new government a great deal of success in my work!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u99	Mr Andrej Chuš, SDS, has the floor; he should prepare himself for Dr. Franz Duck, United Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u100	Dear Mr. Commissioner, colleagues and colleagues, a nice greeting! At the beginning of the debate, I would like to say that I support efforts to consolidate public finances, because I think it is time to finally stop excessive debt at the expense of our common future. In the last few years, it has simply been such that we can say that we have committed ourselves to the rate of EUR 1 million per hour, and this will certainly not benefit us, our Slovenian craftsmen. I will certainly support such solutions, which will go into consolidation of public finances. I was present at three candidates' hearings, and I must say I'm a little skeptical. There was a lot of talk about different theories, theoretical solutions, and there was little practice. I was even more skeptical or almost appalled at the statements made by the candidate for the Minister of Infrastructure, who said that we do not need the most important infrastructure project in the Lower Podravje at the moment. You all know, I've been talking about the Drazenci-Gruškovje motorway section, which has been on the subject for years, decades. And the project has come to the point that there has been an application for a building permit, the financial structure is closed, European funds have also been acquired, and now the minister says that this is not necessary. Let's do a Western Ljubljana bypass. Here is a big problem or a reminder from my side, take into account the principle of equal development of Slovenia in the future, because we all find that Ljubljana is highly or above-averagely developed; other regions, especially in the northeastern part of Slovenia, are seriously underdeveloped. And here I really urge you to sit down and have a little conversation with your candidate. And last of all, I'd like to say that you're starting a government with a very bad passport. Yesterday's event on the European Union Affairs Committee made me very sad that you rejected the conclusions there to call off or withdraw Alenka Bratušek's proposal for a European Commissioner. I am simply asking how you intend to lead the government in these difficult times, to adopt reforms, and so on, when you have neither the courage to replace the European Commissioner's or Commissioner's proposal and thus put a more suitable candidate, who has references and support to the public. Clearly, it is a policy of new faces, but also of old practices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u101	The word is from Dr. Franz Duck, United Left. Get Dr. Bojan Dobovšek ready, SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. Mr President of the Government, comrades and comrades! I'm not gonna be a courtesan because I'm running out of time. For starters, like my colleague Benedict, I'm going to read some statements, and you're going to try to figure out who said that. "I met both the President of the Government and the mandate holder and the financial minister's team. We had a very good conversation, which showed very clearly that the new government will use the same approach as the outgoing one in economic direction in Slovenia. Did you create a good chemistry with representatives of the new government? Excellent. We didn't know each other, but we had a really good time. We talked to the new mandate holder in private, we also met at the finance ministry, and the atmosphere was good and positive. What obstacles do you encounter most in Slovenia? Compared to two or three years ago, they are no longer available. The agreement of the outgoing new government shows that the economic strategy should remain the same." The gentleman talks about operations and so on, it is a former British government senior official born in 1959 in West Bengal – Suma Chakrabarti, President of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in Article 3a, in the fourth indent, states that the Government informs the National Assembly of such matters. This is more of a flight to a party that is obviously more concerned with who the lady will take with her to Brussels. What I wanted to say earlier, I'll tell you when I explain my voice. Now I would touch tax policy a little bit. There's a lot of talk going on here, I'm going to talk about data, in principle it's percentages or rankings, I'm going to compare Slovenia with the average of the European Union, it's Eurostat's latest data. Tax share in GDP, Slovenia 37.6; EU 39.4; only Croatia has a greater share than us. We do have high taxes, but indirect taxes, which affect the poorer, Slovenia 38.8; EU 34.5 in all taxes. The excise duties Slovenia has, say, the third highest in the European Union. Direct taxes that affect the richer, according to the household, pay attention, Slovenia 20.8; EU 33.4 in all taxes. Indeed, our highest income is taxed at 50%, but most of these people avoid it, so we in the United Left have also proposed a different tax. Highly taxed, however, is already the next income class, 41%, which essentially captures, sociologists would say, the lower middle layer. Work in Slovenia is, of course, taxed, burdened, social contributions 40.5; the fourth in Europe, but there is a huge difference between the employer's contributions and the employer's. The employer's contributions are lower than the European average, although the Chamber of Economics speaks to you differently and are 16th in the EU, but the workers in Europe are indeed the highest in this context in terms of social contributions. If we go to the so-called implicit tax rates – but Google a little bit – I don't have time – which show the effect of tax burdens, say the so-called ITR on capital, Slovenia 19,6; EU 31. Tax on the income of legal persons – Slovenia is 27th in the European Union. These are hard facts; one said that will hard f We are aware of them. [[…]] I would agree with former comrade Ivan Janez that we are talking about non-ambitious programmes; we have been talking about non-ambitious programmes in Slovenia for almost 20 years. I'll only touch the Infrastructure Minister. The European economy is in crisis, and I agree with some unsuspectingly successful candidate for the European Parliament – a key to deepening this crisis is the decline in investment. In the European Union, investments fell by 16.7 from 2008 to 2013, and foreign demand saved us. There are also few instructions for any more important ministers and more in explanation of vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u103	The word has been prepared by Dr Bojan Dobovšek, SMC; Mrs Janja Sluga, SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, the Honourable Commissioner! In the turbulent times in which we are, a small party initially received very much support from people and won the elections. The promises she made were: the rule of law and the competent people. In view of these promises, Mr Cerar has courageously set up a government, made up of people to whom he trusts completely. In view of this, we expect the rule of law to be implemented for the first time, which means that the right relationship between Parliament and the government is established. What's happened so far? So far, governments have always subordinated Parliament and power has moved to the government. And those who wanted to change the laws that were in his favor subjugated the government and through the interest groups achieved that the laws that were passed were in the interest of these groups. And now, for the first time, we have a historic opportunity, given the size of the party that has the largest share in Parliament, to put Parliament in the position that belongs to it. It is said that Parliament takes over the legislative function, we give the government that executive function, and we give the judiciary the role of control over the functioning of the rule of law. This will bring us closer to a model that we have traditionally represented, called the German model of the rule of law – the Rechtsstaat, which allows human rights and, on the other hand, limits the sovereignty of the sovereign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u105	Mrs Janja Sluga, SMC, has the floor to prepare Mr Simon Zajc, SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u106	All in attendance, all in attendance! Thank you for your word. First, I will say that last week I had the privilege of attending a celebration at one of the festivals of a small local community in our congregation that I had never had the opportunity to get to know better. But I drive by every day, I see a road, I see a river, a few houses, dusted by the quarry and placed between the two steep slopes of the hills, which just last week hit the beach again. There's barely enough room for the road and the river, and only a few times is there to see any country. However, this cultural event in the House of Liberty has shown that there is a very successful branch primary school, library, voluntary firefighting society, flunky, cultural society, two ensembles and even a singing choir. Each countryman contributed something to this event, and they granted recognition. In such a small community, I think that the good works of these people who received the confessions are even more valuable, and a special emphasis was placed on how much pride, how much pride, good will and enthusiasm were put into this event. In those moments when I was sitting there, I wanted all of us 90 Members to sit there to feel this community, this positive energy, and these good thoughts of people who put their souls into the event; people who know how to appreciate good works and sacrifices, who obviously know the importance of culture for a nation and for a community that even so small. I attended the so-called hearing of four candidates myself. She's a candidate for Minister of Culture of Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar convinced me at her presentation on my mother's working body that she attached sufficient importance to culture. Of course, the public heard the most evidence of her ignorance of the area. However, if we look at past experience, we can well see that expertise in the field has never been a guarantee of its successful leadership. There were a number of ministers who were experts in the field, and yet they failed. But they were also the ones who succeeded in spite of this. The candidate's presentation showed that she was aware of the importance of culture and its role as an important factor in the development of society. It foresees concern for public interest in culture, concern for excellence, quality and accessibility of cultural content. It is also aware that cultural policy must become part of other public policies, it has announced a focus on a new cultural model aimed at improving the situation of public institutions, NGOs and self-employed people in culture. It highlighted the more effective use of European funds in this area and the strengthening of cultural diplomacy. It is also aware of the importance of quality cultural and artistic education in schools, which I think is very important, as this builds our future generations. At the presentation, the candidate acted as a connecting person, which is extremely important in such a sensitive area as culture. Artists are a special kind of people, and they need to be treated with special sensitivity. It has also demonstrated its connectivity through a self-initiative approach to dialogue with culturers, by listening to their views and problems. She gave the dialogue a lot of emphasis, which I particularly like. I do not remember that in the past a ministerial candidate with such a hearing and an initiative to engage in dialogue before his appointment would turn to the public concerned. Its CV also gives rise to important managerial competences and knowledge of public finances, the functioning of the state and local communities. In this place, I express my trust and faith in the entire team that Dr. Cerar collected and selected, and I want a happy new government! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Simon Zajc has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! Today we confirm the list of new ministers. It is customary for members of the coalition to praise the list, members of the opposition criticise it. Of course, there has also been a little commendation, but if it is so commendable that you actually commend yourself, it is even better. I feel that we need both — criticism and commendation. Ministers need this, they need praise for keeping the level of motivation at a sufficiently high level; because now in this period where we are, the work they will do will be full of bad news. They will face problems in their own district, not as much money to save themselves as they would like to, so it is good that there is also an incentive on our part; and that they remain motivated, as they should. But they also need criticism if this criticism is accompanied by proposals to address these critical problems. And after what I have heard here today, it seems to me that from all sides of this House – the opposition and the coalition – will come quite a bit of this criticism, which will be constructive. It actually makes me happy and hopeful with one hope that this government will do well. I was alone at the hearing of the four committees, I will mention only one, this is the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, where I am vice-president, Mr Židan presented himself. The Jew showed that he knew his own department, that he knew him, that we all expected him to be a minister. I agree with the priorities he has highlighted, but at the same time all of us have also had our comments, which he did not mention. For example, we had hemp, I mentioned the problem of seminary in Slovenia, then there were other proposals. And mag. The Jew showed his willingness to listen to us, and his willingness to cooperate with us. And this seems important to me, this seems important to all ministers, that they will have this ability to listen and to us who are in Parliament and to all the interested public. And as far as I know this ministerial team that's being proposed today, I think they'll be able to do that. That's why I think the team is well-assembled, and I'm sure it'll do well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mag. Ange Logar, prepare Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u110	Thank you, Chairman. The beginning of the mandate is always a special moment. The old government is leaving, the new government is coming. In a way, there's a new hope. I regret that today, in fact, due to the recent chronic absence of Alenka Bratušek, I will not see the handshake and handing over the baton to the outgoing Prime Minister to the new Prime Minister of the Government. I think it's some kind of normal political folklore that we're all going to be deprived of together today. Mr Cerar said that the crisis is still here and is deepening in some areas. This is probably what he said on the basis of a report by the Finance Minister's candidate, who, following a review of the state of public finances, found that the poor four months before the end of the budget had already been spent 94.5%. That is why the Prime Minister of the Government has probably announced a restrictive fiscal policy. In his presentation speech, the Minister of Finance also gave the hearing a red thread of his work, which was the balance of public finances. If in 2012 this word caused protests on the street in a moment, the situation today is different. The coalition, which has a programme to balance public finances, even includes social democracy. In these moments, we are full of words for days, or the government coalition is full of words about new moral and ethical standards. I understand this so that when a coalition has to decide between a political opportunistic act and an action that is fair, fair and ethical, it will always make no distinction between the latter. Even if it's a person from their influential circle. I support your promise here – zero tolerance for health corruption. But I'd like to hear the word zero tolerance for corruption in general. Even to that personal corruption, the use of a political position for personal purposes. I also support your announcement that you will direct the public administration, the public sector to work for people, that there will be no sentences like you have been saying here: we are not yet competent, we cannot, we cannot. But, Mr Cerar, in the last days, we have heard the most such phrases from your mouth. You made a commitment at the beginning of your mandate to go beyond division and introduce a higher political culture. Your story, this promise begins today, with your confirmation. For everyone's sake, I want you to succeed. Let me conclude with the words of one of the foreign diplomats who said: "I hope the Mir Cerar Party is aware of the responsibility it has with the promise of a moral-ethical rebirth. For if she does not serve with this, or if she does not keep this promise, then what will be left to the electorate." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish. Let's get the mags ready. Tanya Zink.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u112	Thank you so much for saying that. For this intervention I have prepared some comment and consideration of the areas of health and education, but in the middle of this discussion, which we have been listening to all day, I have found one thing that I have decided that I cannot go through, and I need to comment on it. Now you may laugh, but I think this is also a very important part of the political culture that has been being talked about a lot lately. Maria Teresa did not build railways in our home. Maria Teresa took up her reign, if I am not mistaken, in 1740 and ended her reign in 1780. The railway, which came to us, was the first southern railway, the so-called southern railway in Austria-Hungarian times; in 1846 it arrived in Celje, in 1849 in Ljubljana, and then in 1857 in Trieste. This seems like one of the important things I just wanted to remind myself of. But perhaps it is only so symptomatic that no one on the other side of the hall has been able to observe and comment on such irregularities, lapsuses, or whatever you call it. As mentioned, as far as health and education are concerned, I will include this in my explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Tanja Zink, get Mr. Uroš Prikl ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u114	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Commissioner, Candidates and Candidates for Ministers, Dear Fellows and Fellows! We have an important day ahead, that is, the beginning of work for the common good of Slovenia, citizens and citizens who have entrusted us with this task, or all of us. The global crisis we are in will require a tremendous amount of courage, commitment, perseverance and patience, especially integration, cooperation and patience, if we want to move things forward for the better and if we really want to bring people back to a better life, which we have committed ourselves to. I am sure that this was almost their only wish, because the situation in Slovenia, we know, is very bad for a large part of people, and unfortunately many times also unsustainable. The changes will certainly not take place overnight, and it will take time, but more important than that, our actions are dominated by reason and wisdom. It is necessary to step together and find new ways to create conditions for a decent life for people and for a successful developmental economic, social and cultural environment. We need to look forward and make people believe that we really care about them and the country. I am convinced that the proposed team of ministerial candidates and candidates is optimal. Among them are excellent and experienced experts, since they have recently proved this at the hearings of the past days, which they have successfully carried out. That is why I believe that we can count on the good and successful work of this government, so I will support it, and I want many successes for the government!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl has the floor, Mr Jožef Horvat is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u116	Dear President, Honourable Commissioner, fellow Members and colleague of Parliament, a warm welcome from my side as well! I'm sure it's a special day, a special day. Today we confirm the 12th government in the Republic of Slovenia, the independent Republic of Slovenia. Dear Prime Minister of the Government, Minister and Ministers, I'm sure you won't have an easy task ahead of you. Recently, there have been many problems for these or those reasons. I greatly appreciate your courage and willingness to face the not too pink situation and pull the cart out of the deep mud and drag it up, up and up. In recent days, I have attended numerous presentations by candidates and candidates for ministers or ministers, and in one way or another I have come to know their views, vision and the measures they intend to take in the coming weeks and months. Everything I say or hear gives me a great deal of optimism. I believe or believe that the composition of the ministerial team is good, excellent; therefore, I am sure that we will succeed – all of us, the government, Members, who will help you to do so sincerely. I can certainly say this to myself personally and to the Desus Group of Members. Above all, it will and must succeed all citizens and citizens of Slovenia to finally live a better and better tomorrow. I see the basis for this in the above mentioned, including in the commitments made under the coalition agreement or coalition agreement, which will be a platform for all our words and for all our actions over the next four years. The coalition agreement, which we have jointly drawn up with a view to providing assistance to the weakest or most vulnerable grey groups; providing such an economic environment that will enable new jobs and raising gross social product; launching infrastructure projects or investments in this area; rehabilitating and revitalizing the banking sector; improving the efficiency of the economy in international criteria; efficient and friendly public administrations to the extent of people; consolidating public finances; efforts to provide as much self-sustainment as possible or self-sustainment in the field of food production; ensuring the environment; establishing local self-government in the proper sense of this word; strengthening intergenerational dialogue; maintaining public health; maintaining public education; eliminating all possible administrative and other obstacles; and could also mention. In doing so, however, it is necessary to explicitly point out, or in particular, the return of the ethical and moral values of each individual and society as a whole, as this is only a prerequisite for pleasant coexistence. That too is and must be our quality task. Dear Mr. President of the Government, distinguished Minister, distinguished ministers! Taking into account the road map, although it will not be possible for a while, you have my and Desus' sincere assistance and support in your work; in any case, I want much success in the well-being of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to prepare Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u118	Hall of Fame, Mr. Vice President. Dear Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, dear colleagues and colleagues! Dr. Cerar, I'd like to begin by saying that I would like to acknowledge your perseverance. You've been here for six hours, and it's gonna take some time. And I'm also glad you started using your conductor stick. You silenced your candidate for the Minister of Infrastructure and made it clear to him that he should play a little quieter or play. Infrastructure facilities and projects are of paramount importance, so we need to give them more attention than the candidate indicated. If we don't have money at home, we have to get it from the outside. Let me just remind you, at the time when Nova Slovenije was in the coalition, in the 2004-2008 mandate, we have seen what it means that Pomurje was not connected to the highway with central Slovenia. At that time, only the gloomy economy calculated that, because we do not have a highway connection, the fallout of the gloomy economy was about 2 billion of the tolars at the time. And we built a highway five years before it was planned to build a highway cross. Five years ago. I hope the candidate for the Infrastructure Minister listens to us. By the way, colleagues and colleagues, I think we need to stand by to change the Rules of Procedure. We're talking here today, as they say at home, in a luft. Maybe the candidates are listening to us, but I think we should be present at the hall. Communication from eye to eye is only more authentic, it's real human communication. And if they can't sit here in ministerial chairs, the candidates should sit at the gallery. That's just my suggestion. I am also glad that something about the economy has thought us well today. There are many of us who pay great attention to the economy. I am pleased and grateful to discuss this with my colleague Magi. Claudius Markež of SMC, who said that the most important three are: that we have competitive people, that we have educated people and that we have competent people. It highlighted the importance of small and medium-sized enterprises. Of course, I do it all over again and again. Because it is the backbone of all healthy economies in Europe and in the world, small and medium-sized enterprises, family enterprises in particular. It is said that there is something that we will probably be dictated in this area as parliamentarians for the measures that the government will have to prepare. In fact, I'm gonna be a little harsh here, I don't want to hear any more Slovenian policy looking at the employer, just as a capitalist in a negative sense, torturing and shrapneling poor people and sitting on a pile of money. I don't want to hear this anymore, because I'm going to be asking this very loudly from this place 90. Colleagues and colleagues, we all know, man has a memory of not repeating in the present his mistakes and the mistakes of others he has made in the past. That is why I expect more from this government, future governments. I want to, and I demand, but now I'm not going to take priority, but I'm just going to count some facts. However, I demand that the Water Act finally be implemented, which, of course, also requires budgetary items. Mrs Alenka Bratušek practically collected all the money from the budget lines for maintenance of Slovenian watercourses, climate change is a constant and people are drowning in us today, so he sunk the crops of the pomurs and the sprites of some farmers and rotted in the fields. This slightly more expensive rain is not a natural disaster. It's a human disaster because we don't know, as the ancient Romans used to take water, given that water flows where it has lower potential energy. I demand that the last euro reserved for Slovenia be drawn up and is waiting for Slovenia in European funds; this is from a multi-annual financial framework that has already passed. And also from the one that started nine months ago. And we haven't woken up yet. I demand that the management of state property be based on the principle of a good master and with a sense of man, for people who are employed in state-owned enterprises. The country brutally threw workers working in Nafti Petrochem on the road. There are 111 of them, and 44 are still threatened by this same fate and catastrophe: no one is moved. Nobody moves. I demand that legislation on coherent regional development be consistently implemented. Slovenia is not only Ljubljana, Slovenia is not only the Ljubljana Cauldron, there are other peripheral regions. I demand that there will never again be such calls for projects in municipalities that mayors with their roles should run at midnight to gas stations. It's a stone age. I demand and expect the Minister of Health to learn what hospice is. I was pleased with Dr. Dusan Marble's performance. If he does what he says, then I can say he's a conservative as a financier, and he's a liberal as far as privatisation is concerned. New Slovenia as an opposition party and I personally am not the one criticising the stock. Today is the day for us to reach out to the new government and want to – Happy, 12th Government of the Republic of Slovenia! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec has the floor. Let Mr. Ivan Škodnik prepare.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable President of the Government, dear colleague and colleague! I am pleased that we will be given a government today, given that we have had a serious political crisis, including a debate on when parliamentary elections should be. I am convinced that it would be right for us to have elections before our annual leave and that today we will actually get a government with full powers and, of course, full responsibility. It is also a good situation that European elections have been held at this time and that the European Commission is also being formed. So we can say that this political crisis will not actually have any serious negative effects, because tomorrow the government will be able to start a serious job with full powers. This is very important because we know what situation we are in; but I can also see that the current circumstances are quite fateful. We see that we have 2.9% of economic growth, that unemployment is declining, but we must not be satisfied with these benefits because we still have a very difficult job ahead of us. The first thing that will happen will be a budget rebalancing. We know that income is not what we would like to see as a problem, how to provide money for the welfare state. But I have to say, I'm not in favour of unloading those who already have so much. We are constantly putting pressure on the little man, the crisis has hit the little man the most; here, in particular, I am thinking about the pensioners, the young people who are finishing their studies, as well as the workers. It's nice to talk about it, let's relieve capitalists, capital owners. We did this in 1998, if you remember, during Dr. Drnovšek's government, we reduced the contribution rate for the pension fund by half. And since then, we have had a constant problem in providing funds for pension payments. And I wonder where that money went? Why did we burden the economy, capitalists, capital owners, and where did this money go? Obviously not to be better at having a successful economy. But we do have a lot of stories like Zvon, Zvon 1, Zvon 2, where millions and millions of euros have been blowing up that we are paying for today. We have heard that debt will increase from 72% of GDP to 80%. But look, it was just this year that we gave a few billion euros for the rehabilitation of banks, for those banks that gave good-looking loans – and for successful managers who control everything and who know everything, and then they let the workers down, with low wages, or even for months at all. Unfortunately, if Mr. Joseph Horvath is not here, he will hear those words from my mouth. But it is nice to unload and create good business conditions for those owners, for those capitalists, if I may say so, who also pay their workers fairly. Such a hat down; or the Kathanite says, a hat down. And that's what we're gonna do. But we can't just walk away. And that is why I think that one of the main tasks of this government will also be to identify and find those responsible for the bank hole. I think we need to clear these things up. It is necessary with names out, as it is known who were in the banks, who were on the supervisory boards, who led the Bank of Slovenia at the time. How is it that an entrepreneur could have received a loan in a nice way, let's just say it didn't happen to me. When I was restoring something at home, I had to make a mortgage, two witnesses, an administrative ban on my salary and so on. These are actually things that we need to look at, why this was happening, and someone will have to answer for it. As for the party Desus, because I hear from some people that we're an unreliable party, unstable that we're always with one leg out of the coalition. President of the Government, I assure you that we will be a strong member of this coalition, but we expect that what we have signed in the coalition treaty will be respected. If we are partners, what is written is usually respected. And if this is respected, we will be the strongest member of this government. So to those of the opposition who fear for Desus, when he will leave the coalition, I can say, no panic. Our demands weren't, either, I don't know. If €40 million of extra money is the biggest problem for this country's regression, then I wonder how it is not a problem when some €100 million needs to be given for bank rehabilitation. Then there's no problem. And usually, every time the Minister of Finance takes a shine to his eyes when he can get in charge of rehabilitating the banks. So I say, let's also think about the small people who have suffered this crisis the most. That $40 million won't be left in socks, it'll go straight to consumption. It is important to be aware that we can talk about saving and shrinking the public sector, but I think there are many gaps on these belts that could be reduced. I think we need to speed up some rational spending, open up for foreign investment. And today, at the first government meeting, we also need to actually talk to the Minister of Infrastructure. I think it is crucial that we start these projects; the capital is enough, the investors are enough, it is only necessary to be open to this, brave. I think we can slowly get Slovenia out of this crisis. But if we're gonna deal with ourselves, if we're gonna compete, who's gonna play somebody, then I think we're gonna stay where we are. The Desus Party wants to be a constructive partner and we will also support all the good solutions that mean a better life for people.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor. Get Mrs. Eva Irgle ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, colleagues and fellow Members! The proposed ministers received a green light on various committees these days. It is time for us to confirm today the government that is supposed to begin our work as soon as possible to do something good for Slovenia together. I come from Koroška, which is located at the edge of Slovenia, which has a number of things open from the past. One of these is definitely the 3rd development axis. Koros really want these road connections – as soon as possible. I myself expect the new government to make concrete moves in this direction. The other thing is forestry. The forest-forest chain needs to live, and that's the only way we can get new jobs. Possible products are wooden houses, a whole bunch of other wood products or wood products. Special decrees could or should ensure that wooden windows are installed in all public buildings in the country. Why wooden windows? We know we're working a lot with plastic windows now. Because wood has so many good qualities that we don't all know how much. One very important thing is to store CO2, but this one may be another one of those smaller ones. Finally, let me say that I view the new government or ministers with optimism and I will gladly give them my voice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Jean-Mahnič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u124	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government. Recently you said the following, quote: "The main is ethical and moral reform of society." And then somehow continued in this style to make this the essence of solving the crisis, is called consolidation of public finances and the acceleration of the economy. Of course, the power with all that you have said is to agree, but, unfortunately, your words are something quite different, such as the actions of you and your future government. At the beginning, when you started building your political career and actually got the elections, you said you would set higher ethical and political standards. However, I regret to tell you that you failed your exam on this before you even had the government of the Republic of Slovenia. I'll base that on the next one. First, by selecting some ministers with whom you really didn't have a good hand or happy hands. First of all, Minister of Justice, Mr. Klemenčič. It is characterised by the fact that it has very double criteria, even when it comes to interpreting Article 13 of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. On the one hand, we have the case of Janez Janša, on the other hand, the case of Alenka Bratušek. Then Mr Klemenčič has problems – and you will probably be able to have them continue because of this – with the property situation. He gave us some documents when the Mandate-Election Commission controlled his assets, not everything. The next thing is problematic about Mr Klemenčič and his integrity. It is a silent support for the employment of Mr Roc Praprotenik in the New Ljubljana Bank. It has been proven to be systemic corruption. For when Mr Rok Praprotnik, Deputy Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, agreed to work in the NLB, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption - or at least - should review the documents relating to the bank hole. In short, these are important problems and the Court of Auditors has issued a negative opinion by the Commission on the prevention of corruption, which is expected to be violated more than 14 times. And no wonder your colleague Dr. Bojan Dobovšek said that when you see this team, you will understand. Although it was clear to us before, all the other Slovenians will continue to do so. Another issue that is also a problem precisely because of integrity and these higher ethical standards is that you legitimately wrongly did or abused the position of Mrs Alenka Bratušek yesterday. You are the only one – and it is right for the Slovenians to know – who have scissors and canvas in your hands and can actually prevent this candidacy. But you decided not to do it. In the United Left, it was said earlier that this was your way of pleasing the boss of Brussels or the boss of Brussels, and I say that you have favored the boss of Slovenia in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Jean Mahnič has the floor. Get Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u126	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President; dear Mr Cerar, colleague and colleague! First of all, I thank you for the report, the partial report of Umarje, which you presented at the beginning of your speech. Then thank you for the program, which you have somehow outlined. I agree, Slovenia is not an island, but I see two islands here on this government team. One island is called a restrictive fiscal policy; you and Dr. Marble are on this island. The second island is called an expansion fiscal policy and there are all other ministers on this island. Maybe two of them are swimming somewhere in between, but the current's taking them there, at least what I heard in the hearings. You've already confessed to the military, to the fire department, to the rescue workers in the wake of the recent floods. I hope that from the words that we have heard from the candidate for Minister and even in the coalition contract, you will move to action and that, indeed, to those firefighters, rescuers and others who are trying to do their best to benefit people, you will not be taking financial resources, as the previous government has done. You also said that there would be a great deal of inter-resort coordination. I wonder why there hasn't been this coordination so far. I asked each of the candidates for the minister, at which hearing I was at, whether he had previously spoken to the candidate for the finance minister, that he could at least talk about a real programme if he had already talked about these financial matters. I'm afraid no one has. It's too bad you didn't get together with the team before, so we could have a little bit of a chat, because we saw one of the candidates say something, and now you're correcting his words. It's obvious that there's really been a communication noise, or a technical error, or something else. You also said that there was no more time for political games. I agree, but right now the biggest political game we are going to in this Slovenia and which part of you are also a candidate for Commissioner. I don't know what happened, but since your firm opposition to her appointment, we saw you on the board yesterday, you gave in completely. You've all been talking about how you're up against it. If they were, they would have adopted yesterday a decision by the European Union Affairs Committee to withdraw the list of these candidates or, in particular, the current candidate chosen; unfortunately, you did not do so. I listened very carefully when I was at the hearing of the minister, the education candidate, regretting only higher education, secondary education, basic schools, nothing. I liked her statement that she was going to try to follow the politics of former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, so I hope that other ministers will follow, at least in some segments, the politics of Margaret Thatcher. There's been a lot of talk here about the young and the elderly, and I'm glad Desus was able to provide these 40 million for the elderly. Only in numbers, 53 million would cost a paid internship for 18,000 young people every year who finish school so they can go. Please, please, really think about these matters, because this is a measure in which we can unite. And another thing that we underestimate too much, and there is really no left, there is no right, because it's a security issue. This is mainly the case with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Defence and Home Affairs. I'm talking about the Islamic State. It's a big problem. It's going to be a big problem. Slovenia is a corridor where Islamic extremists move from north to south, intelligence services perceive this. Sorry we don't know that because we don't have a commission. Here I would really warn you, Dr Cerar, to pay attention to this subject, because it can pose a great problem for the Slovenes, for Europe, for the wider global world. Good luck to the ministerial team and thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the word to prepare Mrs. Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u128	Mr Vice President, Mr President of the Government, colleagues, colleagues! I would touch the field of foreign policy. I also had the opportunity to listen to the minister's candidate on this committee. The future government predicts that it will continue to delegate its powers to the bodies of the European Union, a real transfer of Slovenia's powers to the European Union body. In my opinion, this direction is wrong. Why? First, under Article 124 of the Slovenian Constitution, this policy of peace and non-violence should be a strategy of international policy. European foreign policy is not based on a policy of peace and non-violence, but rather on the pursuit of the imperialist interests of the United States and the most powerful European countries. Second point, economic diplomacy. The coalition agreement is full of emphasis on the importance of economic diplomacy. What does this economic diplomacy mean? In fact, at the moment, it means subjugating the economic interests of countries which are not equal to the interests of the Slovenian economy. In some ways, economic diplomacy was highlighted by the candidate for minister as a protection of Slovenian interests. I wonder if there are first-class and second-rate interests? Comrade Tomić mentioned the secret negotiations earlier. Comrade Tomić mentioned the secret negotiations earlier. Comrade Trček mentioned an article in the Constitution which stipulates that the public should be informed of these negotiations. Whose interests are now at stake here? Interests of the European Union, the USA or Slovenia? As the second point of the future government team, the credibility or return of the credibility of the Slovenian foreign policy is highlighted. I am here wondering how Slovenian foreign policy will restore this credibility if it is itself incredible on domestic soil and very inappropriate. I've got two more cases here. Slovenia submits or assists or joins European economic sanctions against the Russian Federation and indirectly supports the Kiev government's war against its own population in Donetsk, Lugansk. And it's scandalous that these sanctions are getting worse now. Last Friday an additional package of measures was adopted against the Russian Federation, while peace processes are running and pointing to some good results, including ceasefire. The next item is perhaps the worst, this is that Slovenian foreign policy systematically supports this shameful conspiracy to silence things that are happening in Palestine. On the one hand, in some way we sanction or take measures against Crimea because we advocate some territorial integrity of a given territory; on the other hand, in the case of Gaza, which is also an area under occupation, such, at least in principle or symbolically, Slovenian foreign policy does not hope or refuse to go. Let me mention that we have adopted this economic ban on imports from Crimea. On the other hand, we do well to export military equipment to Israel. The government and the candidate for a minister or, in fact, a minister of defence in previous governments, as well as an external minister, are now making it necessary to design a new strategy for Slovenian foreign policy, especially because this strategy has been achieved, they say. Thus, we have met all the objectives we had with regard to foreign policy, and now it is time to set ourselves a new goal. I say, okay. What is this new goal? Let's stop what all previous governments have done, not just the previous three; but let's put in place a new strategy that will be based on defending the interests of the state, which means, above all, the interests of citizens and citizens. This also means that we will no longer give the dictatorships of the imperialist agenda of NATO and the US at the helm and the major members of the European Union. The aim of Slovenian and European foreign policy in particular should be to address these crises, which I mentioned earlier, is to deal with military crises. What we are doing here and what the next government intends to do is actually stabilising crises. It's one step back from what's supposed to be a rescue. The future government, either with or perhaps because of the Minister's candidate, does not promise changes in this area. For this reason, there is a clear reason why we cannot support these packages of ministers and government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mrs Nada Brinovšek has the floor to prepare Mr Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u130	Thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! I must say that this presentation of the candidates we listened to was a great surprise to me, but not in a good way, in a bad sense. If I compare these hearings with the presentation of our candidates who run in the local community for directors of public institutions, I must say that they are presented professionally. They shall present their programme, vision, measures and, of course, financial structure, which shall be consistent with the municipal budget. Unfortunately, this presentation, I've been to five hearings, I haven't experienced it. I was expecting reforms. But the candidate for Minister of Health said that the health system in Slovenia is good. A survey was conducted last week and 82% of respondents said they were not satisfied with this health system. But I'd like to point out that she's a good professional. Our profession extends to Europe itself, if not to the world market. Since I am only coming from local self-government, I have been asking all ministers questions in this area in particular. I also asked the Minister of Health how to update the public network at the primary level, which is early cancer. For example, at the primary level in Mozir, we have been looking for a general doctor for four years, which we have not been able to obtain on the basis of the concession and, on the other hand, at the Employment Institute of over 100 doctors. She also did not answer my question if any changes were to be made in the field of pharmacy activity. The Coalition Treaty provides for an amendment to the Law on the Financing of Communities. On the Finance Committee, I asked the Minister if he knew what changes were envisaged in this area, and if he knew anything, if there were any local communities, the real municipalities would receive 6% of the eligible expenditure from the state budget for local investment. Nor did the Minister of the Interior answer me; she said that the basic task of police officers is the security of citizens. I agree with that very much, but if I make an example of 18 police officers covering 512 square kilometres and 16,000 people in the Upper Savini Valley. I hope that when it comes to thinking about how the network of establishing or spreading, maintaining or shutting down police stations will not come up with the idea of uniting or reducing anything here. Unfortunately, the Minister of Public Administration was also full of mouths, which stressed the responsibility of senior officials. But, dear colleagues, all these standards and standards for the responsibility of senior officials are already prescribed, but it is not the political will that these standards or responsibilities of public servants, in particular those responsible, should be identified. However, I have also not received an answer as to the changes envisaged in the coalition agreement on the merger of municipalities, the establishment of common municipal authorities and, as I said before, no matter what Law on the financing of municipalities. Otherwise, I want a ministerial team, even though it's not here, it's all good at her job! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor. Let's get Mr. Tillen Christmas ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u132	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Honourable President of the Government and distinguished colleagues and fellow Members! Yesterday, some stakeholders' and interested public concerns about Dr Gasperšič's candidate arose in the media because of a statement before the committee that the second track of Divac-Koper, as it was intended, will not take many years. You know, the second course of Divaca-Koper has had a very long beard, the idea has been going on somewhere since 2001. The project was first estimated at €400 million, then it was said that it could be built for €700 million, and I will say that the final financial structure in this project is not even given. It is clear that the previous governments have promised this project impossible and have put the final implementation of the project into the future by asking whether the project is as it was conceived years ago, says everything from 2001 onwards, even in line with modern trends, the needs of the economy and the capabilities of the country. Dr. Gasperšič did not underestimate in any part of his statement the importance of good transport links for the development of Luka Koper. On the contrary, actually. He himself stressed that this link was important for the development of Luka Koper, and he was critical to the fact that it was necessary for her to carry out the project of the drawn track because you were the second track of Divac-Koper, as he had intended, we could not afford it in the near future. We must be aware of this, it is also clear that the candidate for Minister Gasperšič, who did not sow flowers on the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, has been critical of thinking that Slovenia is in a difficult financial situation, which is why it has to focus on infrastructure projects that will provide some kind of return in the short term. So to projects that will begin to return money to the country as soon as possible after completion or as soon as possible. Therefore, only issues of funding for this project are open, as was the case at the time of the previous governments when Slovenia was in a significantly better situation, but the project was still moving from one financial perspective to another. And the question of whether the project is in line with the demand on the market in Slovenia and the offer on the corridors through Italy and Austria. However, with regard to Dr Gasperšič's defense, I would like to emphasise something else, which also applies to other projects, including the third development axis project mentioned in the coalition contract. The candidate for a minister has repeatedly stressed the importance of public-private partnerships in building infrastructure. I am sure that this, including a private interest, will be shown, that all projects can be implemented in the near future. If I conclude, I am sure that today we are deciding on good and suitable candidates for ministers, I am convinced by their professional or political experience so far. We must be aware that the minister's role is largely political. I was also convinced by their vision of the future of ministries and their work and their announced priority actions. So today we are discussing candidates, not whether they have done anything as ministers. I am sure that we have a good team, and I wish them a successful business or ministerial career! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Tillen Christmas has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Margareta Guček Zakošek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u134	Dear President, President of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I will focus on an area that is closest to me after my basic profession and even after my recent appointment to the competent working bodies. The area, which, in view of the current situation in which Slovenia and many other countries are located, is rightly considered to be one of the most demanding – the area of public finances. Within the framework of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, I have had the opportunity to listen with analytical data to a well-supported presentation by Dr Dušan Marble, a candidate for a finance minister who, in my opinion, presented the situation as – difficult. The applicant’s informed knowledge that it is not good to make decisions or to speak up, but, after thorough analysis and consultation, which, despite always tight deadlines and pressures, are a prerequisite for making appropriate decisions on the basis of the situation in question, will undoubtedly help him to continue his work. The structure of the Ministry of Finance is well known to the candidate and this will undoubtedly shorten and simplify the takeover of business. Given the difficult financial situation of the Republic of Slovenia – the debt this year, as already mentioned, is expected to exceed 80% of GDP – it will not be overtaken by the current involvement in international space or by the professional reputation achieved. It follows from the successful advocacy before the mother's working body that he will approach the work professionally and without ideological or, if you wish, political economic prejudices, and at any given moment he will use that economic instrument or reception that is necessary to escape this difficult situation. At times, public finance policy has stood on two legs — fiscal and monetary policy. We entrusted monetary instruments to the European Central Bank in Frankfurt a few years ago. So from now on, the skills that the finance minister must display — that is, he can only dance after one leg — are primarily thoughtfulness and tact so that he can maintain a fragile balance. As far as his hands are concerned, he depends in part on the unfavourable situation and, to a large extent, on his cooperation with the remaining ministerial team, which will have to act coherently. From what I've heard, I believe it will be so. I wish to see candidates and candidates for ministers or ministers successfully put up with today's vote; and on the way ahead, for the benefit of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, there is a great deal of tolerance, wisdom and focus on the key common goals! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Margareta Guček Zakošek. Let's get the mags ready. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u136	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In my debate, in support of this government, I would now like to focus on a few key words that have been standing in today's debate, as well as on the committees. These are optimism, courage, hope and trust, transparency, vision and responsibility. As today, the Committee on the Economy has also been optimistic in its debate on the excellent presentation of the candidate. Optimism from it and optimism between members of the committee, both the coalition and the opposition, which also gives me great optimism that a new political period has begun. For that area, it certainly proved to be a wise and necessary decision. It has been shown that this ministry is one of those who will be a key member in the functioning of the government and that the cost that was already so controversial yesterday can be reimbursed to Slovenia on numerous occasions. Slovenia can become anything; whatever we decide, it has been said, and it is true. But we need courage, we need a clear goal, we need a vision and, above all, a vision where we want to go as a community and a country. And the government has a vision. But it is true that it is finally necessary to place it in the system. The process of this new policy will require us all to think in general good, in the interests of the countries. And there will be changes. No change will be good for everyone — most changes are likely to be bad for the majority. But in some integral sense, these changes will ultimately be good for the state and the citizens. Today, colleagues and colleagues, it is not just this government today. Today it is the existence of this space, the state, the citizens, and I am convinced that each candidate, as well as the President of the Government, wants to work in this sense. And it's normal that candidates for ministers don't like everyone, because that's our human quality. However, the situation will show how responsible the government will really work. It is most difficult to judge yourself, even after past acts; but the easiest to judge others, even in the future. By doing so, when candidates sincerely want to serve the country, all stakeholders — perhaps not all of them, but most — will eventually realize that it is a positive, common effect for the country. And today it is no longer about whether this government has the right answers. He doesn't have any. But the important thing is whether he has the right questions. It is important that she be able to make the right move and serve in public good at the right time. And it is not true that the old policy will continue because there will be a change. A higher political culture will happen, and a change is that there is a responsible policy coming that assumes responsibility for the situation, even though it has not blamed it itself. All the beginnings are hard. At first there are many possible slips, we learn from slips. It is important, however, that this Government will have and assume responsibility for the entire coming mandate and beyond, and its responsible action will be far-reaching, I am sure, very sustainable. Let me conclude with a quote from the first book of Aristotle's Ethics, which is one of the beginnings of Western political thought and says, "The final observation of every action is certainly some good, the highest good." This view may be the same for the individual as for the community, but it will be possible to capture and preserve this view in the community more fully. It's not a small thing if the highest achievement is achieved by an individual. It is even more beautiful and bigger and grander if it is reached by an entire nation or even a country. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, citizens and citizens, let us take this common path today without personal interest and together support the government of Dr. Mir Cerar! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dusan Verbic, prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u138	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Dear Members and Members, distinguished President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, a very nice greeting to all! My contribution is not intended to justify the content of the coalition agreement on public administration but is intended to discuss it. In your performances, in particular at the hearings, you have focused some Members and Members on the work of the public administration. You've pointed out many times that it's not effective. You added the example that this type of work also deterred investors who were willing to invest in the Republic of Slovenia. Reasons: Non-licensing, mostly building permits pending four, six or more years. I would add to this public statements that there is very little work to be done in the public administration and that there is still too much work to do. All of this gives the whole public sector a very poor estimate. Is that true? Or we do not want to be objective and use only political rhetoric. The situation in our country in the field of the public sector is at least the same as that of the legislative branch of power, as every public official is aware of what the principle of legality means. That we have bad laws and regulations, is not the fault of a citizen, not of an official, but of an executive and legislative branch of authority. It is not true that the public sector is weak. But it is true that there is no good in a particular area, even bad, not optimal. However, at least Members, we must not generalise. I'm going to give you examples that we can even brag about. Issuance of personal documents, assistance in emergency natural disasters; cases of good practice in the police, military, education, care institutions and could also be listed. It is true that there are also cases in those areas that we cannot be satisfied with, and therefore it is the responsibility of the holder of authority, in particular the executive branch, to be aware of reality, to look at what and what areas are the ones in which it is necessary to enter with a different approach from the current one. Not to mention areas that have been considered different for many years. In particular: public procurement, IT support, management and accountability of public authorities, efficiency of work in areas, targeted management, competences and could also be listed. And what does that mean? The very presentation of the candidate for the Minister of Public Administration was presented on his part and the answers to the questions raised exactly what I highlighted. In response to the hearing itself, it was understood or concluded that this was not what individuals wanted. I ask, Your Honor, do you even want to change the processes of the public administration? Now that the government is formed, there are doubts and there are reasons not to. Maybe I'm wrong. I will not mention the words that ask questions about the suitability of candidates for ministers or ministers or the content itself. And I'm also trying to understand this through political rhetoric. However, I cannot understand the doubts and concerns about the introduction of targeted management as a tool for the effective functioning of the executive branch, system-wide IT support arrangements, public procurement, greater attention to the expertise of public servants, the introduction and implementation of transparent criteria, responsibility and efficiency of work, more responsible handling of the real property of the Republic of Slovenia. The word "ineffective" is often misused unjustifiably. This is an injustice for a large number of public servants who are working hard daily to carry out their mission to the satisfaction of users. We are not aware that the Office is required to apply the principle of legality already mentioned. Ladies and gentlemen, here we are in the role of legislative authority. It is rare or never for an official or civil society to vote in an appropriate place to make it impossible for an individual law or regulation of a particular area to work effectively. I am referring to the case – six years of waiting for a building permit. There are cases where he's holding it. The reasons are in the various permits, consents, spatial plans, in the irresponsibility of the holders of public powers. This means that we must not generalise, because in the Republic of Slovenia several thousand building permits are issued at the annual level – and important – in legal terms. Why the dissatisfaction of users, in this case investors? Simple – non-life regulation of the field and non-use of the management instruments that I have already mentioned and are examples of performance in the private sector. I believe it will not only be the Department of Public Administration. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. Get Mr. Luka Moon ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u140	Thank you very much. I did not intend to come forward today because I think that we have already said what is necessary in the introduction on behalf of the Group of Members. However, this debate today has shown on the one hand that some people are warming up to what it will look like in the future, and on the other hand space and time for some who are still sitting more or less at the same time and the same bubble of soap, because they can't actually get out of their skin and just criticize. But all I have to do is explain one thing, because my colleague Logar, who is no longer among us, is probably feeding somewhere below, missed my fellow Member and the President of the Government in his resignation that he is not here today. He was even afraid he wouldn't see the historical grip of his hands, and I don't know what else. Let me comfort him, the historic handshake of congratulations and broadcasts will be able to see on TV if he sees it, like everyone else. And this transfer will happen as it must in every normal democracy, with some respect and attitude of surrender of power. Or this will be what my fellow Member, Mr Logar, will want to see, and that is just his problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Luka Moon has the floor. Get Mr. Matjaž Han ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u142	I give up my word, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u143	Thank you. Matjaž Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u144	Thank you so much for saying that. I have one thing to say that I see today's debate as well-intentioned, and I have been following it all day. There were some praises, there were good intentions, there were some criticisms, which is normal. Now it is best to shut up and let the ministers swear as soon as possible and start working because today will pass, but the problems will remain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u145	Thank you very much. I'll give the word to Mr. Franco Jursha. Get Mr. Jože Tanko ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u146	I myself, Mr Vice-President, would like to end up in a manner similar to that of my colleague the Moon and Han. I'll be very brief. I won't repeat myself. Today, a lot of beautiful, praiseworthy words have been spoken in this hall, which is a good way for further work or for the start of the work of our new 12th government. There were also a few pipier words that came from the opposition, and some even used words against coalition parties that were actually inaccurate and distorting facts. But I would not particularly like to talk about these matters today; but I would like, Mr President of the Government, to draw your attention to one matter that may also be useful for you, for your government, for us, for citizens and citizens, and especially for the state of Slovenia. In recent years, I have somehow missed the encouraging words of the highest national representatives of citizens and citizens. Since this is not at the state level, the matter continues from the city to the village to the village. And everywhere anyone comes, they say very negative. It's not an incentive, it's not optimism, we have to change this. And you'll have a chance to do the same. This programme and, of course, the coalition contract, which is a kind of programme, are written down. I already said this in the introduction, on behalf of the Group of Members, that we are satisfied with this and I am confident that we will be willing to prove to those who have spoken today how bad a member of this coalition is the Desus Party. For some have taken the wrong words, but I will not return them with such words, for I felt that colleagues who had recently come to the National Assembly spoke with great respect. In some ways, this atmosphere in this Chamber was also more likely to be reconciled with the opposition’s side. So we must continue, we must have a country before us, we must have our people before us. Believe that if we do so, then this beneficial situation will once again occur in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Prepare the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u148	Thank you so much for saying that. I have before me an audit report from the Court of Auditors in point 3.7 – The Commission for the Prevention of Corruption wrote: "The Commission has violated eight laws, namely the Law on Labour Relations, the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System, the Law on Public Servants, the Law on Public Finance, the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011 and 2012, the Law on Public Procurement, the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, the Law on Real Property of the State, Landscapes and Communities." It also violated three regulations, namely the Regulation on the Advancement of Public Servants in Salary Classes, the Regulation on Administrative Operations, the Regulation on Real Estate of the State, Landscapes and Communities and a number of contracts. The chairman of this commission, who violated eight laws, three regulations and a series of contracts in 2011, was Goran Klemenčič, today proposed as Minister of Justice. Mr. Cerar, in the introduction, you were talking about childishness. You are proposing to the Minister a person who, following the Court of Auditors' finding, has violated eight laws, three regulations and a type of contract, is childish. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Prime Minister, Dr. Miroslav Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u150	Dear Mr President, the honourable assembly, Members and Members of Parliament! I don't feel like I've lost my voice, but I'm gonna get warmed up. I've been sitting here a long time, listening to you, and it looks like I need a little start. First of all, I would like to thank you very much for this, in large part a really constructive and calm debate, which has highlighted very important aspects, problems, issues, dilemmas, which certainly await the future government and also the National Assembly, all of you and us together. With our citizens, of course, we expect to take that step forward that we are all waiting for and we want it. I would first point out that the views of the groups of Members, including those representing parties who will not be part of the coalition, were largely constructive. For that part that was constructive, which brought some warnings, comments, opinions that are certainly well-intentioned, I thank you very much. I also thank the representative of both national communities, Italy and Hungary, who also made such interesting proposals on behalf of both. And, of course, thank you to the parties who will form a coalition government together with ours for all the opinions that have been presented here. Part of the opposition, perhaps a little bit more on this side, partly there, was kind in another sense. You've warned us that there's still sobriety, a lot of work, a breakup of the coalition, and so on. I certainly realize that despite, for example, the wickedness that lies in these words, much of this is true. We really have a hard job ahead of us, but I don't want any kind of break-up of the coalition, and I hope that, together with the coalition partners, I will do everything that this government will do to act homogeneous enough, action-single and convincingly and do what it has done. The words of the coalition partners also make me feel that way. And let me add that I personally believe that the team of ministers and ministers that I have proposed to the National Assembly for appointment is a quality, good team that, in my deep conviction, together is able to carry out the tasks that we have set ourselves. I would like to point out that it is very important that some of you have pointed out that the Government, as a whole and also as individual ministers, as well as I, as President of the Government, will have to be careful to cooperate with the National Assembly, to take into account your role, to realize that you are the legislative body, so that we are all working together to take account of the principle of the division of power; at the same time, we are closely involved in the communication, in the discussion, in the pre-clearing of the dilemma, because it is only then that we can ensure that the work in the National Assembly and also in the Government will be carried out in a qualitative manner. I will personally commit myself to keeping Members informed of all important matters. I hope that the flow of information and communication will also take place in the opposite direction. Quite a few thoughts were expressed by the opposition that this group of proposed ministers was still some kind of declared orchestra. I would say that it is not so widely proclaimed that some individuals are not yet fully reconciled with the whole because it is perfectly normal. It'd be insane if we were in complete harmony. This would even limit them to the assumption that they are overly subordinate. Because I don't want to have people on the team who don't think with their heads who are already in advance. I don't mind if one of the candidates for the minister may make a mistake in terms of taking a zealous stand for some professional position that he has developed as an expert for years and years as a man with experience. Of course, in these cases, which have taken place – above all, I have mentioned the candidate for the Minister of Infrastructure, as well as the short-term candidate for the Minister of Home Affairs – I have already held the appropriate talks, as you might say, that we have agreed. And now I can comfort you that there is no disagreement here. If I come back to this subject later, and I will, I will explain to you what that means. But I would point out that the government will act as a whole. I even think that the quality of this ministerial team is also in the fact that we have quite a few experts, too, I would say, in some cross-sections and will be able the club to have different resources, according to their professional salary, cooperated together on the same issues. We have more people who know about finance, about the economy, about agriculture, so not only will there be a departmental minister of expertise in an area, but there will be more, with all the professional support offered by the ministries, the government and others. So I think, if I succeed – and I will do my best – to conduct well, as some of you would say, then this government will be able to achieve its goals. If I focus briefly on what was said here first on behalf of the groups of Members. The United Left Group has pointed out that, in fact, we are not politically compatible with their views. That's what I was talking about when I first performed here as a candidate for Prime Minister. Of course, it's understandable. You come from a completely different basic concept of looking at politics than our party and our coalition, as well as some other parties. Since these matters are public knowledge, I think that this is something that does not need to be explained and specifically responded to. We all have a legitimate right to defend different concepts here. However, I believe that we will also be able to find a common language with you, the United Left, at some points – I hope that in as many as possible – and to support together those things that we will agree on. It was also said, however, that a colleague named Luke Mesec said that he saw some controversial ethical questions or events with me or the government. Of course, I do not agree here. ‘ For example, I do not believe that I have given up on this or that lobby, I do not know exactly what was meant. I think the joke lobby was mentioned. I haven't had any contact with any lobby, and I don't really know what I'd be letting go of anywhere to this or any lobby. Even when you mentioned TES 6, if I am not mistaken, you know that we have written in a coalition agreement that a review will be carried out here. And we know exactly what follows every audit. Things are going to be normal and I don't see anything unethical here. On the contrary, I see the coalition's commitment to clear up issues that are therefore crucial to the country. Then it is the question of proposing and the whole procedure for the selection of Commissioner or Commissioner Alenka Bratušek as a candidate for this city, as we discussed here in the National Assembly yesterday. Yesterday I attended a meeting of the Committee on European Affairs, and today I am again listening to some opinions that I do not agree with at all, which, of course, I reject again. If time allows me, I'll finally come back to this problem. However, I would like to devote time to other problems earlier, because yesterday I told the entire Slovenian public very clearly how this matter is about what I think about it and, above all, that it is no longer in the domain of the Republic of Slovenia and is being decided at the level of the European Parliament, the European institutions. I explained that we are no longer competent to decide this here and that any allegation of the contrary is pure manipulation. And I explained above all that this is no longer worthy, it is no longer in the interest of the State and is counterproductive for the credibility of the Republic of Slovenia, that we are putting this issue on such a controversial, quaerlative basis that we are suing each other abroad. I think that this is simply not meaningful and state-of-the-art and that we must stop this immediately. The advice that should be well - meaning — make sure that the street does not happen — did not sound good. But believe me, Members of the United Left, that we will strive to serve the people of this government. If ever there will be a street, if there will be demonstrations, sentences or anything, I hope that all of this will take place in some democratic context. As Prime Minister of the Government, I will endeavour not to do this by trying to engage in dialogue, negotiation, persuasion, dialogue, to prevent such matters, to cooperate with civil society, to trade with anyone that policy takes place more calmly and decisively; but calmly and not on the street. New Slovenia was also very constructive in its performance, according to my assessment. I liked that she warned us that the government should go between people and that she should take other government officials to see how in practice people are experiencing the consequences of their decisions. I'm going to take this advice. We already have a practice from the past when some governments have been on the ground more often, as we say, among people. I have pointed out this several times myself that it is good that this is something that is relatively easier to do in Slovenia than in some major countries. The people in Slovenia deserve to have politics come to them; I would also say from, I would say, the state level to listen to them. And in one way or another, I will try to do this; but not only in a formal sense, so for the form of showing up, painting, performing a session, then returning to Ljubljana and doing things the way they used to. But we will find ways to really listen and then try to do something in the right direction. Mr Jani Möderndorfer, representative of the Alliance's Group Alenka Bratušek, also performed constructively. He drew attention to two shortcomings, as he expressed it, or to lapsus, when a candidate for the Minister of the Interior stated that she would like the police to be exempted from the public sector. I think that there is no doubt, it is also in the minutes of this session itself, and it has also been summarised in the media, that it was clear that this was her vision in her personal name – she said — as something that she would stand for herself. However, she understood and stated that she knew that it was neither part of the coalition contract nor at this moment any reality, and that is why this must be taken. These intentions, which she has expressed in this way, I do not consider a mistake; but for some thought, which happens on many issues, on some ground. And I believe that there is no doubt here that the police, of course, remain part of the public sector, and that this is how the Minister and the Government will, of course, act in future to take them into account. With regard to infrastructure, of course, I would like to give two brief explanations. Indeed, the candidate for Minister Peter Gasperšič has in fact deviated slightly from what the coalition will advocate. This has been done, I think, in some personal good belief, especially in the sense of an expert, it has not become sufficiently involved in the role of political function and policy, which will now take place within the framework of the coalition and in the interest of those objectives which Slovenia and the Slovenian Government must pursue. When we had this conversation yesterday, I saw that there were some fundamental differences, but unfortunately, there was, as I would say, too much emphasis in the wrong direction. I assure you, both Members and Members present, as well as citizens and citizens, that infrastructure projects such as the second track and the third development axis remain priorities of these governments, but of course we must all be aware of each other, and this is where the Minister, the candidate for Minister, stressed that these projects are linked to enormous financial resources. If I just say this briefly, so the second track, as I said, remains a priority, and I will insist on it myself, but according to current estimates, this investment exceeds a billion euros. And despite our efforts to do so, we will make it a priority to approach the construction of the so-called extraction track from Luka Koper, which will be part of the future second track, and then we will look for these enormous means to hope that we will succeed in carrying out this second track project. As for the third development axis, we know that Koroška, White Krajina and some other parts of Slovenia, regions that are far from the highway network need much better transport connections. Believe that this government is aware of this; not least, we have seen many members of this government, the future government before entering politics or during the political campaign, that the problems are serious. I was at these ends myself and saw how badly this better road connection is needed in these parts of Slovenia. That is why I can say that, of course, we will endeavour to modernise existing road links and, on the other hand, new investments, including those in which the third development axis and some others mentioned, but also here, these decisions will have to be made on the basis of the transport infrastructure development strategy. There must be a strategy here and also funds for these major projects will have to be made more out of the budget, as there will be no other way. If I continue, the representatives of the Italian and Hungarian national communities in Slovenia have already had some discussions with me, including with some of the candidates for ministers. I have assured them, and ministers know this, that, because we must and want to, we will strive to ensure that the constitutional rights of both national communities are not only respected, but also in practice applied, in this regard respected. This means that we will need to upgrade some of the achievements so far, and in particular to regulate some things that have not yet been settled, from bilinguality to the adoption of the law that you have mentioned, and the more active roles of the Office for the National Community and so on. So, we are aware of these things, and they will certainly be the things that this government will handle. Mr Janez Janša also made some constructive observations on behalf of the SDS Group Ambassador. For example, he offered us a hand, as he himself said, in the enforcement of restrictive fiscal policy. The fact is, to a large extent, this policy will, at least in the initial period, have to be restrictive, of course with some sense of certain areas and people, as has been said. In short, there is no one here entirely, I would say, a one-way approach, but the fact is that it holds, as Mr Janša said, that it is, of course, a blessing and a curse, which, of course, awaits us all together. We all know the situation we are in, but as the candidate for Finance Minister Dusan Maramor points out, the situation is serious, but manageable and bridging. And it is true, as Mr Jurša said in the end, that more incentives must be given to citizens, even different than I am now, but citizens must know that this government, this coalition believes that we can come out of the crisis, we have a plan, we have a vision, we have the will. I don't think so, because at the same time we are really aware of the many obstacles, problems and of course the situation in which we are, but I think that we can all believe together that this is possible and we can do it now. Now, of course, I will not comment here on some of the concerns expressed by Mr Janša, because the thing is that the government has to show itself, regardless of the doubts expressed by the opposition, but the position has this task to be more critical. I would only say that the objectives, measures, guidelines and numbers are. Maybe the number is the least, though, don't be afraid, every time I meet a candidate for finance minister, they're in front of us. And every minister will deal with numbers, and I'm already in business, but we all need to know that, as I said before, when I was here as a candidate for the Prime Minister, numbers can also be a very empty promise. For example, Mr Šircel invited me in his debate to make more concrete statements, quite legitimately, I will say, it is nothing wrong, I think that these specific statements are necessary, for example, how the balance, how to reduce expenditure, timetables and so on. But, you know, the government, so our future government can't make any reliable predictions until it gets a full view of the financial situation. We have some insight, but it's not complete enough. For example, if I just say, for example, about the budget rebalancing, which is promising as possible, because the data was presented that we are approximately 95%, but we just have to wait for a new forecast of economic growth, such as an UMAR by the end of September to submit and examine the whole situation. So you will get these forecasts very soon, very numerically expressed, and many timetables will be submitted very soon to all Members and Members as well as to the public. From now on, of course, if a ministerial team is appointed today, the government will be very operational, very specific. But let me point out if I go back, that it is not true that this government does not actually have sufficient measures, objectives and the like. This government even listed nine concrete, from one to nine, descriptions, i.e. concrete inter-resortary projects in the coalition agreement. There are very difficult projects, but they are explicitly mentioned at the end, with many other measures, which I think we describe in detail 72 sides of the coalition agreement. So I would really like to conclude this discussion once and for all whether we have goals or measures. Of course we do, a long time ago. And that's why these criticisms that appear here and there, of course, are not justified in not being there. Now, of course, there are comments about individual ministers. Mag. Goran Klemenčič, Mrs Milojka Kolar, Vesna Györkös Žnidar, Peter Gasperšič and others. That's gonna be a lot. Some have comments on their implementation in the context of the hearings before the committees, others have comments on them from before, from some past stories. I'll make it very simple. It is not appropriate for me to answer these questions in more detail before the Slovenian public, because believe me, if I didn't believe in each of them, if I hadn't checked each of them to the best of my ability, I wouldn't have proposed them. I trust them, I believe them. And even when someone has such and different assumptions about these or those irregularities, we will clear that up in the coming days, I think you will all get answers to these questions that will calm you down to see that the government has a competent and indisputable team that can work. However, if, as it is said, something burdensome has emerged in the future, which we do not know at this moment, if it turns out that one of the ministers may not be able to carry out his tasks successfully enough, then we know that there are methods and procedures to regulate these matters. But as I say, I stand for my ministerial team right now, and I believe it, and I'm sure it will be able to perform its tasks, so I don't want to be involved in some kind of debate about suspicions, accusations or anything like that. Maybe it's about experience. It is true, experience, knowledge, skills for a minister are important, but it is true that the Minister is mainly a politician. It can and sometimes is highly desirable that he is also an expert in the field concerned. Sometimes it happens that someone who is an expert in an area is not the best minister because it can be extra burdensome because he has dealings with people who know him because he is in a collegiate or too close relationship with them because he may be dependent on his professional qualities or he specializes in a particular area in this segment and may be biased. On the other hand, someone can be an excellent politician, an organiser, a communicator, and someone who has a sense of coordination who lacks expertise. True, it is difficult to achieve this optimal combination. Believe me, in each of the candidates, I have checked in different ways whether any such combination exists, to what extent and how this will enable individual candidates to function successfully. I think I've decided on the best of conscience and conviction on every occasion. And like I said, I believe that everyone will be part of their mission. It was obvious that we were talking about connectivity, but at the same time we were not connected to talking about ethics, but we are not ethical and similar. For example, it has been said that we are talking about connectivity and then we are speaking against Mr Janez Janš's membership in the Commission of Security and Intelligence Services. As far as I know, the problem is somewhere else he wants to introduce himself. Members of the National Assembly, in particular I know of the Members of our Party, but I believe that others think similarly, those who have this problem understand that Mr Janez Janša is currently legally convicted of a serious crime and in such a case it is difficult to appoint a Member then to be appointed to such a sensitive committee for the supervision of security and intelligence services. And in fact, the one who makes this problem is not the one who resists it, but the one who proposes such a solution. I have to be very honest with you. The question then arises of the participation of two candidates, Mr Klemenčič and Mr Mumorr, at meetings of interested working bodies, which were convened at the time of the so-called hearings, i.e. the hearings of ministers. Here I must make it very clear that the references of these two Committee meetings, or as many as there have been, represent an abuse of the Rules of Procedure. The candidates for ministers have only one task at the time they run for these posts, namely to attend hearings before the competent committees. Members other than their members may participate or attend these competent committees. And that's all. In this, I would say, the preliminary procedure, which already has a constitutional basis and then a business development, is not the usual work of the National Assembly, which we know later when the government is in operation, when ministers are appointed, when they are also interested in the game's parent labour, there will certainly have to be ministers, the government, whoever, participating in these working bodies. So it was not some ignorance by our party's or other Members of Parliament, but I don't know what the reasons for the two candidates for the minister were, because, as I know, they both apologized for their absence. I don't know why, but certainly, if you asked me if you wanted to go to a meeting like this, I would advise them, because it would seem inappropriate, contrary to the arrangements we have. If I now touch on some of the other issues that have been raised in the debate of Members, for example, Mr Hanzko and all others who are interested or burdened, I can ensure that the government will carry out its duty in the field of equal opportunities in the field of hate speech, attitudes towards minorities, non-discrimination. These are constitutional categories, principles and rights to be respected. This will certainly give us all our attention. You said it was an ideological topic. Yes, I have never said, and I will not, that we will not also deal with ideological topics in the National Assembly, because that is impossible, because in politics the themes are always so ideological. Property issues, social issues and so on are ideological. The point is that I want to avoid becoming entangled in the ideological issues that are counterproductive for this time and space, which cause some pain, but do not serve anything, that is, no development, no new employment, no economic development, no regulation of public finances, no social security, but only some increase in mutual tension in society and such a senseless one. So I would like to avoid any inappropriate ideological issues as much as possible, and I also appeal to you, Members of Parliament and Members, to take this seriously and to try to follow this line, so that we are dealing with what is important for this society here and now and for future generations, to enable some sustainable development, some decent social state and everything else that we are all talking about. It was mentioned in the Law on the Seizure of Unlawful Assets and the fact that it has not actually begun to be fully realized in practice, even though it was adopted some time ago. We have written in the coalition contract that this is one of the tasks of this government and of the coalition. And I will personally undertake that the competent ministers and all those with them in this area will be in charge of this activity. I think it is right that these cases, i.e. the identification of the origins of illegally acquired property, should be accelerated to identify where this occurred and to identify the persons who did so and to implement appropriate sanctions. I also recorded the term "mačehov's attitude towards the regions". I've mentioned infrastructure problems before. We will be doing this with confidence, but I would say that I myself, as a citizen, have often noticed and I also notice that governments in many ways have had a bit of a macho attitude towards the peripheral parts of Slovenia. I will do my best, and I also believe that the whole government is with me, that this matter is being corrected, so that we can listen to people to a greater extent. Not only citizens, as has been said, of entrepreneurs, mayors and all those who know the most in practice, what are the problems, where are the problems and how to sometimes, as many times as they say, resolve them with just some good communication. We all know that a lot of problems can be solved with minimal financial inputs and good arrangements, and above all by removing administrative obstacles. Above all, I will also try to make it real and finally once again that things are really moving here, because we have been talking in this abolition of administrative barriers for years and years, and the result is that things are standing, there are no movements, and that is why there are no foreign investors, which is why, of course, there is no investment in strategic investments, infrastructure and all that we want. There have been a lot of criticisms or, I would say, comments that I think are of such a rank that I will not respond to them. I'd like to say something again. I have already said here before you, that is, of course, our government, our party, Members, and I hope that the coalition will be fully, so that in the final stage we will all be here to strive for a more ethical policy and also for society. Because the fact is that we Slovenians failed the ethical exam, that's a fact. But it is not right, nor is it sincere or manipulative to attribute to me and this government some excessively high flying ethical standards that are supposed to be set before you. I'm advocating ethical engagement. Each of you, from us and from the citizens, somehow knows where to make any progress in the field of morality, ethics. I don't expect and it's not right that you keep trying to impose on me by talking about some ideals that we're going to fulfill. Society's not ideal, I know that. We have a tough trial ahead of us, but progress and a breakthrough in this direction must be made. This is why we are talking mainly about legal and political culture, about raising this culture, not about ideal culture, not about it, not about other European and global countries. But we can certainly be better. But we can do better. And that's all we're talking about is trying to make us better. And that is why I would like to stress that I do not want to be moved again and again as an ideal, because I am not, but I will try to make these things move. And that's it. In fact, I am now returning to that observation regarding the proposed Commissioner, Mrs Alenka Bratušek. I will only briefly repeat a few facts, just because, in fact, today's debate has repeated quite a few observations, some arguments that are not true. And let me just talk about this for a second. My longer address was recorded yesterday on the European Affairs Committee. So immediately after the elections, of course, there was a situation where the Commissioner had to be proposed by Slovenia to Mr Juncker. This was at a time when I was also elected as Prime Minister, but I did not have, and today, this moment, I do not have any formal authority to influence this process in any way. I don't. That is why today, this moment, by evening, I hope, if a new government is elected, the competent government of Mrs Alenka Bratušek. And that is why it is totally unrealistic to say that Cerar, as Prime Minister of the Government, could do anything formal here. If I tried anything, I'd be breaking the law, which I can't and I don't want. Of course, it was under the authority of the Government to appoint candidates or candidates. Our client and I felt it was right not to go into this procedure, but to express our views. And we told him. Why? Because if we succeed today in appointing ministers, which I believe, we will now run the government in the next term and we will have the most intense communication with a representative from Slovenia, who will be a member of the European Commission. Of course, we all know that he is a representative, i.e. Commissioner, someone who works for the European Union and not for Slovenia. At the same time, however, we all know that it is not irrelevant what the position and the portfolio of such a Commissioner has, and that it is not irrelevant what communication leads to the country of origin with its commitment to the principle and functioning of the European Union. We therefore proposed to our candidate, informally proposed, to tell who we would like to be, but the government did not take that into account. The government has tabled a formal proposal, submitted it to Mr Juncker, on which the three candidates were without our candidate. Then the procedure went forward with all the complications, but the fact is that today the situation is such, not me not many are not satisfied with who is now an official candidate, because we had our preferences and at some point I even, again speaking informally, because I had no authority, defended the position to give priority to coalition candidates, Mr Erjavac and Mrs Fajon. Because at the time, we had already agreed on a coalition, and I thought it was appropriate. But look, now that's the case, things have come to European level. There is no reason for us here right now that we can and should intervene, but the competence of Ms Alenka Bratušek's candidate will now be demonstrated in the European Parliament, where she will be exposed to a very thorough hearing, and this is now within the European Parliament's competence. Let our Members from Slovenia do their duty in the European Parliament, not to write some letters and actually deal with Slovenian matters, but to express their position there through their parties, through committees and so on. This is their task and jurisdiction. For Slovenia, however, it is crucial that we are state-of-the-art and that, in the interests of the State, we stop, as I said, these accusations and manipulations and agree to the fact. At the same time, we must be aware that Mrs Alenka Bratusek has been dedicated to the position of Vice-President, is dedicated to this position, an extremely high position in the European Union and a very important energy sector, which is in the interest of our country's objective interest. I think that this is a fact that we must take into account and behave accordingly. So I hope this story is over now. Of course, to conclude, if they do occur at the level of the European Union, in Parliament or anywhere, in hearings or, for example, in Slovenia, in any material new circumstances, the Government and perhaps any other body will have to deal with this immediately. But as long as there are no such circumstances, I think we have to accept the fact that I described it. Finally, let me say that I thank you once again very much for your debate, which has been very constructive to a large extent. As I say, I believe in the ministerial team and I suggest you support it. But, of course, I am committed to directing and guiding it to the best of our power and conscience for the benefit of Slovenia and its citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u151	All the advertised debaters you wanted got your word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? Yeah. If he would also like to discuss the President of the Government, Dr Miro Cerar, as a candidate for the list of candidates and candidates for ministers and ministers, please apply with a raise of hands. I'm opening the application. Each debater has five minutes of time available. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u152	Thank you for your word. I wanted to say something, but I've been stabbed by some statements, and I'm going to say to my colleague, Mira Cerar, that we're colleagues in a three-part division of power. What stabbed me? I was stabbed by two people; first it stabbed me, you know, my maiden name on the facebook is Disgusting. I was stabbed by the indecisive blending of Prime Minister Peter Gaspersic. And I have to get in his way. I also got stabbed because of this, I don't know what it's like for the other Members, it's a little insult to my personal intellect. I was sitting on that committee, Mr. is an expert, he came from construction, he's been on the bureaucratic career path for ten years, which I think is fine. And I congratulate you on that choice. Why? Since we should be doing this in Slovenia and you haven't been doing this in a quarter of a century – good candidates, experts, even raising, or if you've already raised one, you've been thinking with your head, you've been "crashing it". In short, Mr Peter Gasperšič said what he was told must be said here, my colleague, agrees. [[…]] We've already established a coalition called Healthy Farmer's Brain. We fellows from the countryside who know how to use infrastructure Not now poor gentleman tuna and then, when he had to explain something, of course, he got confused. [[…]] The more I was stabbed by some other difference, Comrade Mira, you said, "I had no contact with any lobby." Huuh, I've already written on the Internet, and that's what I'm very afraid of, please. Lobbying is an integral part of the political process governed by legislation, as the editor of one low-level editor wrote, "not all lobbying is bad" – a retirement lobby with a pension of less than 500 euros, and lobbying of young people who want to go to doctorate, but not from wealthy families, the Belokran lobby after all, and so on. And then I ask myself, yes, hell, three hundred hairy ones, who had contact with the lobby instead of you. Then they're really bringing you around. And I really don't want that. My colleague Anja would probably say Shame is a shame! I'm telling you this on purpose. If you don't have the lobby under control, then "you're done", there's no other, so sorry. Now I want to touch some more things. I still have time. On these committees on which I have sat, on infrastructure, they have already spoken a lot, I hope that this will not really happen, this deepening of interregional, within regional differences, the division of Slovenia into one first, second, third. The environmental sector is a sector that has been neglected in this country since my doctorate mentor was a minister, and later it was only worse. There is no awareness of climate change. In fact, serious countries are working hard on this. In the economy, employees are forgotten. Looks like they're still a cost. A culture of fear – I was told that the Minister of Public Administration somehow exposed something almost such that workers in public administration must be afraid. We have to go into a culture of trust, like you said. I have a feeling that some candidates for ministers and ministers may have stepped in too many shoes, but let's give them a chance. But what do I expect? I expect if it turns out that after the new year at the latest they say, "Hey, sorry, that's too much for me. And then it doesn't make a lot of fines here in the National Assembly to give up nicely, to find new candidates. Slovenia is small. I know you've been calling a few of my friends, but they didn't want to go as ministers. Maybe someone will change their mind in the meantime. It's not a joke. That's very well-intentioned. It's a serious time. Let's stop messing around. Whoever gets into too many boots, we don't put him on the pranger, nothing like that, and I'm not for ballet either. Otherwise, it's all good. I'd like to say one last thing. Look, Mr Cerar, I put this on the facebook now, it's a little rude: you're the President of the Government of Slovenia. In about an hour, you will have the government voted because you have enough votes. You're not a moral theologian anymore. Please be aware of this and let's go to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u153	Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u154	Thank you very much, President. I listened very carefully to whether you would answer what I asked myself or not, and you answered. But now I have new questions, and you haven't checked in. Now I don't know how you'll answer. Well, you won't answer. But the new questions are as follows. You said you trusted the entire team and that you had no problem with it, that is, the candidate for the justice minister. He got a negative opinion from the Court of Auditors. He violated 15 items, according to a negative opinion of the Court of Auditors. So this is not a circumstance that would bother you to propose it as a minister. At the same time, you say that, in the case of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services, there is a situation which is disturbing with Mr Janša. Okay. Give her a legal definition and tell her which law prohibits this. Is it a constitution or is it a law, or is it a submarital act? I don't know that. Or is this the Rules of Procedure? You say, right, right, and one more right. So tell me which article is holding you back. At the same time, however, you are not hampered by the Court's 15-items on the negative opinion of the Commission's business to prevent corruption, led by Mr Klemenčič. It doesn't work together. I told you before to have one meter that has a hundred centimeters for everyone. Now you've got two meters. One shows you so much, one shows you as much, as much as you pull, so much as shows you. That's a very convenient thing to do. You were talking about the abuse of the rules of procedure. Tell me, which article did Mrs. Irgle or Mr. Shircel violate? Which article of the Rules of Procedure has been violated? Or do you swear to any Russian law? I don't know because they're out there somehow or now it's valid or not valid that what's not forbidden is allowed. [[…]] Does the opposite apply to you now or how? Indeed, the Rules of Procedure do not say that interested labour bodies in this case could not question candidates. And now you're saying it's an abuse. What article? I'll always ask you questions about the articles. In fact, you have come to power with the words "right" and "justice". Now I can see that these two aren't going in any way together. Even what you said about Mrs. Bratusek, "I would break the law." I, if I say something, you're probably right, there's nothing to balance here now, but it won't be valid in an hour. In an hour, that's not gonna apply anymore. You can take a decision at the government meeting within an hour: The Government of the Republic of Slovenia revokes the decision of the previous government and proposes a new candidate, Janez Novak, I do not know who. Every Janez Novak is likely to be better than the current candidate. So, here you have no problem if this lady has broken all the rules, close both eyes and wait for an opinion from the KPK, and the lady does not pick up the mail. And she won't lift it either. We can bet here. She won't pick it up. It will delay so long that all the deadlines will expire and it will become Commissioner, and then you will really not be able to act anymore, because we both know that. But within an hour, you can make a decision like this, which is why you have all the legal basis. You have a legal basis because you can at any time, of course until you are appointed to the European Parliament, absolutely cancel the decision of the previous government, but obviously you do not want to do so. In short, I'm calling you again, and I'm asking you to buy a meter that will be hard. The best would be the ones they used to have in primary schools, you know, the one that's made of wood, you can't stretch or put together, and it always shows a hundred centimeters, one meter is a hundred centimeters, it's always there. And it's a lot different with yours because it's elastic, and that's not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u155	Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u156	Thank you, President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government! I'll start with what you were doing in your answer. You said "in my opinion" several times. And I have a feeling that you have put yourself through this not only over Slovenian legislation, but even over the Slovenian Constitution. But the constitution stayed somewhere on the left half, and you're on the right half. And it's like a moral, especially a legal, highly moral person. And even though your opinion is obviously worth more than the constitution, you will remain politically alive. On the other hand, you said the numbers could be an empty promise. So that's what this government is going to be – numbers, actions are not necessary. That's why we've listened so many times at the hearings, "priority will", "need", "provide," "ensure", "ensure", "provide", "one hundred ten things" "we will". But how will we measure this, as the predecessor said – we will not, we will only upgrade, we will ensure. Nothing measurable, and this government will remain intact. I'm really wondering how long. After hearings, given that we have a vote on the government today, I somehow felt that one third of the ministers, as if they didn't even want to be ministers or at least not for the area for which they were nominated. One third of ministers, in my opinion, had a personal goal of being ministers. One third of ministers would do something, but they don't know how, with what, with no one. So, just a little bit of what someone specifically promised when we Members, especially the opposition, asked him how, with what, there was no answer. A few cases. Long - term care, we asked where you would take it — silence. We will do energy rehabilitation of public buildings, where you will take – silence. Police officers will be excluded from the public service system, how to – silence. These are the measuring centimeters and meters that we will not be able to measure at the end of the mandate because they are obviously incomparable to you or, as you yourself said, the numbers can be an empty promise. And precisely because of such hearings and because of such performances as you have had today, Mr President of the Government, both at the beginning and now at the end, we know who will be the winner of these early elections – the public administration. They are always immeasurable and such a public administration will also remain – immeasurable, with ease. So, I think when we look at these hearings and read the coalition contract, I feel like we've been reading some kind of fictional file, but the end of this fairy tale is not going to be happy, or especially when we see it and read it, it's going to be over soon, and in the end we won't have a meter to measure its success. And to conclude. Two months, more than two months after 13. July – red thread The rule of law and ethics, but more and more it appears, with each day it appears more, some are letters on paper and some are acts. Dear Prime Minister, the two predecessors have already said, you're the Prime Minister, you're not just a professor anymore, you're not, as I believe, a moral theologian, you're the Prime Minister of the Government. Rule, take decisions, prepare laws, and in particular respect for the Constitution and the will of citizens and citizens. And with one decision you can respect both the legislation and the will of the electorate and withdraw the decision of the previous Government and propose a new candidate for Commissioner. If we have been talking about women's quotas for 10 years, there is no harm in not finding a capable woman in Slovenia. We can then list them in the hallway at least 10, regardless of political affiliation, which will be much better, professional, with all the competences, than the lady who said to herself within Slovenia, No, we have defended ourselves against the threesome. In Brussels, she jumped threes directly into her arms and arms. Dear Prime Minister, if you want to be different from your predecessors, do what you say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u157	Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u158	Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. Nicely greeted! Mr Cerar, I believe you are aware of the responsibility you accept, which is why you went to the elections along with your list. But I'm afraid, based on experience, and also based on hearings by ministerial candidates, that some of your team, future teams of yours, are not aware of these responsibilities. You said you and Mr. candidate for the Minister of Infrastructure had already settled your differences last night. You know, today at 10 a.m., Mr. Candidate for Minister of Infrastructure said that we do not need another track. So I don't know what kind of disagreements you have settled, and I find it hard to believe that, after such firm positions as the candidate for the Minister of Infrastructure on the parliamentary committee, he could change his views so quickly. Part of your team, I doubt he's aware of the responsibility that lies ahead of you. So your coalition is facing two key problems. I'm telling you this on purpose. The first problem is substantive differences and the second problem is coalition partners, which has already been heard today, and what you have said in your answer to the first round of questions and debates has already been said that you are not afraid that the coalition will fall apart. But let the substantive differences first. So I was on the Infrastructure Committee and it is not just the second track, it is also the completion of the Drazenci-Gruškovje motorway. It's the only leg of the highway that's needed to get to Amsterdam to Thessaloniki, and we're out. And the answer was whether this part of the highway would be built for German tourists waiting there in the summer. Yeah, we need to build this part. With regard to the second track, if the candidate for the minister and if you're so judging that the money is gone, see, Luke Koper needs the second track. If we're the owners, then let's make sure. But if we're not able to provide a second track, then we'll sell Luka Koper to the railroads. Do not think and pretend that these ugly Germans who will come and buy Slovenian railways will take the tracks with them to Germany. Just like they didn't take the airport runway when they bought the airport. There are also substantive differences between you, between Minister Maramor and the candidate for Minister of Health. You know, Mr. Maramor says that this basket of rights is going to go down, the minister says otherwise. They're also talking about giving, and you're also talking about this tax, and because there's no supplementary insurance here without even knowing what this tax is going to look like. We don't have a plan for termination and compensation for supplementary insurance. As far as the other part is concerned. This is part of the coalition partners, you know, if there is no conflict first, but it will be when we are due to the non-sales of state-owned companies when you have to, when the coalition parties coordinate, who will sit in the relevant corporate administrations and supervisory councils. And here you have a customer, Desus, and an SD client, who in the past has already shown quite a bit about these areas. The first step to avoid this is to recommend real privatisation as soon as possible. As far as this is concerned, the party Desus has been mentioned several times today, but you know, this should be stressed and it is right to warn you, because you said that your policy would lead Slovenia out of the crisis for the first time, and you also said that you would strive to keep this coalition strong. But in both of these things, you'll be under the illusion that someone's been fighting for the pensioners for 10 years, despite the fact that in these 10 years of real retirement, your coalition has been compromised. That is why I wish you as much wisdom as possible to know both the client Desus and Karel Erjavac, who has finally turned his back on all the government presidents so far, including Alenka Bratušek, at the end and also Borut Pahor, so that you will know how to steer well among the thorns that threaten you. Thank you very much and to the ministerial team, even to you personally, I wish you well as much success as possible in your journey.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u159	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Once again, distinguished Prime Minister Dr. Miro Cerar, dear colleagues and colleagues! At this point, the entire future ministerial team is probably already in this house, some future ministers, the prime ministers are here in this room, and the others are probably waiting in room 111. On today's birthday, the 12th Slovenian governments want Members and Members of the New Slovenia to prove that we will be a constructive opposition, which means that we will be critical of mistakes and that we will also come before the government before this assembly with solutions. And allow, at this time, as far as I can see, some of our views on the strategic challenges of economic policy in Slovenia. Although signs of economic recovery appear, economic growth in Slovenia is likely to be weak and volatile if Slovenia does not face obstacles to recovery. There is simply no other way for Slovenia. We will not be able to achieve economic growth on the same basis as in the pre-crisis period. We need to address the structural weaknesses in the economy that were hidden at the time of rapid growth and revealed by the recession period. The integrity of the policy package, the complementarity of the measures and the speed of their implementation will determine how quickly we will be able to restore sustainable economic growth, which must be based on a new investment start of the economy, but with ownership and not more debt financing. The priorities for restoring the economy are as follows, so at least we see them. Surely you all know and know that Nova Slovenija will always be the messenger of the Slovenian economy and also the responsible owners here in the National Assembly. What are the priorities for restoring the economy? Firstly, the effectiveness of legislation and the judicial system. Secondly, the extension and restructuring of companies. Thirdly, improving the balance sheets of banks and establishing more sustainable foundations for financial stability. Fourthly, strengthening the long-term sustainability of public finances. We need a clear, consistent and coherent national strategic policy that will promote macroeconomic and financial stability, openness, emphasis on openness, equity investment and the resolution of institutional and regulatory barriers currently blocking investment flows. These measures will need to be complemented by additional measures that we discussed during the election campaign, not because of the campaign, because of Slovenia. And they are, and these additional measures are as follows. Firstly, health reform, secondly, pension reform, thirdly, labour market reform, fourthly, reorganisation of local administration not only administration, it is said, not municipalities of administration and financing of local communities, fifthly, rationalisation of education costs and sixthly, more efficient consumption of social transfers and subsidies. There will be plenty of time when we can discuss all these measures more thoroughly after these reforms, for today and for these minutes that will be enough. Once again a happy new Slovenian, 12th Slovenian government.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u161	Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government! Mr Gasperšič, a candidate for minister, an expert, gave me a very professionally negative surprise. On the other hand, I totally believe what he said at the hearing. He gave five elements he wouldn't do. Dear Prime Minister, you today apologized to him in two segments that he had made a mistake because he said that the second track would not take another 30 years and that the third development axis was absolutely not a priority. We can see from hearing or from a magnetogram that he stated that Koroška would be a sleeping village and that some third developmental direction was not needed. I think, Mr. President of the Government, you need to excuse him in the next three segments. The candidate said that absolutely in Slovenia there is no advantage of highway connection against Croatia in the section Dražence– Gruškovje, in the section Postojna–Yelšane, if Slovenians do not need it and for three weekends in the season for foreign tourists we will not do it. Draženci-Gruškovje is the only infrastructure project of national importance that is ready to ready this go, including with the possibility of drawing on European funds. And with this government, that's not a priority. It's not a priority! Interesting. Then, proceed. Luca Koper. The port of Koper does not need development, does not need a third pier and that the business strategy should be to connect with other ports in the northern Adriatic. Very good. And it is true that everyone else is rapidly developing and building port infrastructure. Of course, they look forward to the moves and strategies of our new government. They will be happy to accept it, business cooperation. But at home we've been doing deeper, I don't know, three years. Nor is that, I would say, the priority of the Slovenian new government. For me, the Ministry of Infrastructure, because this is the only area that will give jobs and start-up and development to the economy, is the most important sector in the whole, I don't know how many, 17, 16 ministerial departments, are the most important to me. Because it is the only way in which we can increase the scale of work in our country. And by doing so, we will employ a greater share of the professional economic work. But this right now, from now on, is no longer a priority. Dear Prime Minister, I believe you will have a lot of work with every department of the Ministry, but I would say the following or advise you not to work for them. If I turn further to the environment and space. For this department, I can't even give an opinion about this candidate because there was no profession there, there was no vision there, there was nothing in short. And I would also advise Desus, when he chooses his candidate and candidates for ministers, in Poland we have a very strong pensioner society, which is very well educated during the third life period, and we have very many experts, very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u163	Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u164	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to the Prime Minister and colleagues and colleagues! I myself have listened carefully to the presentation of the ministerial team by the President of the Government and his explanation, including to the question raised in this first set, and also to his replies to the views put forward by the parliamentary groups. In the first part, he said that there would be a need to ensure good cross-cutting coordination, unification in key directions and changes and to rely on professional backgrounds and eligibility and analysis. In the second part, when answering some of the questions and statements of the parliamentary groups, he spoke about the autonomy of individual candidates for ministers and that it is right to have their views and so on. Indeed, in the pre-election period, there was a lot of talk about new receptions, new procedures, how the new government would come with a new paradigm, but at the hearings I listened by most ministers to make studies first, first to consult with employees in ministries and then to take action. Isn't that a little strange for you? If someone came to power by talking about new paradigms, new approaches, new ways of managing things and so on, one would expect a ministerial team to present at least one, three concrete measures when presented in the National Assembly. I cannot judge all ministers, but as has been said, some have had good presentations, perhaps in a minority, some relatively poor, but for some it would be better not to appear. And the Prime Minister says he trusts everyone. He also trusted the candidate for minister, but he replaced him just before the present, I hope that before all the ministers sign, there will be no change. At those hearings where I was present, I must be critical, because the ministers did not give any new paradigm, no vision. Not the Minister of Economy, not the Minister of Infrastructure, whom some say may have made a slight mistake, but I doubt that an official who works practically for 13 years in this department, for whom he has now been appointed Minister, Environment and Space and Infrastructure, would have said some things of his own accord. I believe that after two months of coordination of a ministerial team, some ministers probably had a briefing with the Prime Minister, even at the hearing session, he said he had the support of the Prime Minister. However, it informed the members of the committee that the coalition Members were also embarrassed. I think some things were really over the top. There is a lot of talk by all about how to start up the economy, consolidate public finances, and all of you note that as much as possible European funds must be drawn from the previous financial perspective, including the new one, to start the economy. However, when we had the Minister of Environment and Space, which will somehow be crucial in this segment, because it covers the placement in space, we have not heard a word from her about how these matters will be dealt with. Every answer was, and I will consult with my employees at the Ministry. Is this the dream team that will solve the problems that have arisen all this time? The Minister who has come to such a difficult position must have at least two, three goals for which he can vehemently tell himself at the hearing. We didn't hear that. From no minister. The Minister of Economy also said that the credit crunch was a problem, but he did not mention a single measure to solve it. He also talked about consulting, ordering studies, and so on. I have to say, I've been to a lot of hearings myself, but these last ones have been one big disappointment to me. And some ministers, or ministers, I highly doubt that they will survive a month of the ministry, because hearing was already an absolutely exhausting matter for them. When they went on vacation, we wondered if they'd come back. So it is very difficult for me to support such a ministerial team, which can't present any concrete action, with all the talk about a new perspective or a new paradigm, how we will solve problems. We're not going to solve one problem this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u165	Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u166	Thank you so much for saying that. Here we have heard that the President of the Government and his candidate for Minister of Transport or Infrastructure have agreed on a second track. I'm afraid we'll get another blind track, not another track. There was also a lot of talk about how this team that was proposed was in some ways optimal. However, if I look only at the areas of culture and face in the Mir Cerar party, I see that this team is not optimal because there are many people affected, not only in the area of culture, but also in some other area of expertise. I would like to remind you, Mr President of the Government, that I am disappointed that you have not justified your proposal for a Minister of Justice, Mr Klemenčič. You spoke earlier, in your introduction on childishness, I presented to you the audit report of the Court of Auditors, which I have here, and I can give it to you. And it is written here that Goran Klemenčič, President of the Senate, violated 8 laws, 3 regulations and several contracts in his work and therefore received a negative opinion from the Court of Auditors. Mr. Goran Klemenčič has resigned. Probably because he already knew from these coordination meetings that a proposal for the discharge of the Head of Authority would follow this. The second is that he was given a negative opinion about his work by someone who was supposed to control corruption, but he himself broke eight laws, including the Anti-Corruption Act. This is a very bad signal for your candidate, and especially for you, because you are this candidate, who has such negative references, from the only audit independent institution in this country that controls the state budget to propose him as a candidate for minister. But this raises another question that I think will soon be relevant. What's going to happen to the Court of Auditors? This is the next question in this process, because I doubt that this coalition will go so smoothly through this audit report, through this reference sheet, a negative reference sheet for your candidate for minister and will not act in this area. And I would very much ask you to argue why Goran Klemenčič is actually a suitable candidate for a minister, if you have predicted such a saving respect for the rule of law, ethical standards and so on and so forth. Now, if I take the next case that opens up to me here, you say that there is no more time for politics and accounting. What is happening with my fellow Member, Janez Janša, is politics and accounting. It's a typical case. You and your client work in the National Assembly quite the opposite of what you say. It's completely different from the values you're defending. My colleague Gorenak mentioned this, please give me one legal basis to prevent any member of the National Assembly from working in any working body of the National Assembly. This legal basis is not, not constitutional, not legal, not business. And you guys can afford to do that. You're acting like one, Mr. Cerar, like the Caliph and his team, deciding who's going to survive and who's going to be beheaded. That is exactly the way these things are done in the National Assembly and in this country. And if this is a criterion that, based on faces, based on political affiliation, you decide who is suitable for something, regardless of negative references, and who is not suitable for something, regardless of whether there is no legal basis for it, then we cannot say that you are an advocate of the rule of law. You're an advocate of another country. And also what you have done in your career within the framework of the Council of Justice, when you have not detected any errors in the work of the judiciary, when there have been many violations of human rights in judicial decisions, and as President of the Council of Justice, you have done nothing, the National Assembly has received nothing, talks about having double standards, one for you and you, the other for the other, or political competition on the other hand, one for the large, red, the other for the small people. And I think that's the way [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u167	Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u168	Thank you for your word, President. Well hailed, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Today, the painting, which began in 2012, is finally being completed during the last Janša government. A number of candidates who would become ministers today, which I have no doubt, had an extremely important role to play at that time. They played their part well and well – all from leading a procedure with the Commission to prevent corruption, departures and media performances by some ministers to inviting people to the streets. They took care of everyone, even the rebels who threw granite cubes at the cops. You didn't care about people at the time, and you don't care about people today. But I must congratulate you on your success and I believe that many citizens and citizens have overlooked you. But if you were played at the time, you're acting very well today, as has already been said. As an economist, I have to touch the economy, because only economic growth is the basis of the country's lasting well-being. I believe we all agree. Expectations for the Minister of the Economy are great and I liked it when you kind of listed the order, but first you put the Minister of Finance, second Minister of the Economy and then the Minister without the cohesion and European resources. On the other hand, we know that only the Minister of Economy, without the cooperation of the other departments, will do anything. In most cases, it is up to the Minister of Finance, which is why very good coordination is needed with him in the first place, which is why I did not have a sense of these presentations by the candidates. As the candidate for Minister of Economy at the presentation has already identified, many areas that are important to the economy fall under another heading. And as a messenger of the economy, for which he himself said he would stand up, he would have to be very strongly coordinated with them in order to achieve the desired goals. Let me just give you a few examples, say, on working legislation with the Ministry of Labour, on bankruptcy legislation, which he stressed very much, with the Minister of Justice, on obtaining permits with the Minister of Environment and Space and, of course, with the Minister without a heading on European funds, which are in some way our almost only developmental resource. But it can also be his answer that this does not belong to his department, as was the answer to one of my questions or two, just an excuse not to make any change. Without excellent and unified cooperation, this story will not have a good end. I have to say, I don't feel the connection right now. On the contrary, you're acting really out of line, and I'm sorry to have to say that. However, since I come from the Halo municipality, despite the fact that this has already been highlighted several times, I was actually indignant at the statement made by the Minister of Infrastructure concerning the completion of the Drazenci-Gruškovje motorway section. After many years, when the DARS finally put this into the programme and at the end of this year, the construction of this missing section is expected to begin, we have heard that it is essentially not developmental at all and that it is only for some German tourists. It's not about some German tourists, it's about over 8 million people crossing this transition, and it's about all of us living in that environment. It is the development of the region, the development of the economy and whatever the development of Slovenia. But I really hope that this was just a mistake or maybe because all the candidates, because one is more experts, the other is more politicians, that more experts and less politicians are possible and that this has led to such a mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u169	The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u170	Good-bye to all of you! When a new government is put in place, concern for the well-being of people should be the first and final word, with consistent respect for values. People's well-being today can only be based on a successful economy, whose foundation in any modern economy is well-developed small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. We should therefore talk here today about programmes, how to enable Slovenia's small and medium-sized entrepreneurship to breathe with full lungs. We've heard a little or nothing about it. It would be what is the only permanent foundation for the well-being of people and everything that we have actually discussed for a long and wide time today. In order to make this happen, however, I would need a team that would be unified, highly professional and fully coordinated and lead in the same direction. The fact that the President of the Government corrected the wrong statements of his ministers at the hearings now and poured ashes, of course, tells a great deal about the consistency and expertise of this team. It's something that obviously won't work. And even more, if we look at the composition of this team a little bit closer, there's a lot of things that seem very familiar to us, from the LDS times. It's about what this government is really about, how it's going to work. Because it will be very questionable if in a while we will meet with the same policy that we have had so far. And it's a big fear that that's exactly how it's gonna be. Why? Look, this government has invited a minister, a candidate who is literally Mrs Alenka Bratušek's political father, into the ranks of his government. Without the Lord Magi. Goran Klemenčič at the head of the KPK and the work of this Mrs Alenka Bratušek at the head of the government and the massacre she left behind and for the prize she has now won the European Union would never have been. And without the dispersion of Alenka Bratušek, who is in some way the political mother of the current coalition, there would be no circumstances in which early elections took place, and there would be no current coalition. So in a way, you're just one big family. Moreover, when Mr Klemenčič was invited into his own kind, in fact, responsibility for the inheritance was also assumed. At Mr Klemenčič's hearing, I asked him to stress the definition of systemic corruption. You know, the story of the so-called Anti-Corruption Commission, which so fatefully affected Slovenia's further development, is interesting. Term Praprotnik is now one of the leading men of the largest state-owned bank. One of the leaders. But the one who was the chairman of the commission was a politician before that, then suddenly he was an expert, he did some very political work, and now he gets his political office back for the prize. Believe that the definition of systemic corruption from this person would sound mildly said very funny. And, of course, he didn't give it. But this does not mean that responsibility for what happened can be avoided. Today, a government is being appointed, in a series of which it is clear that it has invited a man who, according to another independent institution — the Court of Auditors — has violated 8 laws. And that's okay, it's not a problem, although it's a rule as a responsible person of a state institution and now it's taking responsibility for another. Let him understand who can. But what I personally think follows from this is simply the fact that we only get one more government of the transition left. And how do the governments of the transition left work? Now we've had two, Pahor's and Brother's. Each Transitional Left Government has caused more poor people to become more impotent due to its developmental impotentity and, with the magnificence of social emphasis, these poor voted even more for the transition left in the next elections. And so we are now witnessing the third cycle in which it already reaches a two-thirds constitutional majority in the Slovenian Parliament. If we look at it from the side, it's very interesting and absolutely nothing good promising. At the end of her speech, a large majority of you today wished you good luck to the ministerial team. I will do otherwise, because many of these ministers I know well, I wish them all luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u171	She has a word, Mrs. Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u172	I don't know, maybe I'm the only one who has this feeling that my speech will now come as a refreshment after this last really spirited block, which was based on a lot of paranoia, pushing and altering facts. [[advertising from the hall]] Please. I am indignant, Mrs Susana beautiful Šimenka, that you said that there was someone behind us, the rebels, Mr Cerar or perhaps someone else. There was no one behind me, I believe that my colleagues, who were supposed to come with granite dice to Parliament, had no one behind us. And I'm really offended, because no one's ever stood behind me. Dear President, I'll start somewhere else. At the beginning of this very long meeting, colleague Hanžek spoke about vulnerable groups, the rights of smaller children, and the rights of children. Our human greatness is shown by how noble we are to the weakest. That's why I'm going to talk about animal rights right now. I know that many will say how today, when there are so many hungry children, people and employees in Slovenia, why would you talk about animal rights today. The crisis must not be an excuse for our inhumane conduct and inflicting pain on any living creature. So I don't know why we shouldn't replace a breed that's pretty unfriendly with letting go. Why don't we leave the animal transport and get some milk, eggs from lucky animals, meat eaters. Why don't we eat meat with no antibiotics, no hormones, and no adrenaline produced by fear and suffering? I come from the White Land and Dr. Cerar have been elected by many vegetarians, many people who have said that this man is merciful to animals, he will be able to save the country. That's why I'm asking you, Dr. Cerar, maybe I'm even asking you to point your conductor stick at VURS and the inviolability of Director VURS, who's been there for 10 years. Its inspectors, however, usually punish only animal torturers, not those who torture animals. This thing culminated in a recent discovery of dog fights. In Slovenia they found a circus of 20 dog beds where these animals are inhumanely tortured and prepared for battle. We know that dog fights are connected to big cash deposits, so I'm gonna tell him some pretty dirty bloody money. And if suspicion of the corrupt actions of the inspectors are confirmed, it will be a grave stain on your government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u173	This concludes the debate and passes the vote. In accordance with Rule 232 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the appointment of ministers and ministers shall be voted on by voting on the list of candidates and candidates for ministers and ministers in full. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting debates. I shall put to the vote the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly shall appoint a mag. Juliano Bizjak Mlakar for Minister of Culture, mag. Mr Violeto Bulc, Minister without a department responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Dr Petr Gasperšić, Minister of Infrastructure, Mag. Ms Vesno Györkös Žnidar as Minister of the Interior, Mag. Mr Goran Klemenčič for the Minister of Justice, Mrs Marija Milojko Kolar Celarc for the Minister of Health, Dr Anjo Kopač Mrak for the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Mr Boris Koprivnik for the Minister of Public Administration, Mrs Irena Majcen for the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Dušan Mramor for the Minister of Finance, Mr Jožef Petrovic for the Minister of Economic Development and Technology, Dr Stanko Setnikar Cankar for the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Mr Janko Webra for the Minister of Defence, mag. Mr Žmavc as Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and Mr Gorazd Žmavc as Minister without a department responsible for relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world. Now there's an explanation for the voice, if I understand the clue correctly. I ask, which parliamentary group wants to explain the voice? I give the floor to the SDS Group, Mr Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u174	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Our proposed list of candidates for ministers will not be supported by our Group of Members. We said that at the hearings, virtually more than half of the team, there was a very poor representation. A number of questions were unexplained. Also today, the President of the Government did not take the opportunity to explain what we asked him today instead of his candidates. Finally, he did not explain some of the options for his top ministerial team proposals, especially those which have been burdened by mortgages in their work so far, and the irrevocable findings of the Court of Auditors. Some, one of the candidates is Mr Klemenčič, violated eight laws, three regulations, even a series of contracts, got a negative opinion, had previously resigned because he would probably have followed the call for a discharge and thus avoided it. And now the candidate who has this poor mortgage on respect for the principles of the rule of law is actually an opportunity to become Minister of Justice. It's ironic. That's actually, Mr. Cerar, childish. Such a team, which in fact did not bring any concrete answers, which worked very uncoordinatedly at the hearings, the Minister of Finance presents one picture, his candidates another, one minister, the next minister, and so on. In short, such a team cannot be supported. I would suggest that the President of the Government take a look at himself. Not everything is as beautiful as it says. His actions are different from his words; his actions are different from his words. I don't think anything good can be expected in the next period. But I would point to another problem, and I think it's very relevant. I fear that the Court of Auditors will be affected by what happened to SDK once in the past, when SDK found a number of infringements, the measure followed to decompose the service. I'm afraid something like this is going to happen to the Court of Auditors. This is the next bad trip that is likely to take place in the mandate of the Government of Mir Cerar. There is no reason to support this personnel proposal. And we'll do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u175	I give the word to Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovac on behalf of the United Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u176	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr President of the Government, the United Left, of course, will not today support your government, especially because it is concerned that it will not make those radical changes that would lead to unconditional social equality. However, we hope that your government and you will be able to listen to the criticisms, the criticisms of the left, the criticisms of civil society, the criticisms of trade unions, the criticisms of the majority of citizens in fact, in the work and with your government's programme and your actions, in some way, to integrate and give priority to such measures that will not be cut into fundamental social rights and such measures that will not reduce the quality of life. But by not supporting your government today, of course, we are not saying that we are not ready to support the measures that will lead to what I just wrote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u177	Thank you very much. As I see it, you're also in favor of an individual interpretation of the voice, so I'm flexing the list. I give the floor to Mrs. Anji Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u178	Your Honor, the reason your ministerial team isn't unified is because you were looking at their initial confusion. You have somehow humiliated your own team with this. And I'll tell you where the real reason is. The real reason is that you don't have a program and that there was virtually nothing to unify and continue to agree on. And this, respected Cerar, to justify the violation of the laws and thus the opinion of the Court of Auditors and thus direct the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, that the Court of Auditors does not need to be taken into account, does not deserve my vote, and not on my behalf, but I believe that also on behalf of the electorates and voters who are committed to the constitution and respect of all laws.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u179	I speak to Mr. Micha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u180	Thank you very much. In some basic criticism and explanation, I am joining Comrade Vatovac, who has already given it, and I would like to remain in two other areas that I could follow a little more closely. First, it touches on health and social matters, which would point out two problematic points which are definitely not in favour here. The first is supplementary insurance. If this is compensated by a flat-rate tax that will be the same for all whether these people have high or low incomes, we will come from the rain under attack. In short, we will not burden the low-income population. That's the first thing. That's another thing. We're even more concerned about new long-term care insurance. The healthcare candidate says that all emergency services will cover compulsory insurance that can relieve the socially weak, but the Ministry of Labour is offering a law that is already in preparation, which provides for compulsory contractual insurance, which would also be issued by private insurance companies. If this model prevails, the government will make the same mistake as it did 20 years ago. Since health insurance companies are looking for income to compensate for the loss of supplementary insurance premiums, we can expect a great deal of temptation here. As for education, however, the candidate showed that she was experiencing some basic problems, including the fact that doctoral studies are not free and that there is no partial school subsidy this year. It also perceives the problem of pre-arrangement within higher education institutions, which is becoming increasingly attractive. Now there is no way to solve these problems. There are some desires, but unfortunately these desires call for the blessing of the future government's Finance Minister Dusan Marble, who has already announced an even greater misery for the working people, with a firm hand committed to a policy of budgetary sustainability, and here is where the story ends. And it stops pious desires in order [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u181	Explanation of the voice of the Magi. Branca Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u182	When presenting the government programme, care should be given to the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, thereby justifying the well-being of people with a consistent respect for the values of the first and last words. Instead, we have witnessed today how the mandate-holder apologized even before the government put up for the serious kicks of its candidate, because it is obvious that everyone has said something else. This cannot produce success and I will vote against it. A lot of you wish the ministerial team good luck with that. I'll do it myself. Because we know some of the proposed ministers, including lawbreakers, I wish good luck to our country of Slovenia. With both the "shocked" team and with such a coalition as it is, poor Slovenia will need all the luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u183	Explanation of Mr Franz Breznik's voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, I, too, must admit today that I will vote against it, especially on the basis of what I have heard in many hearings. I must admit that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we have gathered even the number of municipal councilors or candidates for municipal councillors in these elections, which are more competent than some candidates for ministers. You have a whole range of people who don't want this function at all, you have a whole range of people you have in your ranks, better candidates, and you didn't put them in this position, you have people who represent Slovenia outside our borders, but they don't speak English. And look, these are not the people who will decide how the two million people will live in the future. It's toying with the fate of this nation. We owe each other exponentially. Dear Prime Minister, we do not need a new Ljubljana Archbishop at this time, we need an operational Prime Minister of the Government. And also your words that you used when you left as well as a constitutional lawyer outside the law, when you argued to your colleagues, that is, you went to Mr Janša's mandate, and when you left law to morality – and morality, as you know, is not something as objective as it should be right – also some, I can say, serious transgressions also with respect to your legal knowledge, regarding constitutional law. That's what the future will show. I'm sure of my words. I wish you all well, you will need plenty of happiness, especially because you are not here today, I can tell you, you have still presented no programme and no serious vision of this country in the future. That's why I can't support you. But I'm expecting, or I want you to make a mistake, make it better, and have some hidden tummy in your sleeve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u185	Explanation of the voice of Dr. Franz Trcko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u186	Thank you for your word. I will vote against not only the party line, but for some other reason called the style or physionomy of the spirit – German classical philosophy. What was wrong with me? I was disturbed by these hearings, and you said today, Comrade Mira, there is no disagreement here. We need – and I will use a dictionary that is not my love – creative disagreements, both in the government and here, different views on where to take things, my colleague Grims would say, this homeland and that we are solving in accordance with, we sociologists would say, with Paretto's optimism. In short, if we make a decision to improve something that others do not draw short. With the exception of the lady or Comrade Violeta Bulc – and I don't even care who her father-in-law is – I haven't seen this move in my opinion. The opinion that is present is, Zižek would say, crackling, Cracker was fine in the 19th century, but it's not right for the 21st century. We need to start thinking together for the 21st century, coming out of the differences between us, because these differences make us rich, and from these differences we can draw, I'm going to say flosculo, this wagon somewhere else. The times when people don't jump like us do in some societies that want to be developed are over. I will therefore vote against it. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u187	Is there any other explanation for the voice? I'm going through the list. Explanation of Mr Jana Mahnič's voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u188	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr President of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! I'll vote against it personally. I will vote against this because of Dr Cerar saying there is nothing he can do in the case of the Commissioner. In less than half an hour or 15 minutes, you will have a government, and at the 1st meeting of the government you can cancel the decision taken by the previous government. I will vote against this because we do not live in 2007, when the first government of Janez Janša created a budget surplus. And this programme you presented is a programme for times when we have a budget surplus. I'm afraid we have a minus, and that's why I'm voting against it. I will vote against this because there was too little emphasis on young people, because I did not get the assurance that the traineeship paid, that state housing would be placed on the market, that young people would be allowed at favourable prices and that these prices would also be counted as a ransom. Because I have not been assured that there will be more infrastructure projects specifically for rural areas. We know that more than 80 % of the assets were pinched in the roadside line. You didn't stand for this. Your candidates didn't stand for this money to come back. Citizens pay more each year for registrations, tolls and so on and roads are worse every year. I will vote against it because there is no vision, no concrete proposals. I will vote against if I can use the term that Dr. Trček said very well earlier, because we cannot simply support the "rural boys" of such a team.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u189	Explanation of Mr Daniel Krivec's voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u190	Thank you for your word. I can't fully support this team myself. I could support some ministers, because they had a vision and a specific programme, but this is not about the likeness or dissatisfaction of ministers, but about their competences and their visions. Despite two months of orchestration and preparation, this orchestra presented itself to us was very bad. He didn't have any common goals, most of the time, so it's very hard to support a team like that. In addition, there are many moral issues, including this decision which the new government will be able to reject, say what has been said about the appointment of the Commissioner. In the National Assembly, we are hearing from all ministers and also from the President of the Government that it will be necessary to tighten the belt, that the situation is severe in this country and, on the other hand, our future Commissioner says that everything in our country is in the best order, a little less so as to drain honey and milk. And in this case, I would expect some who have spoken in a large mouth about the fact that this appointment is wrong or that it is also illegal and sit in the previous and present government and will also be able to decide whether to do so and not only to speak but also to make decisions and thus, of course, to take responsibilities.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u191	Explanation of Mr Bojan Podobrška's vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u192	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government, all candidates and candidates for the ministries! I will also vote against this government for several reasons. I may just remember, we've heard the word "new faces" a lot today, and I don't mean my colleagues on the right, but let me remind you of the new faces that came to this Parliament at the end of 2011. There's only a few left of it today. That's why sometimes I think about new faces. Once again, my respectable colleagues, I have no doubt about you. The second reason is because I'm afraid that this ship you're going to be driving, I sincerely hope, for four years, that someone will jump out of this ship at the first wave of coalition partners. Dear Prime Minister and all the candidates and ministers, I have no doubt about you because I do not know you, but I have listened to things this past week – and if I touch the orchestra a little bit, it seems to me that you have had no conversation, no exercise, but tonight is the first concert. I wish you many successful concerts in this mandate for the well-being of the Slovenes and Slovenians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u193	Any other explanation for the voice? I'm opening the application. Explanation of Mr Ljub Žnidar's voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u194	Your Honor, I will not support this list of ministers myself. I'd like you to check with me within a year to see if my decision today was right or wrong. I'll be extremely, extremely happy if this decision of mine was incorrect.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u195	Explanation of Mr Jožet Tank's voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u196	Thank you so much for saying that. I won't even support the candidate list. I won't support it because the Prime Minister doesn't have a program. I'm not going to support this because the candidates don't have a program either. Some have come to hear what they will not do, and the Prime Minister of the Government has said today what he will certainly not do. The first meeting of the Government will now be followed, which will normally be attended by a series of staff matters, appointments and discharges. A lot will happen here, but there will certainly be no change in the candidate list for the European Commissioner. This has been said, and I think it is one of the great weaknesses that the President of the Government does not want to take advantage of. I will not support the government, nor will I, because there were no answers to the questions raised. The Prime Minister of the Government has come here to defend what Members will say in the debate that he will answer the problems and questions that we will raise, but nothing has happened except for the final ex-cathedra speech. And I think that Members of the National Assembly, as well as those who have seen this and especially citizens, would deserve answers to specific questions. Why don't I support the list? Because something that has been judged in the indictment process is evident by an indictee and has been penalised in some way for it and this is considered a weakness, based on this indictee. On the other hand, you have a candidate where there is no Indian case, but it is a fact and you take it as the main competitive advantage for the candidate for the Minister of Justice. Double criteria. In this way, this country cannot function to act on faces.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u197	Explanation of Mr Simon Rabbit's vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u198	Thank you. I will vote in favour of the list for several reasons. But I'll tell you one thing. Because I think Dr. Cerar is a responsible person. He's been in this National Assembly a number of times, he's been talking to us, and he's always wanted to give us numbers. Give me the numbers. Give me the numbers. Please have the numbers. He told us every time. Look, I'm not in the government yet, I don't have all the numbers to decide how we're gonna save this country. I can't give you the exact numbers. And that seems responsible to me. Because if you don't have all the information in a position as important as the President of the Government, you can't give one exact number because you don't have anywhere to take it from. That's why I'm going to vote for this list because Dr. Cerar acted responsibly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u199	Explanation of the voice of the Magi. Aleksandra Kavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u200	Honourable President of Parliament, Honourable President of the Government, Honourable Members and Members of Parliament, Honourable Citizens and Citizens! Many words were heard, either encouraging or benevolent, as well as other words. In any case, Parliament is the place that is intended for words. I hope that we will all work together to deny the statement of the esteemed Professor Dr Vladimir Goati, who said at a lecture that it was not the best players in the film or theatre, but politics. And today, the Prime Minister of the Government has stressed that today, and in particular he has highlighted that we are not ideals, but we will strive for as high standards as possible. Today, we will vote on whether the 12th Slovenian government, namely one of the branches of government, should start working and we will give it full powers as a team to demonstrate in the field what is now enshrined in the coalition treaty during its term of office. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! I will vote for the proposed ministerial team, and I wish you all a successful job because I believe you will start working today. Thank you very much and very happy Slovenia!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u201	I guess there's still an explanation for the voice. Report. An explanation of Mr. Marko Ferruga's voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u202	Good evening, everyone! I see we're all tired here. I'll be very brief. Because once and for all I would like to say what weighs heavily on my heart is that Slovenia has too destructive negative forces. Come on, people of God, start thinking with your head and give a man a chance if he has given himself to this city, responsible for becoming a leader and for setting up this government and for the government to work. So that's all I'm asking is for us to become constructive, active, and see that we can move on. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u203	Explanation of the voice of the magi. Margareta Guček Zakošek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u204	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, citizens and citizens! I'll vote in favour. And I'm going to quote Dr. Duck again, not on the party line, I'm going to vote in favour, because there's a team in front of us that's taking all the responsibility, the courage to take this country out of the crisis. There is the power of words and there is the power of thought. I hope that your thoughts, the well-respected opposition, are different from words at certain times, and that you really want us to succeed. And let us no longer wait for the final judgment, for we have it every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u205	Explanation of the voice of the Magi. Andrea Shirtzlj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! I will vote against this team and, of course, I will vote against this government for the following reasons. For the first time in terms of the financial framework itself. I think that the data, the information known, are finally published publicly for the past period and also for the trends ahead. Some of them were even said by a candidate for the Minister of Finance, who received a negative opinion from the Court of Auditors in 2004. The negative opinion for the 2004 budget and he was then Minister until mid-December 2004. And that, of course, means that some criteria, which mean expertise, which, of course, also means some legal stabilisation, do not actually apply. It's probably just words, but actions don't. And not least because the action does not apply to the opposition's going forward and, after all, the well-respected President of the Government, the Rules of Procedure interpret it as possible for candidates to come to other working bodies. For there is no record in the Rules of Procedure that this is forbidden, that they may not and so forth. Nowhere. And, I'll say, your interpretation is, of course, one of the interpretations. And it is wrong to take into account now that we do not actually have any legal criteria in this regard. And that, after all, you're not up for talking and talking to each other, but it seems like we're off the hook, and of course we're not talking. That is why, of course, I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u207	A voice explanation, Mrs. Irene Kotnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u208	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable President of the Government, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members! All these days, I listened intensively to the opinion, including the media, the candidates and the candidates. I was at the presentation when the candidates and the candidates presented themselves, including at three hearings. I've been listening to two pages all day. On the one hand, positive things about these candidates and candidates and on the other hand negative. But if I draw a line here somewhere, I'll say, somewhere one link, I'll say, all the candidates and candidates who applied for the post of ministers and ministers have a lot of knowledge, they have a lot of experience. And what is most important to me personally is that they are prepared for all their competences, all their knowledge and all their energy to invest in finally starting to work so that something will finally change for the better in our society, in our country. And for that reason, I will vote in favour. But that's all I'd add. What do I really expect from the government? This is where I'll pass on the wishes of my constituents who voted for me. They want the questions in the National Assembly to be brief and clear, that the answers are comprehensive, without politicisation and that on the basis of this we begin to look for decisions that will be reasonable and for the benefit of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u209	Voice explanation, Mrs. Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u210	Your Honor! During the July elections, Dr. Miro Cerar received a lot of support from citizens and citizens. Your client won. So the citizens expect you to form a government. The government crisis is a deterioration of the situation in the international framework for the country and therefore we need an operational government as soon as possible. With the team you proposed, we are not satisfied, otherwise some candidates for ministers have proven themselves well, some poor, some on average. However, we estimate that we must give people a chance. And since Slovenia needs a government, we will not oppose the appointment of this government. Of course we'll be critical observers. However, time and citizens will tell whether your decisions or your orchestra conducts are made with a smile, tears, pain or happiness. That's what time will tell. That's why we're not going to support the team, but we're not going to argue with it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u211	Explanation of Mr Jernej Vrtovac's vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u212	Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! I will not vote against your team's proposal myself, nor will I support it. I am aware, however, that Slovenia needs a government immediately after this long period of so-called governmentlessness. We have been critical in the debate mainly because we wanted to give you good advice and warn you about the traps that will follow. At the same time, as I personally do, I believe that my colleagues and fellow Members are already offering a hand in finding well-intentioned solutions for our country, for citizens and citizens. Slovenia is just before a serious test. It's not five to twelve, but it's five in twelve. You've taken on a lot of responsibility. It's been accepted by your entire team. And I really wish you all well, not because of you, but because of this country, which I don't care about, and also because of people. Well, good luck! As Prime Minister, you'll play this orchestra well to be a team. For good advice, we too are prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u213	Any other explanation for the voice? I'm going through the list. Explanation of Mr Tomaž Lisco's voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u214	Thank you, President, for your word. I will not support the appointment of ministers or this government. I didn't want to get in touch, but when I heard the five-force coalition members pull two or three sentences to support this government, I could only finish with one sentence. My name is Tomaž, I'm an unfaithful Tomaž, and I don't believe words, but I believe actions. The hearings show that there are only words and actions from behind that we cannot expect, nor can we measure them. For the fourth time, I have listened to hearings in the National Assembly, for the third time as a Member, and for the first time as a professional associate, and unfortunately, the esteemed President of the Government, the worst hearings I have heard since 2005. When I heard about new faces, new knowledge, new competences, I was really expecting new experts, but we got old faces, old people with a lot of ignorance and lots of Flossules. And why do I not believe that this government will succeed? In two months we listened: the rule of law, ethics. Today, a moral theologian, a legal expert, and a president of the government tells us how important it is, not the constitution, not the legislation, not the business definition, whether his word or his opinion is important. Your Honor! Words, not actions. And when these words become such actions as to annul in one of the first conclusions the conclusion that Alenko Bratušek is proposed as Commissioner, then perhaps in time I will change my opinion on you, Mr Cerar, as Prime Minister, who holds not only words but also actions. Maybe I'll change my mind about some minister who'll grab the grabs and shovels, but no matter what hearings he says, where he falls, he falls. Against!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u215	Explanation of Mrs Jelka Godec's voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u216	Your Honor, thank you so much for saying that again. Yeah, it's late, but this is the National Assembly, this isn't a lecture hall, where it's been processed for six hours and it's going home. Everyone here can express their opinions. Opinions are different, that's what you're asking us to do, and that's why things are taking so long. If everyone thought the same thing, I think we'd go home after two hours today, raise our hands and walk, so I don't know what the problem is. You have a coalition, you have votes, I don't know why you're afraid of not getting a government today. You'll get it, of course. And I hope you will begin as one of the Members of Parliament said, immediately, in 15 minutes, when you leave this room. I'm a little worried about this coalition of yours. The old guard, or the customers who have been in Parliament for some time now, Desus and SD, is talking about how everything needs to be forgotten again, let's start again, and if I didn't know you, I would say that you are the new faces, not the SMC. I really want to, no joke, because Slovenia wants things to go on, but look, these were my first hearings in the National Assembly and I have been working in education for 20 years and that my lady can't answer one question in six hours, and she's from school, and that the coalition asks me to stop asking questions because it's not going anywhere anymore, and that they've been on other committees. Look, I'm just thinking with my head, I can't support it, not on the party line, because I've been on the hearings. And that is why I am voting against it. Maybe I could support some of the candidates, some of them were good, I didn't listen to them, but what I was listening to, I can't support. I'm surprised the coalition supports this, considering they asked me, "Not anymore!" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u217	Explanation of the voice of the Magi. Anzeta Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u218	Thank you. The present and future government! Look, I'm saying I won't support this government, and I think so, with full consciousness. Given everything we've heard and everything, we've experienced at this time. I will not support this government because I hear that some ministers are only a third choice. I will not support this government because I hear that the coalition treaty is largely prescribed by the Member of the United Left, on its facebook website. I will also not support this because there is no Mr Dobovsk in this coalition. You said, among other things, when colleague Dobovšek decided not to be minister, that at least your choice of new interior minister as colleague Dobovšek would be so good, but you have offended your colleague Dobovšek. I think colleague Dobovšek is, I say, significantly better. Nor will I support this because you do not allow Comrade Dobovšek to occupy this city as a competent person by holding his vote for the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. Worst of all, today we have heard the funeral of the ethical standards with which you won the elections. You've relativized them. You said from today on, we're talking about ethical engagement. So even if we break the law, if we strive for ethical standards, we are right and we have support. I think so, and so I say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u219	Explanation of Mr Andre Couch's voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u220	Thank you again for the floor, Mr President. When I saw the results of the elections in the National Assembly on 13 July, I somehow hoped, as a citizen, for a new policy, of course, what Mr Cerar always said, that these would be some new times, new standards, but when I look back a few months later and compare what and how it was under the government of Alenka Bratušek, it seems to me that we had the same government of Alenka Bratušek, except that the President of the Second Government is the President of the Government. You said yourself that in the field of health you would introduce a new, undefined tax. And it will probably be in your interest that the number of payers of this fee will, of course, be as high as possible. And here I can't say anything but a clean attack on the middle class. Today, many have discussed this, about your fiscal policy, of course, welcomed it, but I hope that you will not increase the revenue at the expense of raising taxes and inventing new taxes. In your coalition contract, you seek to introduce a real estate tax, and let it still be thought out, how moral, this is an attack on the countryside. That's why I can't support your government. And if you do not replace the Slovenian proposal for a member of the European Commission after the government's confirmation, you will lose all integrity. Please do not behave as you did in your response to our discussions and take responsibility. Members of the European Commission could be invited by your government as soon as it is confirmed, but it is obvious that this has been done by some political authority in the two-thirds majority of the National Assembly. Don't fool, don't lie. On the one hand, lying and moralizing on the other hand will not bring new times, nor will economic growth.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u221	Explanation of Mr. Zvonk Lach's voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u222	I can't support this government either. At the hearings, I heard five candidates, four new and one former minister. Even this one never convinced me that it would go any different than it did now, after the snail. But we all know that we need to move from sluggish speed to supersonic speed if we are to save this Slovenia. Those four new candidates, yes, I had to choose the questions so they wouldn't be too difficult. Some of them felt sorry for me for just going into such a position that they landed. It was heard here that one of you was bragging about the candidates, and one of us was holding them back. You who praise them, you don't know them, we listened to them and you. You're new here, but we've been here a long time and we know the work of ministers and Members. And who better to believe — us or you? You will choose them, and you will be responsible for their work. I don't see any step, I haven't heard from these candidates that what needs to change has to be changed, for what you got in the elections, even the votes of the voters. And I really wish the President of the government good luck, as the former president of the country said: "Dream today, and tomorrow is a new day."
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u223	Explanation of Mrs Anita Kolesh's voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u224	Dear Prime Minister, I address you above all. Of course, I will vote in favour of this government that you will run. It was said earlier about some "rural boys" who couldn't support this government. I have a friend from the country, a country boy who voted for you, voted for a SMC client, and who told me the one who fell out of his hands doesn't deserve lunch. I think there's been a lot of distaste for some people today. After 21 times 3, 4 we heard the same thing, so we would have been in the chest three hours ago. But let this not disarm us, for we are not humiliated, as it was said, we are even more in the folds, so that we are with you and this government. For as much as each other as any other side knows very well that we are in the last place.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u225	Any other explanation for the voice? I'm going through the list. An explanation for Mrs. Erika Deklava's voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u226	Thank you for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Honourable Commissioner, colleagues and colleagues! Of course I'll support this government. Also because I'm a member of the Mir Cerar Party. Above all, I will support it because I believe that Dr Miro Cerar has chosen a good team because I know that Slovenia needs an operational government, a government that will work. Unfortunately, we cannot only deal with the mandate of one Member. And I will also support the government because I can no longer criticize people who have not even begun to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u227	Explanation of Dr. Vinko Gorenak's voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Nothing's happened since I got here. Of course, I will not support the government, but mainly for the reason that the Word of the Word would probably be right for you to play this song at the government's first session, because that's obviously how it's going to work. One is words, the other is actions. We listened to Mrs Bratuška, Mr Jewish, who said, "It is totally unacceptable that she should be Commissioner." Mr Han: "It is unacceptable for me to be Commissioner." Mr. Jursha: "This is completely irresponsible." Mr. Erjavac: "She has committed a crime." Bravo. In half an hour, you'll all be sitting at the government meeting. None of you will open this darkness. You see, these are the words of the word, but the actions are completely different. Is that right?Oh, my God! So this is one of the reasons why the government cannot be supported. The President of the Government, too, was very clear when I said that he had a chance, five minutes after the government's meeting, to call off or change this decision in a few minutes, he was nodding, which, of course, is clear that he had no intention of doing so. So you have words on one side, and on the other side there are acts. The word is vast and the actions are different from the words. And that's the reason why this government doesn't show trust. However, it does not show trust, of course, because those who represented or represent some integrity, which also have something to show in Cobiss, then they have fallen away, and those who have broken the laws, Mr Cerar, have come. Don't you? Mr Klemenčič has come, who has violated the law and has fallen away from another gentleman, this is Mr Dobovšek, who has much to show for, but then is not suitable for a team that, of course, has a hymn or a song of the Word of the Word. But the hymn won't sing for long. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u229	Any other explanation for the voice? I'm going through the list. Explanation of Mr Franz Jurša's voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u230	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I have already said twice today that I will support this government personally as well as our parliamentary group. In explanation of the voices of individuals, many words were spoken, some were offensive, some were not, they were encouraging, and some were literally lying. And Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you lied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u231	I'm asking if there's any other explanation for the vote. I can see it's gone. That is why we are moving to the vote. We are voting on the proposed decision as I have explained it. We're starting the vote. 85 Members and Members are present. The vote was 54 and 25. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 25.]] On the basis of the outcome of the vote, I find that ministers and ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are appointed. [[Applause]] I invite ministers and ministers to occupy the seats dedicated to the Government in the Chamber. I congratulate ministers and ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on their appointment and wish them a successful ministerial duty! I ask the newly appointed ministers and ministers to swear before the National Assembly in accordance with Article 113 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The first one will be sworn in by the Magus. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u232	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u233	The next one will be sworn in by the magus. Violeta Bulc, Minister without a Resource, responsible for the development of strategic projects and cohesion. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u234	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength to the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u235	The following will be sworn by Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u236	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u237	The following will be sworn by Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u238	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u239	The next one will be sworn in by the magus. Ms Vesna Györkös Žnidar, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u240	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u241	The next one will be sworn in by the mag. Goran Klemenčič, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u242	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u243	The following will be sworn by Mrs Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u244	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u245	The following will be sworn by Dr Anja Kopač Mrak, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u246	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u247	The following will be sworn by Mr Boris Koprivnikar, Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u248	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u249	The following will be sworn by Mrs Irena Majcen, Minister for Environment and Space. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u250	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u251	The next one will be sworn in by Dr. Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u252	I swear that I will respect constitutional order in my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u253	The following will be sworn by Mr Jože Petrovič, Minister for Economic Development and Technology. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u254	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u255	The following will be sworn by Dr Stanka Setnikar Cankar, Minister of Education, Science and Sport. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u256	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u257	The following will be sworn by Mr Janko Weber, Minister of Defence. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u258	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u259	The next one will be sworn in by the mag. Dejan Židan, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u260	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u261	The last one will be sworn by Mr Gorazd Žmavc, Minister without Resor, responsible for the area of relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian national community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u262	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-18-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u263	Because they're MPs. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar and Members Karl Viktor Erjavec, Janko Weber and Mag. Dejan Židan appointed Minister and Ministers, in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members, they are temporarily unable to perform their duties as Members. I will immediately inform the National Election Commission and ask the assembly to inform which candidates will replace that Member and Members in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members. On the basis of a notification from the State Election Commission, the Mandate-Electorial Commission will prepare a report and propose approval of the mandates to the National Assembly and report on its findings to the assembly. The Member and Members appointed as Ministers and Ministers are temporarily unable to perform their duties as Members, so the National Assembly is informed of the following conclusions. First time. On the basis of the first paragraphs of paragraphs 20, 199, 201 and 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall be informed of the following decision: It shall be established that Janko Vebru, who is temporarily unable to act as a Member of the Parliament, for having taken office in the Government, shall cease to serve as Vice-President of the National Assembly. It shall cease to function on the date of the meeting of the National Assembly. Another time. On the basis of Articles 200, 201 and 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall be informed of the following decision: Members and Members who are temporarily unable to perform their duties as Members shall be deemed to have ceased the function of the Government. Juliani Bizjak Mlakar as Chairman of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, Karl Viktor Erjavac as Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Policy and Mag. Dejan Židan as Vice-President of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. Their function shall cease from the date of the meeting of the National Assembly. I invite the newly appointed ministers and ministers to the lobby of the large hall for an official photo appointment. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 3rd extraordinary meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m.
