ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 58th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Irena Tavčar, Mr Dragutin Mate and Mr Samo Bevk from 2.30 p.m. I invited the representative of the Council of State to the 2nd item of the agenda and representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the setting of the agenda of the 58th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Wednesday 19 March 2014, by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda of the meeting, so I suggest that the assembly set a agenda for today's meeting, as you have received with reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Before we decide, I ask you to verify the operation of the voting apparatus. Can we make a decision? We're voting on the agenda. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 58th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a law on the supplementation of the law on the real estate tax after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 4 Members and Members, with first-signed Joseph Horvat. The bill is at the 25th session of the 11th session. 3. 2014 treated the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Mr Marko Pavlišič will present the opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues, good morning! We agree in the Parliamentary Group on the purpose of this bill, but the proposed amendment is not necessary. The provision on the exemption of property tax owned by humanitarian organisations, including voluntary firefighting companies, is already in force. Forgiveness applies only to firehouses, which makes sense. In doing so, let me read an explanation published by Mr. Jošt Jakša, President of the Association of Firefighters: "Dear Comrades Firefighters, before a wave of malpractice is triggered due to the informative calculation of the property tax, which was sent by the Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Slovenia in the past days, I would like to explain. The Fire Organisation shall be exempt from payment of taxes in accordance with Article 50 of the Firearms Act. No tax shall be paid from fire-fighting and rescue equipment and facilities and fire-fighting homes except value-added taxes, customs duties, contributions and other charges — hence, fire-fighting homes are exempt from taxes. It's an exception if someone lives in this house, for example, a janitor. In this case, a proportional share tax shall be calculated. Even if the sent informational calculation Gurs now contains an information value for firehouses, this tax will not be paid for firehouses owned by fire companies." You can read more on your own on the portal fire extinguisher.net. This raises a clear question as to what was the intention of the proposer of this amendment to the law if even those who were to be subject to the amendment claim that this is not necessary. I would not like to speculate on whether it was just populism or also deliberate deception and an attempt to gain political points cheaply. I leave these speculations to others. However, the introduction of real estate tax has also shown very well that the Slovenians already have sufficient time to move forward to balance the budget on an appropriate, fair and proportionate basis on the expenditure side of the budget. If this wisdom had been able last year, property taxation could have gone much more cautiously. In the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, we will reject the proposed law and thus open the way for other urgent changes to the law – to unify the rate of taxation for all residential properties and to extend the time limit for regulating the situation in the records. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u3	Thank you, too. Mr Franz Bogovic will present the position of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u4	Good afternoon, distinguished president, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! The real estate tax last summer was the nightmare of those who predicted what such a prepared law would mean in implementation. What soon happened was that there were 80,000 signatories, people who understood what was wrong with this law. But for the coalition and for the government, I think that this tax is becoming more and more a nightmare, as well as for all citizens and citizens who have finally received doses, and in practice see what this law would mean. The law is obviously very wrong. He wants to be accepted too quickly, and there's a whole lot of confusion in him. This lack of clarity about firefighting is also one such mistake that needlessly disturbs firefighting. Last year, at the time of the adoption of this law, an amendment was adopted on the proposal of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, which introduced in Article 8 of the exemption the fact that all humanitarian organisations are exempt from payment. Finally, there is this uncertainty as to whether or not firefighters are in sight of humanitarian organisations. There are more reports like these that have been read. They also talk about other things, including different interpretations of this law. Therefore, I really do not see any reason why I should not have determined such a thing as was prepared by my colleagues in New Slovenia, with the amendment of Article 8 in the National Assembly. However, the coalition and the Government have decided, in accordance with their manners, to adopt this law, to allow for a change and an intervention into the law when it deems appropriate. Obviously, you, colleagues, have already found it appropriate and, through the Law on Mass Valuation, have also tried to bring these side-by-side solutions with which this law could be rectified. There was more than obvious that there was an attempt at a wrong law, so I am surprised that we did not all take advantage of the opportunity together and that, under the law that was in the procedure, and under the government law that could be drawn up by the Government, we would adopt a so-called hybrid law in which we would implement and legislate any changes that are already known to be adopted today. On Thursday, the Government apparently adopted changes in the real law, concerning non-residency and also deadlines that are increasingly moving away from us, but this amendment could also be enforced in this law if the will and willingness to talk, also between the coalition and the opposition in this Parliament, were there to be an agreement. Unfortunately, this dialogue does not serve the coalition, and I think that this law would be urgently needed. Given that the law, prepared by the Government, has already been incorporated into the procedure of the National Assembly, I hope that in a relatively short period of time it will also be decided in the Constitutional Court. Constitutional judges have taken a step in the right direction and the possibility has been given to send doses around the homes to see what is the real consequence of the introduction of this law, and we now have a whole range of shortcomings on the table, more than evident through the decision-making process itself. For this reason, it would probably be necessary, in addition to these changes that I now see proposed by the Government, to introduce this exemption explicitly, to write it down, that there will be no doubt that firefighters know, and to complement that, in addition to those where firehouses are owned by firefighters, even the homes in which the operation is carried out, this can be owned or owned by the congregation or by someone else – and that a tax on property from this humanitarian organization, which has already saved us several times in various situations, will be levied here needlessly. In my opinion, however, it would also be imperative to follow the words of the Minister of Economics, Mr Method Draganje, and also to add to that law changes concerning the taxation of craftsmen, and also what is unacceptable in agriculture – I think we should lower those rates, but I hope that the Minister of Agriculture will see this and suggest it. In the Slovenian People's Party, we regret that the coalition cannot make this effort to correct this law today with key changes. Apparently, we're gonna have to meet a few more times around this marriage in the National Assembly. [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] The law is to be fixed. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u5	Thank you. Mr Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u6	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The effect of the legal property tax has in fact shown its true face through the informational calculations we have recently received from natural and legal persons. In order to make a number of mistakes, not just on the part of the owners, the Government has also admitted, and these errors will have to be corrected. It will also be referred to the Constitutional Court, before which the procedure for the initiative of a large number of applicants is pending. This novel applies exclusively to the taxation of firefighting organisations. In this respect, I must say that in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, as soon as we were familiar with the first draft of the Real Estate Tax Act, government representatives were warned that firehouses should not be taxed. In particular, our leader, Franz Jurša, has been engaged as a Member and as Chairman of the Defence Committee, has been pointed out by many firefighters. Thus, we have already been assured in the coordination phase that firehouses will not be taxed. They maintain the applicant’s claim that firefighting organisations have also received informational calculations indicating both the tax rate and the indicative amount of the tax. However, the information calculation of Gurs is not a tax assessment decision which obliges the tax to be paid. The body which will assess and issue the decision will have to comply with all applicable legislation, not only tax, so not only the Real Estate Tax Act, but also the Fire Act. This law clearly provides that taxes are not paid from fire-fighting and rescue equipment and tools and fire-fighting homes. Again, firehouses are not subject to property taxes. If the tax authority had already imposed a tax on a firehouse, such a decision would have been at least illegal and any complaint would have been successful, since the decision would not have been based on the legislation in force. But if a fire company owns another property, whether it's agricultural land, business buildings or apartments, the latter will be taxed. With these properties, the fire company can freely dispose of them, sell them, rent them, and the like. Since the legislation in force provides for exemption from the tax on the properties of firehouses, we have not already supported the bill on the Finance Committee. We also believe that the fear of the proposalr is completely unjustifiable and excessive, and that it needlessly causes concern for people who are always willing to help us, our firefighters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u7	Thank you, too. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Secretary of State! In the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Jošt Jakša, Director General of the Directorate for Forestry, Fisheries and Fisheries, may also explain the law. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the end of the rule of law. We are all humanitarian, i.e. all pardoned, but the humanitarian organisation must be recorded as humanitarian organisations. It is likely that there is no Member in this Chamber who would not support the mission of firefighters, since it has been in the recent grip of the past month that they have proved that they are the main or often the only organisation capable of solving natural and other disasters. There is probably no one among us to support the taxation of properties owned by firefighters' organisations, but firefighters' organisations, ladies and gentlemen, have received informational calculations. What has happened since then? Nothing. And they'll get the decision, they'll get the bills. However, in view of the rejection of our Proposal for a Law supplementing the Real Estate Tax Act, which legitimizes the exemption of this property tax in the possession of firefighting organisations, that is exactly what will happen. The property exempt from taxation is listed in Article 8 of the Real Estate Tax Act and must be read. Article 8 of this Act does not provide for the exemption of a firefighter. With regard to the possibility of exempting humanitarian organisations, it should be clarified that the current Law on Humanitarian Organisations provides for a way of obtaining humanitarian status. Such status can only be obtained on the basis of a decision taken by the Ministry following an administrative procedure, and the humanitarian organisation must be entered in a register of humanitarian organisations at the Ministry. There is no fire organization in this view to date. The voluntary firefighting companies do not have decisions on the status of humanitarian organisations, but they do have the recognised status of a humanitarian organisation, the company Gasilska Association of Slovenia, by decision of the Ministry of Health of 9. 8. 2010 Although almost four years have passed since the issuance of this Decision, the Fire Association of Slovenia is still not included in the report of humanitarian organisations at the Ministry of Health. Since the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia will be based on the database in recognition of tax exemptions from the application, the Gasil Association of Slovenia will also receive a decision on the assessment of the property tax which it owns. The Government’s view is that fire organisations, including voluntary fire companies, should be exempt from tax on the basis of the interpretation of the Humanitarian Organisations Act. According to its interpretation, in the event that the status of the humanitarian organisation of the Armed Forces of Slovenia is recognised, the same status shall also be recognised for all organisations involved in such an association. However, the interpretation of the law is not a formal legal framework. Formal legal resources are the constitution, laws and sub-legal acts. Upon receipt of a decision on the taxation of property taxes on firefighting organisations, they will therefore not be able to rely on the legal basis for such exemption. For this reason, in Novi Slovenija we have tabled in the parliamentary procedure the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Real Estate Tax Act, by which we proposed to supplement Article 8 of the Law, under which the Firearms Organisation is exempt from payment of the property tax. Both the Government and the coalition parliamentary groups claimed that the law was unnecessary because the law was sufficient for its implementation. However, these allegations were not confirmed by the Parliamentary Legislative and Legal Service, and in the oral explanation of the opinion, it explained that there is no established tax exemption for firefighting organisations under the rules on the interpretation of the law. Let me remind you that the State Council has upheld our law by voting 10 to 0. Your Honor! Complementation of the Real Estate Tax Act is necessary if the firefighting organisations are to exempt the payment of the property tax. This is also demonstrated by the informational calculations of the real estate tax which have already been transmitted to the firefighting organisations. These informational calculations set the value of real estate, the tax rate and the measured amount of the property tax. Upon receipt of the decision of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, the organizations of firefighters will be liable to pay the tax, as there is no legal basis for its exemption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u9	Thank you, too. Ms Aleksandra Osterman will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! We have before us the proposal for a law to supplement the Real Estate Tax Act, which, with the first signed by Mr Joseph Horvat, has been tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats. We are in a lively debate on the working body, and although the novel has only two articles, we have heard why such a proposed amendment is not necessary. Regardless of all the arguments, we get the impression that there is more to the background than marketing and certainly more to the welfare of firefighters and firefighters. Why do we think so, Your Honor? The answer is very simple. The opinion of the Government given after the introduction of the amendment, the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service and the public record of the President of the Fireworks Association of Slovenia of 10 March 2014 all - how interesting - insist that such proposed novelties are not necessary because they are already established because fire companies will not pay real estate taxes under the provisions already in force. We have a law, the Firearms Act, which states in Article 15, paragraph 5, that voluntary firefighting societies are humanitarian organisations. In Article 50, the same law states that firefighting companies do not pay property taxes or prior compensation for the use of building land. If I read carefully, the first paragraph of Article 50 states that no tax shall be paid from fire-fighting and rescue equipment and from shelters and fire-fighting homes, except for transport taxes, customs duties, contributions and other duties. However, we also have already adopted the Property Tax Act, which in Article 8 speaks of exemptions, and humanitarian societies are exempt. Also, the same law does not provide for the termination of Article 50 of the Firearms Act in the transitional and final provisions. We all know that if one law is to restrict the other or to end the other provision, it must be written very clearly. Everyone, except those who don't want to understand. Your Honor! The Fires Act is extremely clear, and it is clear that voluntary fire companies are not bound to pay real estate taxes, not as humanitarian societies and not as firefighters. The proposed regulation is unnecessary, as has already been confirmed by the representatives of the Government, the Legal and Legislative Service and Mr Jošt Jakša, President of the Gasilian Association of Slovenia. They all claimed the same thing, that such proposed arrangements were not necessary. Dear colleague, dear colleague! I'm not going to guess why you put such a novelty in, whether it's just an unfortunate self-promotion or some kind of conjecture. This will prevent us from engaging and losing energy in the Positive Slovenia Group. You know that. You also know that it would probably be most elegant to withdraw the novel if not earlier, and when you get the necessary [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u11	Mrs Osterman, at this stage, it is not possible to argue with the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u12	where it was clearly stated that the novel was unnecessary. [[...]] And you didn't do it. Why? You know that better than anyone. Therefore, we cannot support such a proposal in the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. It is unnecessary, it is also spending tax money, even when we are talking about this proposal today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u13	Thank you. Mag. Andrej Šircelj will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u14	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! What a law! It's a mess. It's a mix-up before the law came into effect. Today we don't know who's taxed or who's not taxed. On the one hand, firefighters and fire companies are given informational calculations for the taxation of firehouses, on the other hand, we have different opinions, legal opinions indicating that one variant of a fire company is not taxed and the other variant is taxed. We have been in the Slovenian Democratic Party since the first moment this government, the government of Alenka Bratušek, brought this law to the National Assembly, against such a law. This is a system tax and a system law, and it is unacceptable that such a law is adopted following reduced or urgent procedures. Chaos is here and chaos is also on geodetic administrations, where many people solve their problems by standing in ranks and begging and asking government officials to do anything. We have always been in the Slovenian Democratic Party and will always be in favour of tax laws and the remaining laws being clear, ensuring certainty and transparency. As today's debate shows, and as shown by initiatives to amend legislation, the Real Estate Tax Act is not like that. Since it does not provide certainty, it does not provide legal certainty for taxable persons. And since the law does not have provisions under which a taxable person, including a fire-fighting company, can appeal to the decision, in particular to the part that establishes the tax base – and now there is something to do with another law, the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate – and since there is no possibility that the complaint would be effective under Article 26 of the Constitution, the legal security of taxable persons is less. And since the legal security of taxpayers is less, in the Slovenian Democratic Party we support any solution that increases the certainty, transparency and legal certainty of taxpayers. In addition, we support solutions that exempt firefighting companies from property taxes. We know it's a special law on firefighting. However, this Fires Act does not stipulate whether or not fire companies will pay taxes. It determines the operation of firefighting companies, and if we find out how fire companies are financed and what role they play in our country for several decades – and we want them to do so in the future – then there is no reason for firefighting companies to pay the property tax. For this reason, we also provide substantive support in the Slovenian Democratic Party that firefighting companies are exempt from payment of this tax in full. The fact is that the question is whether this law will come to life or not, especially because we are waiting for a decision by the Constitutional Court. However, regardless of what this decision will be, the law should clearly and unequivocally state that firefighting companies are exempt from property taxes. We therefore support the amendment of Article 8 of the Real Estate Tax Act in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u15	Thank you, too. Dr Ljubica Jelusic will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u16	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Nice hello to you all! We have already been in the Group of Social Democrats in adopting the Real Estate Tax Act among those who have sought to relieve the tax burden on firefighting organisations. We believed the Government's explanation that it was not necessary to extend the set of exemptions provided for in Article 8 of the Real Estate Tax Act, since the first paragraph of Article 50 of the Firearms Act, which had already been cited here, would be respected at the time of the real estate tax, and this said that taxes were not paid from the fire-fighting and rescue equipment and tools and fire-fighting homes, except for certain exceptions. We have not overlooked the second paragraph of the same article, which states that the Government shall specify in more detail fire-fighting and rescue equipment, tools and fire-fighting homes referred to in the preceding paragraph. This second paragraph clearly states the existence of a sub-law. From the opinion of the Government on the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Real Estate Tax Act of 20. 2. In 2014 it follows that the Government now refers to the status of the humanitarian organisation, which is held by the Gasilian Association of Slovenia, as the basis for the exemption of the property tax, which is now referred to in Article 8, paragraph 4, of the Real Estate Tax Act. It is the status of a humanitarian organisation acquired under another law. Not according to the article in the Fires Act that the Fires Association is a humanitarian organisation, but under the Humanitarian Organizations Act. This fact strengthens us in the belief that when the Government adopts the Real Estate Tax Act, it has not carefully considered whether the written provisions of the Firearms Organisation will actually exempt this tax or not. The opinion also does not contain a clear answer as to whether firehouses will be exempt from tax because firefighters are humanitarian organisations or because article 50 of the Firearms Act is respected. From the point of view of implementation of the Real Estate Tax Act, this should be more precisely defined in our view. We would also draw attention to the Government's position in the above-mentioned opinion, which states that all firehouses of the property tax will be exempt. Other properties owned by professionals, I would stress, however, that professional fire brigades performing professional firefighting services are not exempt from real estate taxes. The government is likened to other public services. Social Democrats believe that the way in which public service is carried out when it comes to humanitarian action, whether voluntary or professional, cannot be the basis for a distinction between organisations in relation to property tax. In fact, if we take a closer look at other humanitarian organisations, we will see that everyone, in particular at the headquarters of the organisations, has some professional staff, and therefore there is no difference in the taxation. In view of the fact that, in the course of the examination of this law, the parent worker assessed that the Government’s explanation of the exemption from property tax in the case of firefighting organisations was sufficiently convincing, the discussion on the amendment of the law should therefore be concluded. We believe, however, that this issue should be dealt with more unequivocally due to the application of the law, in particular in the light of the legal basis for the exemption – Article 50 of the Firearms Act or Article 8(4) of the Real Estate Tax Act – which we expect from the Government in further procedures for the enforcement of the Real Estate Tax Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u17	Thank you, too. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. On the day-to-day basis, this is for a re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Access to Information of Public Meaning. The State Council is at the 9th extraordinary session of the 13th. 3. 2014 requested that the National Assembly, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, decide again before publication on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Access to Public Information. To explain my request, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Mr Jank Pożnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u18	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, the rest are present. The proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Access to Public Information, adopted by the National Assembly at its 22nd meeting on 6 March, extends, inter alia, the range of undertakings under the Act on Access to Public Information. However, at the time of the legislative procedure in the second and third readings, it has been shown that individual provisions of law in the public and open sector do not follow the purpose and objectives of the law in full, namely, the public publication of data or information directly related to bad loans transferred to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. This part should also include those bad credits from credit rating groups D and E that have not been transferred to a bad bank but remain in these state-owned banks. In the case of bad credits, it is a huge financial and social damage and actions that seriously jeopardised the Slovenian banking system. Taxpayers and taxpayers have the right to know which companies are actually debtors of all taxpayers in the Republic of Slovenia, what amounts of credit these are and on what basis they have been granted. Bad loans are an enormous financial damage, it is a real crater in the Slovenian financial system and actions that seriously endangered the Slovenian banking system. Taxpayers and taxpayers are interested in public publication due to recapitalisation and there is therefore a dominant public interest in disclosing certain data relating to bad bank loans if they are subject to measures by the State or Bank of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of the financial system or are subject to measures under the Act on Measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. This is particularly important because large financial resources have been invested in the recapitalisation of banks. Therefore, transparency of operations is essential, not only for the Bank Claims Management Company, but also for all recapitalised banks themselves. There is no real reason to distinguish between the bad loans that have been transferred and those that belong to the same bad rating group D and E and have not been transferred to the Bank's Claims Management Company. We have before us the opinion of the Government on the request of the State Council that the National Assembly decide once again on the amendment of the Public Information Act. But this opinion does not speak in a single sentence of why the State Council voted veto. In this view, the government praises the law for its good. But that's not the point. Much of what is said in this opinion is true, and the veto has not been cast because of what is good in this law, but because of what is not in this law, it should be. The law is also an opportunity to set out in it which discusses the disclosure of bad loans that have not been transferred to a bad bank. We need the law and we do not oppose it as such, but the Council of State has no possibility of proposing what you and the amendment have almost confirmed. Therefore, it has once again been shown that the State Council should have the option of so - called fourth reading. That's how you know it, and there's no other veto. It is clear to all of us that the issue of bank hole and bad loans is more current and painful for all taxpayers and taxpayers than ever. Therefore, the requirement to supplement this law is understandable. The Council of State hopes that the law will be amended and applied as soon as possible in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u19	Thank you, too. The request was addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. I give the floor to Ms Kristina Valenčič, Vice-President, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! At its 29th emergency meeting on Friday, on 21 March, the Committee of the Interior, Public Administration and Local Administration addressed the request of the Council of State to re-decision the National Assembly on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Access to Public Information adopted by the National Assembly at its 22nd meeting on 6 March 2014. The request is published on the website of the National Assembly in the Rapporteur of 13 March. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and of the opinion of the Government. The representative of the State Council did not present a written request and it follows that, in their view, a number of questions were raised during the second and third reading of the legislative procedure in the National Assembly on public accessibility for basic data on bad credits, whether they were transferred to the Banks Claims Management Company or not. The Council of State proposes that the National Assembly once again decide on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Access to Public Information in particular in order to reduce the risk of abuse, corruption and clientism, as we have seen in the past by granting bad credits. The representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, Mr Boštjan Šefic, said in his presentation of the written opinion of the Government that, in their opinion, the reasons for the State Council's request for re-decision on the law were not justified. Moreover, the State Council does not oppose the text of the law and its solutions. They only propose to supplement provisions relating to loans that have not been transferred to a bad bank. It suggests that the law be reconfirmed. In its presentation of the written opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that the State Council's observations related to questions related to the assessment of the substantive suitability of the regulation, which was not included in the law, but should be considered by the State Council. However, the questions thus identified go beyond the scope of the tasks of the Legislative and Legal Service as set out in Article 27 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and the Legislative and Legal Service is therefore not defined until those reasons are stated. The discussion was supported by the members of the Committee. It was pointed out by Members that a new law would have to be drawn up in a short time, including the amendments proposed by the Council of State in its request for re-decision. The Committee adopted, by a majority of the votes of all members, that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Access to Public Information was appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u21	Thank you. Dr. Gregor Virant, Minister of the Interior, will present the Government's opinion as a bill-maker.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The government proposes that this law be supported by the procrastination veto of the State Council. This is an extremely important law that has brought into companies owned by a majority of the state or municipality what has been applicable to the public sector since 2003, namely transparency or the public sector of business. In 2003, the basic SDIJZ, which introduced this public for state authorities, local authorities, public institutions, public agencies, public funds and so on, was adopted, and we all know that much less money is flowing in this part of the public sector than in that part of the state-owned economy. According to some estimates, it is worth more than €10 billion. Millions of dollars in these companies are turning, and the time is right to also introduce transparency in this business. What do we get by marriage? We receive the absolute public of all donor, sponsoring and advisory contracts. We receive absolute publicity of all data on salaries, ratings, departures and personnel matters – for example, data on the fulfilment of the conditions for members of supervisory boards and members of administrations – and we receive all data on the expenditure of these companies, and these companies have the opportunity not to disclose information in exceptional cases if they prove that this would jeopardise their competitive position. It is said that they also have so-called "way out" in such situations. The law, as assessed by those who have participated intensively in its creation, is the Information Commissioners and the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, reduces corruption risks and ensures more responsible treatment of state assets. We all advocate that state property be managed more effectively, better. We know that this law is not a magic wand, we know that what we need more is quality supervisory councils and quality administrations in these companies. Some believe that the final solution would be for the state to withdraw from ownership in these companies. In any event, the novelty of the SDIJZ is an important step towards improving the operations of these companies. Novela ZDIJZ also brings to the public so-called bad loans, key information on those credits that have twisted a billion-dollar bank hole in Slovenia. It's about data on who were the ones who approved the loans on the bank's side and who were the ones who received those loans on the other side. This is also something that Slovenian taxpayers have the right to know, because we all pay from our pockets to cover this bank hole through the permanent recapitalisation of Slovenian banks, especially those in state ownership. The point that remained open is whether the public should also refer to those loans under D and E, those bad loans that remain on banks and do not apply to the DUTB. We have several different views here. Some think it would be right, others think it would jeopardize the competitiveness of banks. But this is one segment, one piece of this law. This law brings such changes and so good, so positive movements that it is much better to confirm and then discuss details further. For the Government, this law is very important, and also to me personally, as you have seen from what meaning I attributed to it and what I have attached to this marriage. That's what I'm standing on today. I think we are adopting one of the more important laws in this mandate, and I wish and promise to support at least 46 Members and Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u23	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ms Jasmina Opec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, hello, all of you! Let me begin by saying that in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we regret that the amendment to the Act on Access to Public Information has not yet entered into force. Otherwise, we understand and support the arguments put forward by the Council of State in its request for re-decision, as we have cited exactly the same arguments ourselves. In this regard, I am referring to the issue of bad claims which have not been transferred to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, where the most pressing debate took place during the treatment of the adopted law, and this is entirely justified. However, it is necessary to take into account the fact that the implementation of the law with all positive solutions, including disclosure of claims transferred to a bad bank and responsible for the creation of a bank hole and data on state-owned advisory contracts, has been delayed for at least 14 days when the request for re-decision is being addressed. In the light of the fact that the law has been adopted since November last year, it is unacceptable that such important material has not yet been put into effect after 4 months of legislative procedure. By the way, we have already called for an urgent meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy in our parliamentary group at the end of this January. Some of us have suggested that the third consideration of the proposed law should be carried out as soon as possible with a view to its speedy adoption and enforcement. Let me repeat the arguments of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, which will lead to the adoption of a new Law on Access to Public Information, which will once again be supported – with a bit of bitterness, however. Members of the Slovenian People's Party have been positive about the bill since the first reading. We have also been actively involved in the drafting of amendments aimed at increasing transparency in the area of the past and current operations of banks, which have received measures under the rules on ensuring the stability of the banking system. In doing so, I have in mind the transparency of the claims that have already been and will be transferred from the business banks to the so-called bad bank. In our parliamentary group, we are pleased that we have also been partially opposed by the coalition, which, with the proposals of the amendments adopted in the second reading, has clearly defined the way and the system of public recovery of the claims transferred. However, as we know, it got stuck in the third reading. Both in the second and third reading of the proposal, we tabled an amendment with NSI and SDS colleagues, which would also allow for the public publication of credit information that is classified by international banking standards in group D and E and has not yet been transferred to a bad bank. As a result of the billions of recapitalisations received by the banks, it is only reasonable for these information to become public. Members of the Civil Code, who had drafted their amendments, also advocated a similar position. This position is also followed by the Council of State in its request for re-decision. There are many speculations as to why certain claims have not been transferred to a bad bank, even though they are actually valued as the worst. Unfortunately, none of these amendments have been adopted, for which there is no reasonable reason in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Regardless of our great disappointment at the conduct of the third-reading coalition, we will once again support the law under consideration in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. For the law brings too many good solutions to be rejected only because of one flaw. Increasing the degree of transparency in the functioning of business entities under the dominant influence of public law persons, in particular companies owned directly or indirectly by the State, which constitutes a law, is essential. Such an increase in transparency, in our opinion, will help to better manage the assets and financial resources of those entities, but we do not pretend that there will be no problems in implementing the law. Avoidance and references to such or other business and other secrets will undoubtedly be great, but at present we have no choice but to adopt, enforce and implement the law as soon as possible. The procedures for transferring bad claims from business banks to a bad bank are already under way and are all as transparent as before, so disclosure of information on bad claims and a clearer definition of disclosure procedures is of paramount importance for the further recovery of the Slovenian banking system. We are forecasting support in the Slovenian People's Party, but we are also predicting that, immediately after the law is in force, we will submit a proposal for a law that will follow the unacceptable amendments from the second and third readings, which will also allow for the disclosure of those bad loans remaining in banks. Taxpayers who contribute billions to the banking system have the right to full transparency, so in this case banking secrecy must not and cannot prevail over public interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u25	Thank you, too. Mr Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister with the Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we will also support the amendment of the Law on Access to Public Information, by which the obligation to provide such information is extended from public sector bodies to enterprises owned by the State or municipalities as well as to banks. Let me just quickly repeat the main features of the content of the law. Citizens will have the right to know what happens in state companies, how they do business, what transactions they do. The public will also become, among other things, all donor and sponsoring contracts, legal and advisory contracts, salaries, emoluments and other ratings of members of the boards and members of the supervisory boards. The bank’s or DUTB’s debt management company will also have to make certain data publicly available on the bad loans transferred to it. The public will become information about the Commissioner, the amount of the loan, who granted it, the insurance and the gross debt. These are loans classified in Class D and E that are more than 90 days late and are virtually so-called dead loans. We particularly welcome these provisions, even if we remember that we will spend as much as 4 billion taxpayers' money for the rehabilitation of banks. That is why we believe that taxpayers have the right to know what has to date been closed to the public. At present, the public has neither the right nor the possibility to look at salaries in state-owned enterprises, ratings, departures, sponsorship contracts, donations, counselling, legal services and the like. Since the proposal follows the principle of proportionality, which means that companies will not be obliged to publish all the data, but only the key information, there is a significant reduction in the risk that over-disclosure of data would harm business and banks. After 3 months of validity of the law, provisions will apply which define the publication of data by creditors and lenders, who has granted credit and insurance. Such publication is intended only for information on the acquisition of claims between the bank and the DUTB and the final gross value. After 6 months of application of the Act, provisions will be applied defining the mandatory collection and publication of data on payment transactions of public economic institutions, public undertakings carrying out an economic service and other undertakings holding a hundred percent national or public ownership. As we say, in the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, we will also support the bill this time. We have decided to renew our support for the proposal because we believe that we have before us the text of a law which, compared with other European countries, puts ours at the head of those in which the data is most transparent and accessible to the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u27	Thank you. Ms Ljudmila Novak will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u28	Your Honor! In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that the warning of the State Council is justified because the legal novelties have an important flaw that the law would indeed represent a significant shift in the transparency of the functioning of state-owned banks. These are so-called bad loans in state banks that have not been transferred to the so-called bad bank, and this is not public information after the law has been adopted. This lack of law has been pointed out by Members of New Slovenia at the time of the adoption of this law. In the third reading, we, together with the SLS and SDS, tabled an amendment to the proposal for a law that regulates this issue in substance, to which the Council of State draws attention in its procrastination veto. We have suggested that information of a public nature is also information on those bad loans in banks held by a majority of the state for which obligations are paid by default for more than 90 days. According to the media, some banks at the DUTB do not tolerate all bad credits most often simply because the public is not aware of the level of individual bad credit and who received it. This means the act of law, the primary purpose of which is to control the public over the operations of business entities with the dominant influence of the State, the self-government local communities and other public entities. Among these, it is particularly important to control the operation of banks owned by the majority of the state, as they were saved by tax money. It is clear that bad loans are still hidden in banks owned by the majority of the state, in such a way that they are not transferred to a bad bank solely because they are not exposed to public control. In this way, a favourable area for the following new recapitalisations of these banks is being established again, and so stories do not see an end. In addition, if we add delay with the start of bank sale procedures with majority state ownership, it is clear that the current policy of the ruling coalition is working towards repeating the recapitalisation stories in the future and that the recapitalisation accounts will be re-exposed to taxpayers. We need to cut this Gordic knot and tell the taxpayers clearly who are those political forces and grey eminences that are afraid of exposing bad loans in state banks. In this way, there are many irregularities and illegalities in the allocation of credits that are drilling a new bank hole and want to impose new recapitalisations on the budget, which means, in other words, on the shoulders of taxpayers. We Christian Democrats are convinced that in this respect it is necessary to supplement the adopted Law on Access to Public Information. As far as we are aware, the proposal for amendments and the addition of this law are already being prepared. Members of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will also support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Access to Public Information in re-voting, as we consider it an important step forward in disclosing information on the business of business operators with the dominant influence of the State, the self-government local communities and other public entities. We also announce support for the new proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Access to Public Information, which will also define as information of a public nature those loans where repayment of obligations is overdue for more than 90 days and which will be entered into the parliamentary procedure in the coming days.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr Jerko Čehovin will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members, and the rest of you! At its 22nd session, the National Assembly adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Access to Public Information. However, the Council of State is held at the 9th extraordinary session of 13. 3. Adopted the request that the National Assembly decide again on the law. The re-decision requirement does not, however, apply to the provisions contained in the law, but to those provisions which are not contained in the law, in the opinion of the Council of State. This is an amendment relating to the disclosure of data from those credit folders that are not and will not be transferred to the DUTB. We also did not support this amendment in the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, because we believe that it is a very attractive but also a very reckless provision. The non-acceptance of such an amendment does not in any way mean that it is not possible, together with the professional public, to seek appropriate solutions with the Bank of Slovenia, which will, on the one hand, enable disclosure of information of public interest for disclosure and, on the other hand, the composition and manner of disclosure of such information will be determined so that the banks do not cause additional economic damage and will have no impact on the stability of the banking system. Such a solution cannot be the subject of today's vote. The Rules of Procedure are clear: The National Assembly shall, on the basis of a request from the Council of State, decide again on the law without the possibility of supplementing or amending the law. This is probably what the State Council is aware of. The fact that a provision that does not contain a law would not ultimately have been adopted would have been a huge one, but particularly an unnecessary step backwards or in the wrong direction. The law brings a lot of important news and represents a huge step towards enhancing transparency and combating corruption. The main objective is to strengthen transparency of business, public commitment, accountability and integrity in the management of public funds. The main objective of the proposal is to help more efficient management of assets and financial assets of business entities under the dominant influence of public law persons, in particular state-owned companies, by raising the level of transparency in the conclusion of transactions. On the other hand, this will also help to create competitive market conditions, especially for small and medium-sized companies that want to operate or compete with companies under the dominant influence of the State or the local self-government. As we are well aware that corruption in Slovenia is a serious and real problem, it is imperative that the law enters into force as soon as possible. Although the whole story revolved around bad credits in the public and the media, there was virtually no talk about all the other novelties that the law brought, even though they were equally important or even more important. The wide range of commitments for the provision of information of a public nature, as well as a wide range of information to be disclosed to the public, are important novelties brought by law. Economic companies and other private law entities which are under the direct or indirect dominant influence of the State, municipalities or other persons of public law who have so far not been obliged to provide any information in the public domain will have to disclose the basic information relating to their business. Public data will thus be information on the type of transaction, the contractual partner, the contractual value and the level of payment and the date and duration of the transaction. Donors, sponsors, consultants, authors and all other contracts having the same effect will also be disclosed. The law also includes the Bank Claims Management Company, which will allow the public to have a look at the data from the credit cards taken over. It is therefore impossible to find a reasonable argument for the request of the Council of State after re-decision on the law, since it is a good law which represents an essential step towards greater transparency and the fight against corruption. In Positive Slovenia we will therefore re-vote for the law, and we will seriously question the practice introduced by the State Council regarding the adoption of a veto on a non-existent basis, as this very clearly expresses the legislator's ambitions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u31	Thank you, too. Ms Sonja Ramšak will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u32	Honourable President, Honourable Secretary of State, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, Honourable Secretary of State! The National Council of the Republic of Slovenia is at its 9th regular session of 13. 3. 2014 following the examination of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Access to Public Information, adopted by the National Assembly on 6. 3. 2014, adopted a request for the National Assembly to re-decision on the law. It is true, as the Council of State has pointed out, that, by amending and supplementing the Law on Access to Information of a Public Interest, there is a wide range of commitments, but unfortunately, in the framework of the legislative procedure, in the second and third readings, it has been shown that the individual provisions of the law in the public service and openness work do not fully follow the purpose and objectives of the law. This is a public publication of data or information directly related to so-called bad loans transferred to the Banks Claims Management Company. In the SDS Group, we warned the other opposition parties that those bad credits from D and E credit groups that were not transferred to a bad bank should also be included, but remain in banks. In view of the fact that these are bad loans for huge financial and social damage and for actions that have seriously endangered the Slovenian banking system – last but not least, the government of Alenka Bratušek and the coalition are re-planning the debt – it would be right to allow the public and the openness of the data or information directly linked to bad credits. On the contrary, as I believe the ruling coalition, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we believe that transparency would help to create competitive market conditions, especially for small and medium-sized companies that want to compete with companies under the dominant influence of the State and the local self-government communities, and in view of the remaining companies operating on the market, as this would create and strengthen a more comprehensive competitive business environment. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we regret that the coalition has not been able to place enough power and also these poor loans among those transferred to the Bank's Claims Management Company. Finally, this issue is about weighing between transparency and possible business damage to economic operators owned by the Republic of Slovenia. We therefore believe that public interest should prevail in this case. This would also increase public confidence in the actions of the Government, Banka Slovenije and also in the functioning of the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. In the case of bad credits, there is enormous financial damage, so we are citizens and citizens, or taxpayers, still interested in public disclosure of data on bad credits that are classified under international banking standards in group D and E, which means payment of default obligations over 90 days, and have not been transferred to the Company for Bank Claims Management. We do not support the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u33	Thank you. Mag. Majda Potter will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Representative of the Council of State! Let me introductoryly say that the Social Democrats will support the law by re-voting. Why we will support it is related to arguments that we have already explained three times, and I cannot avoid some repetitions in the fourth. At the third reading of the proposed law, which complements and amends the basic law, the Social Democrats reiterated their view that only a regular procedure is appropriate for a more extensive amendment of the law. This, however, prolongs the reception time, but is the only one that is appropriate. The draft law went through a prescribed procedure for intersectoral coordination of public presentations, where different stakeholders could make their views and comments known. The interested and professional public therefore had the opportunity to comment. This is a law that speaks of accessibility to information of a public nature, expected and urgent, as this is also an opportunity to verify public interest. The 2003 law already represented an important step forward in opening data for citizens and citizens, bringing us closer to an important objective, namely a country with state institutions in the service of people. It is important to realise that the functioning of the State institutions must be transparent, that the right to access information of a public nature is a fundamental human right, as also enshrined in Article 39(2), which constitutes a basis for open, transparent and more responsible action, allowing the confidence of citizens and citizens in the functioning of the State and its institutions to be restored. The purpose of the adopted novel is to set up new public information undertakings, to establish an official register of debtors at IJPES and to establish centralised and uniform pro-active publications of the public data of certain debtors, to which the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia will be responsible for public payments. Social Democrats are also adopting the objective of this law, which is defined as raising the degree of transparency in concluding transactions to better manage the financial resources of business entities under the dominant influence of public law persons. The solutions should help to create competitive market conditions, especially for small and medium-sized companies, particularly when they want to operate with companies under the dominant influence of the State or local communities. It is therefore a matter of ensuring a more competitive business environment. The second objective is to ensure the transparency of the remuneration of managers in state-owned companies and municipalities and to create conditions in which recruitment in these companies will be transparent. This should also lead to the objective of reaching individual leadership positions by people with adequate experience and quality leadership. All of this will also reduce corruption risks. The public sees that corruption in Slovenia is a serious problem, and that is why the Social Democrats support every legal provision that allows the reduction of corruption risks and is on the way to reducing the level of corruption. It also seems important to us that the public has access to data that reveal the responsibility for the extent of credits and the indebtedness of the country, and in particular to what we are covering with the recapitalisation of banks. It is therefore surprising that the State Council, which initially supported the proposed amendment of the law, decided to veto, since the possible rejection of the law would mean a delay in the amendments adopted. The argument that the non-inclusion of credits not transferred to the Bank's Claims Management Company with a D and E credit assessment is not sustainable because this is linked to Article 6a of the adopted amendment and the legislative procedure for the whole novelty, including the proposed supplement, should be fully implemented after rejection. If we want the expected data to be made available as quickly as possible and thus to achieve the principles and objectives of the adopted law, the amendment needs to be supported, and the Social Democrats will do so in the re-voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u35	Thank you, too. Ms Kristina Valenčič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Say good-bye to everyone again! Today is the last obstacle before us on the road to the entry into force of the Law on Access to Public Information, the last obstacle to be overcome together in order to allow transparent and responsible management of public money. The basic purpose and purpose of this novelty is simple: to increase the transparency of the operations of companies and other business entities owned by the State and municipalities. It is therefore a matter of solutions which, according to the National Gazette, are necessary, appropriate and proportionate to the weight of the consequences. In Slovenia corruption is a real and pressing problem, and transparency and the public are important tools for preventing corruption. It is right that we do everything we can to prevent political and interesting recruitment, clientism and the exhaustion of state and municipal enterprises, not only at the normative level, but also in the daily political or party work. Taxpayers contribute to public funds and must therefore have the opportunity and right to control the use of these funds. Economists themselves say that competitiveness and transparency are the basis of a healthy business environment that is not at a satisfactory level in Slovenia. It is important marriage solutions that can reveal in the medium and long term many things that are hidden today and should have been revealed long ago. The beginning of the consideration of the novel was promising. In its first reading, the novel received unanimous support and nothing pointed to the thorny path that followed until today's re-voting. Even less the veto of the Council of State was expected, given their support at second reading. All these manoeuvres in the Civil Gazette further strengthen us in the belief that changes are justified and correct. Sponsoring certain privileged elites, which has been the practice of certain state and municipal companies, must become the past. It is true that, even in the Civil Gazette, we believe that basic information on all bad credits must be disclosed to the public, and we regret that our amendment has not received sufficient support. However, this cannot be the reason why the novel would not receive our support, and thus all the solutions we believe in. As we have already announced publicly, we will persist in exposing bad loans, and I hope that, together with coalition partners or even wider, we will submit an appropriate novelty. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am sure that we have a common goal, and it is to work for the good of our people, our country. The solutions that this novel brings are solutions for our common good. The MEPs and members of the National Gazette will be unanimously supported by the amendment. We have over a billion good reasons for this.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u37	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Access to Public Information. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to adopt that law, the majority of all members of the assembly must vote, i.e. 46 or more. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to one. On the basis of the above, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 3 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and the general budget of the European Parliament and of the Council. The proposal for a decision was tabled by a group of 26 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this proposal, the Group of 26 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposers, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u38	Thank you very much. In the past days following the appointment of the Commission's anti-corruption leadership, everything in society has ended with what is happening around the appointment of the Commission's anti-corruption leadership. There was virtually no political party in the National Assembly that would not criticise this appointment, except of course Positive Slovenia. A fundamental question has arisen as to what now. On the question of what now, we are also trying to answer the applicants. We are trying to find solutions to the problem in which we came after the Commission's leadership was appointed to prevent corruption. One thing needs to be said immediately in the introduction. In the past week, Boris Štefanec was a fundamental problem, an unknown person from the vicinity of the Murska Sobota, who came to the head of the Anti-Corruption Commission, and the main observation of this person was that he was a member of Positive Slovenia. More or less we can trust colleagues from Positive Slovenia that he was an invisible or invisible member of this party. This was therefore the far-reaching problem of this country. But, ladies and gentlemen, why was there no problem in 2004? Why was there no problem in 2011? In 2010 or 2011, Mr Goran Klemenčič headed the Commission to prevent corruption. Formally, he did not have a member card of any political party, but his 10-year operation with Minister Kresal, who was then the president of one of the political parties – he was its secretary of state, and we could list everything back until 1999, when we detected his first political activities. He was a top-notch politician of left-wing politics. No one in this country was ever in trouble at the time. We could simply call this the transfer of Slovenian politics. He was, at least as far as our assessment is concerned, a significantly larger political problem such as Mr Stefanec. This does not mean that we are defending Mr Stephenac, far from it. We believe there have been many more suitable candidates, however. Something like that applies to Mr. Kos. He was also formally no member of any political party, and his signature is found under many letters, conclusions, recommendations of the Liberal Academy. But we know where this institution was. What solutions do we offer? It must be made very clear that recent events have also shown very clearly to the general public that these things are not being followed by the extreme political interplay and politicization of the leadership of the anti-corruption commission. Let me try to say our three proposals or some basic facts in this regard. The first fact is that the political parties of the transition left have consistently been concerned that loyal people would come to this place from the appointment of the Commission's first leadership to prevent corruption to the present. This time it turned a little different. The second fact is that all anti-corruption commissions have so far returned services to one political option, i.e. the left political options, by treating people in an extremely selective way, which I will talk about later. But there is another fact that is perhaps the most important. The Slovenian public doesn't know that. The Slovenian public is of the opinion that the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption is the only body in this country that deals seriously with corruption. However, it is very clear to the Slovenian public that Europe does not know the anti-corruption commissions. Again, no European Union country, except Croatia, Slovenia and Latvia, knows the Commission in such a composition. I will explain later what the countries of the European Union know. We've proposed a series of conclusions. In particular, we have proposed three conclusions. As far as I know, they were not accepted on the committee, but I will be able to speak about them later or be quite clear from the context. Let me further try to explain the first fact, as I said, that the Commission, in order to prevent corruption of its election, is always paying politically to those who put it in this place. I'm going to mention the last committee because it's more topical, but I could go further back. Mag. Goran Klemenčič as President of the anti-corruption commission has been involved in the rental of the NPU building, which is the reason why the forecasting procedure against the then Secretary-General, Mr Lach, is taking place today. Mr Goran Klemenčič was the supervisor, I stress, the supervisor of those who hired the NPU. When he saw it started burning under his feet, he left. It was clear in advance that you could read in the newspapers a month and a half or two earlier where he would go and that he would become President of the Commission to prevent corruption. That's what happened. Before leaving the post of Secretary of State, after reporting to the media, it was clear what would become – the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. What did he do for a year? Nothing. For a year, those numbers he had in mind, pushed them around, and couldn't detect any corruption, they didn't work. He was waiting for the Court of Auditors, and only then did he reveal that there was corruption in this case. I'm talking about an NPU building. I would like to draw up a famous report from the 8th of January last year, which concerns, above all, the presidents of the parties, but only to mention a few facts at the principal level. All the party presidents, except Mr Janša and Jankovic, have satisfactorily explained the assets. What is satisfying, only Mr Klemenčič knows. There's no such thing as marriage. One of the party presidents, the current president of the country, was not invited to discuss his assets. For all others, it has been satisfactorily explained, as shown in another case. What about these two presidents? This is where he did a very selective service, as it's called. He checked the assets of EUR 10,000, which is also a legal standard. This was mainly the case with Mr Jankovic, and we went to Janša for up to €8 for phone bills or until the technical examination of the vehicle in 2004, which was worth at the time I do not know how many tolars. Completely selective criteria. Also in terms of airline tickets, I believe there will be a talk about this today. When we wrote the request, these things were not known to the public today. They had not yet been, so the request also makes it very clear that he did not make the decision. If I also go on my case, to the referendum signatures, look at the selectivity of this gentleman. 48 hours of traveling signatures from the National Assembly to me was not a problem. However, 24 hours of return trip was corruption and an apology will be required for the public. The President's absolute bias. If I move on. The public is more or less aware of the problem surrounding the employment of Mr Tank's son and the daughter of Mr Janša in a company which is not at all state-owned or which is largely state-owned. That was corruption. Let's move on. Selectivity. What about the employment of Mr. Masleš's son in court? That wasn't corruption. The employment of Mr Masleš's son in the Municipality of Ljubljana was not corruption because he did not check it out. This is simply the case, if we plasticly tell them and banalize them a little bit, as if we are dealing with some inn where a innkeeper invites guests in his opinion, serves them according to his judgment as to what someone will eat, and eventually decides who will pay. That's how this committee works right now. The same applies to the employment of the daughter of Mr Türk, Mr Kučan, and the business of his daughter with the Municipality of Ljubljana. It's not being checked, and that's not why it's not corruption. As for other matters, however, the following must be said. A typical example is also Mr Stepišnik with 348 000 euros to his own company. This is not corruption, according to Mr Klemenčič. I believe that this justification is quite well stated, that this Commission is working selectively and that it is paying the services to those who have put it there. If I keep going. It should be said that no country in the European Union, or Croatia as a member or Latvia, if you wish, knows in its legislation terms such as: "There is a risk of corruption", "the possibility of systemic corruption", "corruption risk", "action has signs of corruption", "not satisfactorily explained". These are essentially absolute floscules, which are light years away from corruption, the real ones pursued by the police or the prosecution, and in the final phase, the judiciary. It must be made very clear that the perception of the Slovenian public is relatively clear, but this is due to media reporting that the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption is the only one in this world or the only one in this country, and the little-time deity that does what against corruption, but everyone else is not doing anything. But there is something to be said. I said that a few years ago. Perhaps Mr Klemenčič has brought an action which I do not know yet. The Anti-Corruption Commission is a mailbox where anonymous or signed letters are thrown, and from this mailbox these gentlemen carry mail to the police. At the police station, however, 95% are thrown into the trash bin because there are no suspicions of crimes, in cooperation with prosecutors, that no one will think anything, and 5% of things are passed on to the judicial branches of government. This is fictitious that the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption does not know how successful it is. It's not. Because the prosecution of corruption is not her job either. The prosecution of corruption is the task of the police, the prosecution and the judiciary. As far as Europe is concerned, let us say the following. Europe knows a group of countries where consultative bodies are of an unprofessional nature. Such countries are Andorra, Armenia, Cyprus, Georgia, Germany, Slovakia. They are also aware in the European Union countries of relatively autonomous services, which are professional but which operate within the justice or internal ministry and deal with anti-corruption prevention. Such countries are Austria, Belgium, Estonia, Iceland, Italy, Norway, Romania, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. However, the third group of countries is those where they have nothing, no anti-corruption services, but they have good police, the prosecution and the judiciary. And look at the fraction, between Denmark and Sweden, where there is at least corruption, as you know. Slovenia was far better, far from having the best situation in the area of corruption when it did not have this commission. With the existence of this commission, however, the situation is worse every year. What do we suggest? If I'm trying to sum it up briefly. We propose, for the first time, that all the repressive tasks that the Commission has to prevent corruption – some professors involved, say Dr. Dobovšek – are concentrated within the police and the prosecution, and that the Commission does not have such powers. Secondly, to transfer the supervision of the assets of officials to the Court of Auditors, as we have already proposed. Thirdly, the Anti-Corruption Commission creates an organisational unit that can be independent, but can be an integral part of the internal ministry and engages in prevention in this area, as was the Supervisor, who was excellent. More below. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u39	Thank you, too. The proposal for a decision shall be held at the 29th emergency session of 21. 3. 2014 treated the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as a parent working body. Since the Committee did not adopt parts of the draft decision after the discussion, consideration of the proposal for a decision was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to Vice-President Kristina Valenčič for the presentation of the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Today's the last time a nice greeting from this town! At its 29th emergency meeting on Friday, 21 March, the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered the proposal for a decision on the procedures for the appointment of a new Commission leadership for the prevention of corruption and the organisation and its work submitted to the National Assembly for its consideration by a group of Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, and published on the website of the National Assembly. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and of the opinion of the Government. The amendments were not tabled within the time limit and the SDS Group tabled proposals for amendments to the new preamble to paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of the proposal. On behalf of the applicant, the additional explanation was given by Mr Sonja Ramšak and explained the reasons for the convening of the extraordinary meeting by means of a proposal for a decision. The reasons are related to recent developments regarding the appointment of the Commission's leadership to prevent corruption, the politicisation of the appointment of members and the functioning of the Commission. Applicants believe that the organisational position of the PSC within the state administration, in particular its legal powers, is comparable to those of the European Union countries, only with some Western Balkan countries, which are mainly still on their way to the EU and are very low on the European performance scale in terms of the effectiveness of the fight against corruption. In the presentation of their written legal opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service raised the main comments and the specific comments to paragraphs 1, 2 and 3. It noted that, according to the proposed content, the appropriate formal form of the act had not been chosen. It also pointed out that the justification relates mainly to the request to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, where the explanation of the proposal for a decision and the reasons for the convening of the extraordinary meeting were not separate and their assessment was therefore made difficult. The following points were highlighted by the lack of expression and ambiguity, which, to a large extent, are not reflected in sufficient explanations. In view of the fact that these decisions are essential in the area of anti-corruption, it also highlighted constitutional concerns. A representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, Mr Boštjan Šefic, presented a written opinion from the Government, in which the Government recalls that the PKK does not have and must not have the powers of the police and the State Prosecutor's Office, since Sui Genis is an administrative body acting independently and independently to strengthen the effective functioning of the rule of law and to prevent its threat by acts of corruption. The Government therefore does not support the transfer of the powers of control over the assets of officials from the KPK to the Court of Auditors. It also does not support the proposal for a stand-alone organisational unit within the Ministry, which will carry out preventive corruption tasks. The representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Secretary-General Nataša Kovac, explained that the functioning of the President of the State in the selection procedures was transparent all the time. All documents under consideration are also published on the website. The President of the State appointed the KPK leadership in accordance with legal powers, for which he also assumed responsibility. Cancelling an order against the will of the appointed KPK president could be legally problematic and could also give the impression that the cancellation was due to political party membership. The President of the State, in cooperation with constitutional lawyers, has already joined in drafting a proposal to amend the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, which he will forward to the competent ministry in the coming week. In the course of the discussion, the representative of the proposer expressed disappointment that the panellists and the selection committee of today's committee were not present because they could help clarify. Members who opposed the draft decision assessed the proposed material and the debate as an attempt to discredit the PKK and the proposal to abolish it. They considered that the KPK was necessary and that the effectiveness of its work was assessed by Members when their reports were considered on the competent working body. They agreed with the opinion of prominent constitutional lawyers and the government to demonstrate the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption to upgrade and enable the KPC to work more effectively and to improve the selection process itself. The Committee further voted on the proposals of the SDS Group on amendments to the Committee and on the proposal for amendments to the Committee as of 1, 2 and 3 points of the proposal for a decision which it did not support. He accepted the amendments to the title and to the preamble itself. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 128, in conjunction with the fourth paragraph of Article 125 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all parts and the title of the proposal for an act together and did not adopt them. This has also resulted in the conclusion of the hearing [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u41	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Boštjan Šefić, State Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior, to the Government in the opening explanation of the opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has drawn up a written opinion, and a large part of this written opinion has already been very well summarised by the Vice-President of the Committee on Home Affairs, so allow me only two more points in this introduction. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports the adoption of amendments and the supplementation of the Integrity and Prevention of Corruption Act with solutions to address the shortcomings of the current system, to upgrade procedures and to ensure equal and legally justified treatment of the debtors and to enhance transparency in the control of the assets and assets of the debtors in terms of prevention and appropriate sanctioning in cases where corruption has been detected in the management of public funds. The Government also supports the adoption of amendments to the law in order to define in more detail the selection procedure of the members of the Senate of the Commission. According to the Government’s assessment, the current procedure allows for transparency of the selection process itself. International institutions such as GRECO, OECD and Transparency International also assess the legislative framework for the regulation of integrity and the prevention of corruption in Slovenia as appropriate. The Government does not support guidance or reflection on the possible transfer of supervisory powers over the assets of officials from the KPK to the Court of Auditors. The current regime has proven to be effective and appropriate after experience, and has been assessed as such by the European and international institutions already mentioned. The added powers to the Court of Auditors, possibly taking into account the current extensive and important competences of the Court of Auditors, would probably also require a substantial human resources strengthening of that body and, consequently, an increase in the financial resources for its operation. Additional jurisdiction, control of the assets of the debtors under the proposed law, which means control of private, non-disclosure funds, would change the purpose and mission of such an important independent body as the Court of Auditors. Finally, allow me to make a final assessment to the Government that this commission is undoubtedly necessary, as the Supreme Supervisor in the field of combating corruption and a type of guarantee for ensuring the integrity or prevention of the exploitation and abuse of public functions, and from this point of view, as also decided by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia in 2007, is necessary in order to implement the rule of law set out in Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitution also requires the prevention of corruption, as corruption threatens the rule of law and the trust of people in the most important state institutions and reduces political stability and social peace. The government considers corruption, clientism and the lack of integrity in the public sector in the Republic of Slovenia to be an important challenge, and therefore, in an institutional framework, a body such as the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption is clearly needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u43	Thank you, too. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The situation in the field of corruption in Slovenia is extremely worrying. This is a well-known fact. If we looked at the situation very superficially, and particularly biasedly, we would easily question the relevance of the existence and only the effectiveness of the Commission to prevent corruption. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that it is thanks to the KPK that we have come to understand how much corruption is distributed and anchored in a whole range of activities and at all levels of our country. For this reason, we are convinced that it would be extremely dangerous and irresponsible to abolish a body whose main purpose is to prevent corruption, leading to a higher level of the rule of law at this time. After 23 years of lack of transparency and integrity, of unlawful exploitation and of overriding responsibility, and after 5 years of economic crisis, which has fallen primarily on the shoulders of Slovenian citizens, it is an extreme but really extreme time to set the mirror for all leaders in this country who have led Slovenia to the extreme edge of the break. That is why we need the KPK so that customeristic and corrupt actions do not remain hidden to the public. In doing so, we would like to point out in the DeSUS Group that the tasks and responsibilities of the PSC must remain, in the future, mainly preventive in nature. The purposes of detecting and investigating offences under the applicable legislation are entirely the responsibility of the police and the State Prosecutor's Office. In our Group of Members, we also cannot agree with the proposed solution whereby supervision of officials' assets should be transferred to the Court of Auditors. This is a constitutional and legal system of dispute. As stated by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the extension of the jurisdiction of the Court of Auditors to control the assets of officials would go beyond the framework laid down in the Constitution, since such control would constitute control over private resources and not public, which could alter the Court's purpose as an independent body, which would also make the definition of its position and competence a constitutional category. The following would be considered as an argument for the termination of the KPK. In a report on the state of corruption published on 3 February this year, the European Commission assessed the KPC together with four other such institutions in other countries as an example of good anti-corruption practices, and the Supervisor project is particularly exposed. It is true, however, that practice has shown that changes and additions to the Integrity and Prevention of Corruption Act are needed to address the shortcomings of the current system, to upgrade procedures and to ensure equal and legally justified treatment of the debtors and to enhance transparency in the control of the assets of the debtors in terms of prevention and appropriate sanctioning in cases where corruption has been detected in the management of public funds. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we also agree with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that it is necessary to supplement this law in order to define in more detail the selection procedure of members of the KPK Senate. Recent developments regarding the appointment of a new KPC have shown that the existing legal arrangements for the appointment of the anti-corruption commission do not contribute to strengthening the integrity of the members of the Commission, which also undermines the integrity of the KPC as an independent and independent body. As has already been said, in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we feel that it is not the right time for us to even think about abolishing the anti-corruption commission at this time. It is true that they do not have such an authority in Denmark and Sweden and that at least corruption has been demonstrated there, but the fact is that anti-corruption institutions, given that they do not have problems with corruption, do not need it at all. Unfortunately, we still need an anti-corruption commission in Slovenia, because, at the time of our enthusiasm for the so-called Slovenian success story, we have forgotten the fundamental values of every democratic and legal country – honesty, integrity, impartiality and integrity. Therefore, the Slovenian success story has also deteriorated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u45	Thank you, too. Mag. Matthew Tonin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u46	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, hello! The fight against corruption is expected to be a focal point for both the opposition and the coalition. The Coalition has also highlighted the fight against corruption as one of its priorities in your new coalition treaty. The opposition convened a meeting of the National Assembly, at which we would like to set guidelines for better regulation and thus for the better functioning of the Commission to prevent corruption. That the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption needs improvements and refinements, we agreed on the last Internal Policy Committee by all, both coalition and opposition Members. However, the coalition on the Committee was not prepared to adopt any decision. Tell me how it can be that despite a clear common denominator we are not able to adopt at least one decision, at least it concludes that we are all in favour of amending the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. Dear colleagues in the coalition, I understand that you have quite different ideas about the functioning of the KPK, that you do not want the supervision of the assets of the officials to be carried out by the Court of Auditors, but your government has written in its opinion that the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption needs to be amended. This was our common denominator, and such a decision could be taken by the opposition and the coalition together. You did not want to do this, so today we have another one of those meetings when we discuss it in empty, because at the end of the debate we will not take any decisions. Dear colleagues, don't you find this underestimating to the National Assembly and to the Members as well? Is it not a senseless struggle for prestige, who has proposed something, as if they did not know that such conduct is the most demeaning of the reputation of the National Assembly and of our fellow Members? You have the majority. Decisions could be redrafted at will, but you prefer to reject them only to ensure that none of the opposition's proposals are adopted. All of this is becoming quite tragic, since we cannot accept conclusions even when we feel the same way or almost the same. For example, with the exemption of firefighters for real estate taxes, we all agreed, but since the amendment of the real estate law was proposed by Nova Slovenija, you were not prepared to write it into law unequivocally. Apparently, today's story repeats itself. We all know that KPK needs changes and refinements, but you are going back to the prestigious fight, who has proposed something and who is more committed to it. Everyone is alert to the urgency of the transformation of the KPK. The outgoing KPK Senate with Mr Klemenčič at the helm is expected to resign precisely because the KPK is under-qualified and because nothing has changed significantly on the basis of their work. At least that's what they said. Your government has written down that the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption needs to be amended. And that's exactly the kind of change we want in the opposition. Finally, the necessity of the changes in the KPK has been demonstrated and at the same time has been demonstrated by the last appointment of the President and the two deputies of the KPK. It turns out that the current procedure for selecting the KPK Senate is inadequate. For example, why was there no representative of the opposition on the election committee? Why did the selection commission, as the only suitable candidate, only propose Mr Boris Stefanec, among the 13 candidates out of whom 10 met the formal conditions? Why a vital difference or deviation from the nature of the work of the official world? The Official Council shall always make available to the chairpersons and to those who choose all candidates who meet the conditions. Here, not all candidates who met the conditions were presented to the President of the Republic, but only one. Why, for example, did the selection commission in the first and second rounds of the selection process decide to destroy all the ton records and magnetograms of the interview with the candidates? The only document that still exists on the work of the Commission is the report on its work and the individual minutes of the four meetings at which the selection committee met, if I dig up the notes we can call the minutes at all. The fact is that in it, the selection committee simply notes that Mr Stefanec, as the only candidate for the presidency of the KPK, is suitable and does not argue with a word of his decision. We ask Christian Democrats why the Commission then set three criteria by which it assessed the eligibility of candidates. Maybe just because of the formal decision? On the basis of these criteria, individual candidates are expected to receive assessments: excellent, appropriate and inappropriate. In doing so, we stress that the law itself does not provide for the destruction of documents or tones in this process. So that's what the selection commission decided on its own. Let us also mention the fact that the selection commission, as the only suitable candidate, unanimously assessed Mr Štefanec by 5 votes, but in its own minutes stated that the candidate had received 5 votes for appropriateness, of which 5 was appropriate. If we are more precise, the assessment of the appropriate commission in its work has not even been foreseen. There's something else we can't overlook. There was a panel member missing from the vote in a crucial vote, which took place at home, on the telephone. Given that it is one of the key institutions in the country, the Anti-Corruption Commission, we believe in New Slovenia that such a candidate should receive an excellent and not only appropriate assessment on the basis of all the criteria. How should we believe that the chosen candidate is indeed a person for whom we can rightly conclude that, on the basis of his work, conduct, conduct of his or her work, he or she will carry out his or her work lawfully and in accordance with the rules of the profession, as required by Article 7 of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. Unfortunately, the selection committee didn't say a word about these things. I do not need to continue to look at the intestines because the selection process has clearly indicated a type of problem. One of these is the party definition of Mr Štefanec, which the law does not explicitly prohibit, but because it is an extremely important function that deals mainly with politics – especially with the clients of this institution, if I may say so – it is crucial that the leadership of this institution is party neutral. Because if it is a party, then it may happen that, even though this commission will act lawfully, in accordance with the rules, fairly and just as it must, when it accuses a member of another political option, this committee will always be able to discredit this committee, and only by giving the leadership of this commission a political definition and saying that corruption has only been accused of being a member of another political option. If Mr Stefanec insists on his position, he will destroy the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, and we strongly hope that Christian Democrats will see and recognize what can happen to the institution if he insists on the position and that he will withdraw from the functioning of this institution, which, at least so called a coalition, does not wish to end. Only by withdrawing from this place will it allow this commission to continue to function normally and to exist. Christian Democrats stress that it is the task of the State to ensure consistent implementation of the rule of law in its institutions and repressive bodies. The Commission for the Prevention of Corruption is just one of the institutions that needs to be changed, so in New Slovenia we expect the earliest amendment of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, as announced by the Government, and we hope it will. Despite possible improvements to the KPC, we are aware that the institution itself cannot solve all the problems that Slovenia has with corruption and that only fair and independent justice can guarantee the rule of law, and thus the actual effectiveness of preventing corruption and strengthening integrity. Dear coalition, dear colleagues and colleagues, be active, take the initiative, propose conclusions, and above all please do not hold meetings without conclusions, because they are their own purpose.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u47	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group, Positive Slovenia will be presented by Mr Jerko Čehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. I just agree with my forerunner. Ladies and gentlemen, the rest of you are here! Three weeks ago, when we discussed the proposal for a law on public property of officials, with which the SDS wanted the Commission to take away part of its powers to prevent corruption and transfer them to the Court of Auditors, we predicted in Positive Slovenia that it was only a matter of time before the SDS would propose its abolition. But we didn't think this moment was going to happen so fast. If all the time the SDS spends preparing requests for extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly and emergency meetings of the committees and all the time that we are all working together to address materials at the meetings of working bodies, by not voting on anything at all, we would probably be able to resolve a number of problems that our country is facing at this time. Thus, we will listen again throughout the day, most likely, to the signs that will fly across the board, and in the end we will conclude the meeting without a single decision, a single solution or a single vote. All SDS requirements have one common point. In each of them there is a kind of mini-interpellation against individuals. Once upon a time, the former President of the State, the Attorney General, is next. Today, the former Commission's leadership to prevent corruption is clearly in place. What exactly does the proposer propose? The proponents believe that, at a time when it is already clear to us that corruption in Slovenia is a major problem and that, as a result, it is necessary to focus all efforts on finding solutions that will help to eradicate this phenomenon, the only solution is to simply put an end to the anti-corruption Commission. How do they argue such a proposal? It is justified by the thesis that in the case of the KPK it is a fugitive that other countries do not have. In doing so, they forget that such an authority is not primarily the case in those countries which do not have such problems with corruption. But the proponents are that you don't need a law enforcement authority if there's no corruption in the country, they obviously don't see the logic. Moreover, it does not claim to be a fugitive, since Austria, France and Latvia have a special anti-corruption body. In Positive Slovenia, we are convinced that we need a Commission to prevent corruption, but it is true that the organisation, procedures and powers that the Commission has to correct, supplement and change a lot. And these changes are already in preparation. A constitutional analysis of the proposed amendments, prepared by three prominent lawyers, is also available and will need to be amended and amended. Since this is an important law, it is understandable that it cannot be prepared quickly, but it is necessary to approach it with thoughtfulness and in close cooperation with the professional public. The government of Alenka Bratusek has committed itself to making changes. In order to prepare the changes, we have also committed ourselves to the coalition treaty, and we believe that the proposal for amendments to the law will come to this house as soon as it is ready to do so, in order to enjoy broad professional support and include all the essential solutions and changes that are urgently needed. There is no way, however, that we can share with the applicants the view that the best or only solution is to abolish the Commission in order to prevent corruption, and that is why we have not supported the proposed decision on the working body. Once again, with regard to all the findings arising from the SDS requirement, let me stress one thing: the President and the two Vice-Presidents of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption shall be appointed by the President of the State on a proposal from the Electoral Commission. We believe that the President of the country was aware of all relevant facts and that he also took them into account in his decision and thus assumed responsibility for the election. If, on the basis of this, the President of the Republic of Slovenia has assessed that the appointed candidate is suitable for the President of the Commission, it is only right that we trust his choice and give the new President an opportunity to prove his expertise and independence in the role of the President of the Commission to prevent corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u49	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the position will be presented by mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u50	Hello! I'd like to say good-bye to everyone! Thank you, too, for a very nice introduction, because what we are talking about today is the story of the so-called Commission for the Prevention of Corruption or the KPK, which is already in itself, in view of its actions so far, a very pervasive name, but misinterpretation is even more what has just been said – that it is a meeting without conclusions and that it is a pity that this is so. And that is exactly what the one who, by his vote, rejected all the conclusions and caused this meeting to be without conclusions. But I understand that you have done so in the coalition because you have a bad conscience, and old Slovenian wisdom says that bad conscience is a bad thing. There is nothing in Slovenia that is more misdirected than apoliticalism. Unfortunately, on the sunny side of the Alps, the transition failed, and that is why today all politics is here and politics is everything. If, in recent years, any institution has been told that it is apolitical, that it is purely professional, then sooner or later it has proved to be more political than the policy itself. The most tragic case, unfortunately tragic for Slovenia, is the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption or the KPK, because it is the institution that has become Slovenia of all development, which is the most successful government – not alone, but because of the policies that we have yet to come to – that has succeeded in replacing with the worst in history and thereby deprived the Slovenian of the quality of life and the opportunity for development. It's an institution that has incredible power. But the tragedy of this is that it's an institution that's supposed to be professional, and it's actually political, and that's why it's abused. It is interesting to see what an arch of disgust has gone through Slovenia, because Mr Boris Štefanec stepped out of the Party Positive Slovenia just before the present – obviously when it was already clear to him that he would be appointed to this place, if it were then politics. What exactly is politics? What was the KPK so far? And who's the one who calls it? If the President appoints – is he not a politician? The President of the country is also a politician, ladies and gentlemen, and even if the appointment is made by the President of the State, the appointment is political. By correctly using concepts that are consistent with or will be scientific. In my opinion, citizens should be extremely grateful to all of you who have participated in the appointment of the new leadership of the anti-corruption commission. Why? Because now it's clear why it's going. For one dump site of failed political personnel, and even in the past, there was nothing completely different. What was the KPK in the past? There one failed policy of another failed policy put him in a place where he then judged the corruption of all other politicians, and it was said that there was no appeal. We've read somewhere that there's only blue sky above him. In fact, the former KPK President was someone who had previously been Secretary of State, so he was politically appointed, and who had to leave the city that the paradox was even bigger, because of the biggest corruption affair in the history of the Ministry he was in, and who was then put in charge of the KPK, another politician who was no longer elected, the former President of the State, had also failed. Thus, we have exactly the same image of what the KPK really is today – a landfill of failed political personnel. In this case, it was nothing else. Someone who has failed elsewhere has run for office and, with the political support of his party or political allies, is the only one chosen, and this has then been given to the President of the country for confirmation. And this one named him because he was the only one proposed. Today, everyone is appalled at why the President appointed him, while they are calmly ignoring how we once warned in the SDS that the law is bad, that it is confused, that it is poorly written, and that it will have bad consequences, that it will be abused, and that this institution, called the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, will be abused. That's what we predicted in advance. You can go take a look at the magnetograms, even mine, if you like. The composition of the Commission is also not appropriate. We also drew attention to the inadequacy of appointing Mrs Melita Župevc as a selection committee, but then all those in the Orwell Orchestra 571 – you know, this is who warned Europe that if Slovenia presided over the European Union, it would be extremely successful – they would remain silent. Today, many of them are attacking the President of the State. Interesting, isn't it? Because of not seeing what really hurts them, because now finally the KPK masks have fallen. Now you can see exactly what this institution is. This institution is not apolitical. This institution is still a politically abused institution that has been used on the transition left to dispose of their personnel, which they then use or abuse, if you wish, to discredit everyone else. The tragedy for Slovenia was that this institution was declared callous and that it was triggered by a repulsion led by Dr. Virant, and under this cover, that what the KPK says should not be debated again and should be believed to have triggered the exchange of power and the last government, which the European Union as an extremely successful judge – there are articles about this, if you would like to bring them here – that was the government of Janez Janša in that year, replaced with the worst government in the history of Slovenia, which literally owes us new and new billions of euros every day, and it even makes public. By the way, do you know that Slovenian debt under the rule of Mrs. Alenka Bratušek or the Transitional Left has exceeded that common in the former Yugoslavia, of all republics together, so that there will be no mistake? Then it will be clear how far we are under this government. Therefore, it is understandable the anger of all these engineers, human souls, when there will be no more commission, which in this case the KPK is, to sell as professional, apolitical, those who have an extremely high ethical authority, but only a disposal of political personnel, which this case has now made very clear and placed this institution in the right light. Personally, I think the government of Alenka Bratusek has managed very little. In fact, the only success we see in the SDS is undoubtedly in the government of Alenka Bratušek, the fact that she was able to prove that not all of those who also on the transition left once said that worse governments than the government of Borut Pahor were not able to be. So you did it. The government of Alenka Bratušek is unquestionably worse under all the criteria, and you recognize this by yourself today. In recent months, however, the government of Alenka Bratušek has been able to prove two, above all. That the Real Estate Tax Act and the current KPK must be abolished immediately, and in the SDS we will do so if voters give us the right confidence to do so, we will be happy to do so. The real estate tax must be replaced by something that will be comparable in Europe and will help the development of local communities and protect their integrity. However, the competences of the PSC must be transferred to others for this effectively qualified institution, where there is also a hierarchy, the possibility of appeal, the possibility of legal protection, the possibility of anything that is only normal in democracy. And normally, in Slovenia, when we talk about the fact that no institution can give a definitive opinion, which is callous – all such institutions must be immediately abolished – that each branch of authority must be properly debated, monitored and kept under clear constitutional framework, so that the different branches of government are balanced, which applies to everyone, including the Constitutional Court. Everyone needs to be discussed, every decision. It is also appropriate to weigh everyone as to whether an organisation is the basis for its operation or any other appropriate matter and to adopt appropriate solutions. As long as we say that this is not being discussed and that this must be taken into account, there will be a serious problem with democracy in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! Initially, how do the Social Democrats see the SDS requirement for a general debate on the Proposal for a Decision on the procedures for the appointment of a new KPC leadership and organisation and its work? We see it as a variation on the issue of removing the Commission to prevent corruption and undermine trust in the rule of law institutions. Because the request for a debate, material and debate on the committee indicate that there are or are repeated thesis and statements or qualifications that could also be heard at a meeting of the National Assembly when we discussed the proposal for a law on the control of the assets of political officials, which was also prepared by the SDS. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has drawn up a comprehensive opinion on the proposal for a decision at the general level and on the individual points of the decision. It may be asked what is the purpose of the proposed agenda item, the accompanying material and the proposed points of the decision. That there is an internal imbalance or disconnect between these three parts is a fact. The request is based on an assessment of the Commission's inefficiencies in preventing corruption, and a proposal for a decision has been drawn from this which radically changes the powers and organisation of the Commission to prevent corruption. This was the core of the rejected proposal for a law on the supervision of officials' assets. This is inconsistent with the roof law, the Integrity and Prevention of Corruption Act. The applicants would transfer the repressive tasks to the authorities of the investigation and prosecution, i.e. the police and the prosecution, the supervision of the assets of the officials would be transferred to the Court of Auditors, and the anti-corruption commission would be seen as a unit within the Ministry of the Interior or the Ministry of Justice and would carry out only preventive tasks. There is doubt as to whether tackling corruption is a priority of this government and of the political parties of the coalition, given that the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption was adopted on 15 July 2011, at the time Borut Pahor led the government, and the commitment made on the necessity of upgrading the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. The Coalition Treaty also identifies the fight against corruption as a priority. Thirdly, a programme of measures by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prevent corruption has been published on the websites of the Ministry of the Interior. Let me remind you that the proposal for a law on public sector integrity, with the first-signed Mirano Potrče, was assessed as inappropriate on 1 October 2007. There was another coalition back then. If we are looking at a programme of measures by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prevent corruption, then it must be said that 15 key proposals are taken into account in this programme of measures to improve the situation or to limit the risk of corruption proposed by the KPC. The Government also followed GRECO's recommendations. It has been adopted and recently reconfirmed by the Law on Access to Public Information. However, the third part of the proposed measures concerns strengthening mechanisms to prevent the reduction of corruption risks and risks of conflicts of interest in public administration. Since 7 March, the opinion of three eminent lawyers who have examined the regulation of corruption or the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, which the Slovenian public has seen as an extremely pressing problem, has also been available on the Office of the President of the State’s website. The conclusion is that the Commission is necessary to prevent corruption. All three lawyers do not deny that the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption needs to be upgraded. The proposed amendments were also tabled by the Committee, but the proposed amendments to the basic comments of the Legal and Legislative Service did not take into account and therefore did not receive support at the meeting of the Committee, nor did the proposed decision. The debate on the appointment of the KPK leadership has in fact resolved to restrict the powers of the KPK or to eliminate the work so far, and we cannot agree in the Group of Social Democrats, nor have we supported the amendments and the proposal for a decision. Again, the debate will show that we cannot avoid arguing about who he is and who is not to deal with corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List will be presented by mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u54	Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! When the Commission's anti-corruption leadership has withdrawn so far, employees in this institution have warned that this action should be a red alert to the whole society. In the Civil Code, we regretted this act at the time and we regret it today. We see the Anti-Corruption Commission as an important pillar of the fight against corruption, which is a major problem in Slovenia. This is recognised by international reports, and we are also aware of this at home. We believe that the Commission has taken major steps in this area in Slovenia since the amendment of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption in 2010 and has therefore earned the confidence of citizens. However, there is still a need for major movements in the systematic prevention of corruption. The prerequisite for these movements is, inter alia, an effective operational and credible leadership of the Commission, which will enjoy the great reputation and respect of the entire Slovenian public. Leadership integrity must be at a high level because the Commission monitors the integrity of public function holders. Events concerning the appointment of a new leadership cast a shadow of doubt on the process itself, which has caused a considerable storm in the public as well. From the material of the request for an extraordinary meeting, we can understand that the Commission's proponents for the prevention of corruption as a single body should be removed or that its powers and tasks should be placed in other organisational units of the state administration. We do not support such an approach in the National Charter, but we agree that the additions to legislation in this area are meaningful and necessary. Let us recall that, at the time of the resignation in November 2013, the Senate stressed that they had been hit against an insurmountable wall and that they could not dig a tunnel through which they could sow the light with a shovel in their hands. In front of the wall, we can now light a campfire and wait, and in the meantime let our institution and other institutions of the rule of law, including detection and prosecution, break down and weaken. Those were their words back then. Seems like we've witnessed this in the last few days. In the Civil Gazette, we believe that a good basis for supplementing legislation is the analysis of proposals to amend legislation on the prevention of corruption of the Constitutional Law Institute. Three prominent constitutional lawyers find that if ever, then at this point we need an authority such as the KPK, which will be the epicenter of anti-corruption action. Constitutional lawyers note that there are currently no unclear conditions in the current law, neither for the President nor for the Deputy. They expressed doubts that college education and 10 years of work experience in the field of this education are not sufficient guarantees that the selected candidate is qualified to perform the function. Regardless of all the reports and analyses, it's probably not going to be that simple. Amendments to the legislation will probably not be enough, and there will probably be a thorny path to it, just as thorny as it was to the novel of the Law on Access to Public Information. If they are caught underfoot in politics at times, then those most exposed to corruption in this country experience pharynx, only this time not by nature, but by the lobbies and interest groups that have embezzled our country and the banking system in the manure of state ownership and national interest. The closer we get to taxpayers who are hidden in a corruption triangle of banks, state-owned enterprises and policies, the harder the way is. More and more, it breaks around those who expose this corruption, and more and more is pollen, which is growing, and they do not fall apart from themselves, but someone very skillfully throws them into the knees of those who expose them, forcing them to kneel. Whoever is involved in corruption in this country must obviously disappear, is the motto of those who operate from the background, whether it be the KPK or some kind of minister. In recent times, police progress has been evident in the prosecution of crimes, including economic crime. The seeds of this success were established by the establishment of the National Investigation Office. The current minister is obviously well aware that the police have the right conditions for the work they are doing better and have begun to show results. That is why confidence in the anti-corruption risk KPC and the police, who are increasingly being pursued, should have been undermined. The two major pillars of the fight against corruption are clearly increasingly disturbing for some. In the Civil Gazette, we will continue to fight corruption until the end, even if this means the active destruction of our client by privileged lobbyists, who are sued to public money through state-owned enterprises, advisory contracts and other mechanisms that allow money to flow into the pockets of corrupt local and state-owned accounts at the expense of the economy, health and education. Mr Štefanec, I am afraid, is unfortunately only a figure in this KPK discrediting game and others struggling with corruption. He is not guilty of what is happening, and it is unfair that he must bear the consequences. But if he really wants to help pursue corruption in this country, let him consider the situation, but let him not be president of the anti-corruption commission or a lawyer, but put himself in the shoes of an average citizen, and he will soon find out which move he would be best for the anti-corruption commission. In the Citizens' List, we will continue to make every effort to adopt and implement as soon as possible all 15 Commission proposals to prevent corruption that have been put in place to deal with systemic corruption. The first step towards this was already taken by adopting a plan approved by the Government this month. We also propose that a novel or new law on integrity and prevention of corruption should be prepared as soon as possible, as indicated at the Institute of Public Administration. If Mr Štefanec fails to see what is right, the first priority will be to seek out new vice-presidents, who hopefully will help restore confidence in the KPK. And to conclude: of all those who will be involved in this process, a better job is expected than the last appointment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Mrs Jasmina Opec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. The fact is that corruption exists in our country. The fact is, it's increasingly eating up our social system and leading to its collapse. And the fact is, despite the fact that we have adopted the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, every year, after various professional research, we fall on the fight against corruption. All these facts clearly lead to the realization that the existing anti-corruption system is not optimal and that we need certain changes that will produce concrete results. The fight against corruption must, in fact, not only appear to be one of our country's priorities. However, if we want this fight to succeed, we need to tackle it with thoughtfulness, weight and expertise, not populistally, and in the soybean of headlamps. It is certainly necessary to answer at the outset the question of what is the meridian criterion for a successful fight against corruption, whether it is the number of burdensome reports by the KPC or the number of convicted perpetrators of corruption crimes. If we don't answer this question first, we can do a lot of work and do little or get a result that is exactly the opposite – that the inefficient system of fighting corruption only strengthens corruption. Corruption is one of the most powerful systems in the field of crime with many such or other hunters, with influence on all social areas, often with strong financial backing and often intertwining. Investigating, detecting and proving these crimes in these two areas is extremely difficult and often involves difficult police operations, methods that only a handful of people know if we want to get enough hard evidence from their use, which we can then use for conviction. Too quickly informing suspects or those in these systems can lead to the destruction of evidence, the impact on witnesses, which will not achieve the final objective of the conviction. The sensitivity of this area should also be part of the KPC's policy of action. The KPK practice, where pregnant reports are publicly published with all the details, before any proceedings have been initiated and before evidence is collected that would be a solid enough basis for conviction, could constitute a step in the wrong direction or risk of destroying evidence that could be a key step in the process, thereby seriously jeopardising the conviction of these perpetrators. Corruption in our country will not initially plague such or other KPC reports. Finally, it will be plagued only by the conviction of all perpetrators and the finalisation of all links within the corruption system, including those individuals and those links that the PKK cannot influence, but can be influenced by the repressive authorities. Here I am thinking mainly of the connection to organised crime. The KPK can help the repressive authorities very much, but the KPK cannot be the authority that detects, prosecutes, proves and condemns the perpetrators of corruption crimes. That's why we have the police, the prosecution and the judiciary who have to do their job in this area with a medal. Another area in which legal changes are certainly needed is the appointment of the KPK Senate. The latest developments from the appointment of a new Senate to public issues and the question of the bias or impartiality of the PKK in the treatment of certain political officials are certainly not events that would be in favour of the fight against corruption and confirm the position of the Slovenian People's Party, which we had when we adopted the Integrity and Prevention of Corruption Act, when we drew attention to certain open questions regarding the provisions on the appointment and functioning of the Anti-Corruption Commission. Let us recall that, at the time of the adoption of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, it was because of a number of incomplete solutions that the judiciary then chaired Branko Masleš also had. The appointment and operation of the KPK Senate should not raise any doubts about bias, so a change in the appointment of the KPK Senate should be considered, perhaps also in the direction that the KPK Senate, on a proposal from the President, appoints the National Assembly with a two-thirds majority vote of all Members. Perhaps this would bring about a broader consensus and would not repeatedly repeat doubts about the political or apolitical nature of the anti-corruption commission’s Senate. The preventive area is certainly one that needs special care, as the results show that countries promoting transparency and accountability are more successful in preventing corruption. Repressive institutions, such as the police and the prosecution, will not do anything. Most corruption is eliminated through prevention, transparency, and the pursuit of financial flows. Organisations involved in the study of corruption in Slovenia have, for many years, been pointing out the inappropriate regulation of public procurement and public-private partnerships, the non-transparent conduct of public and local-owned enterprises, the inappropriate use of public property, the misuse of power in local self-government, the inadequate regulation of the health and banking system, the inappropriate implementation of legislation in practice and the untransparent legal trail and the placement of the content of laws. In Slovenia we have apparently finally admitted that we have a problem with systemic corruption, with corruption at the highest level. This corruption consumes a lot of state money every year and undermines people's confidence in politics and the whole social system. The central point of the fight against this corruption must become laws that will not allow this corruption to happen, but will establish a system that will be transparent and will not foster the interests of individuals and certain social groups. This is our sour apple, which we must bite into as soon as possible if we do not want to be eaten by such or other worms as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u57	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are going to have a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decision. First of all, he applied for the floor on behalf of the proposaler, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Let me give you some answers that I think I owe them. Let me just start with the last speaker, the representative of the Slovenian People's Party. What is the measure of success of the KPK? I congratulate you on that question. Indeed, this question is an extremely important question to which the left policy option does not want to give an answer. What is the criterion of KPK's work? Is the measure of the National Assembly’s work the number of laws, meetings, performances, or what? We have some criteria. What is the measure of success of the KPK? And tell me all those who so praised the work of the KPK, what it has done from 2011 to today. What did this commission do good? How many people dealing with corruption are the result of the commission's work at the Age? The answer is: none. Is the work of the Anti-Corruption Commission one person affected? It's not. So what's the criterion? Personally, I'd only sign under one thing that was well done at the time, that's the Supervisor. This is definitely a good thing that we cannot report to this committee, and we must say that it has indeed done well. What's left? The fact that she informed us that there was a lot of corruption in the banks, they said. That was one of their reports. We all know that because there's 5 billion missing. We all know that. Did they reveal any names? They didn't reveal any names. They wrote a report on corruption in banks, which is irrelevant. We all know that. What did they do for it? Nothing. Let's move on. That there's a lot of corruption in health care, they said. We know that, too. What did they do? Did they reveal any names? Have they reported any suspicions of a crime? I don't know. Maybe they are. Don't talk about not knowing how successful the KPK is, because that's not true. That's just not true. Let me explain a few more concepts below. I believe that the Slovenian public cannot separate some terms, and we must therefore separate the politicians, especially those who have now appeared as Mrs Hočevar. It is important to be very clear on these matters. Corruption is not a crime of corruption. Are we clear? The criminal acts of corruption are enshrined in the Penal Code. It says very clearly: giving gifts, receiving gifts and so on. There are also five, six, seven crimes in the area of corruption. These are crimes that the police can detect, that prosecutors can prosecute, and that can be tried in the courts. What's the word "inappropriately explained"? It's nothing. Some term you can't complain about. What does the term "the possibility of systemic corruption" mean? What's the word "police"? Nothing. What's with the D.A.'s statement? Nothing. And what's the court gonna do? Nothing. It's some sort of apparent success and nothing else. If I go in line, just like the Members did. KPK is after corruption. Mr. Khršak, let me read this law once. The PKK does not pursue corruption. Corruption crimes are prosecuted by the police, the prosecution and the judiciary, and not by the KPK. The KPK writes basic opinions and speaks and weaves with those words that I mentioned earlier – "the possibility of corruption", "systemic corruption", "sum of corruption", and so on, which is not criminal offences in the field of corruption under the Penal Code. The PKK is not pursuing any corruption. However, if the KPK were to be what we suggest, it could make 10 or 20 supervisors in different areas. Then the KPK would do much in a preventive way against corruption. Mr Čehovin, of course, Members of the SDS are burdened by meetings of the National Assembly with some debates without conclusions. Don't be rude and offensive in style, I won't say any more about your pre-1990 period, which you denied last time. I don't want to say anything else. We have clearly presented three conclusions. As for all the meetings so far, we have also presented conclusions, but you cancelled them on the committee, and therefore there is no voting in the National Assembly. It is necessary to be corrected and it is necessary to be honest in these matters. Austria has a commission. Of course he does, because we were not members of the Judgment. Isn't that right, Mr. Chekovin? What kind of committee does Austria have? She doesn't have one. Only two clicks should be made and you will see what Austria has. Austria has a job within the Ministry of Prevention and nothing else — what we propose. But he doesn't have a commission. I reiterate that the Commissions have Slovenia, Croatia, Latvia, Macedonia, Serbia and Albania. Here we find commissions and nowhere else in Europe. None of the countries listed do, however, have the same powers in the law as our Commission, in terms of suspicion of corruption, systemic corruption, corruption, corruption and so on. Nobody's got that. Corrections should be made in these matters. Mrs. Katarina, we're on our way. The pillar of the fight against corruption. This pillar's rotted. This pillar isn't even for you to sit up there, and you're a "chain," as it's called. That's rot. It doesn't exist. It doesn't exist. What pillar of the fight against corruption? Do you know what a good pillar of fighting corruption is? The axis between the police, the prosecution and the judiciary. Today you commit a crime, tomorrow you'll get caught if I caricature you, the day after tomorrow you're charged, the next day you're convicted, and the fourth day you're on the Age. That's effective. I've been doing a little caricatures, of course, and there's a few hands. That's effective. So KPK is not a pillar. KPK is a mailbox where you can throw anonymouss, but you can sign. That's it. That's not a pillar. Anti-corruption epicenter. I had to make the right laugh. He is an epicenter — from the point of view of an earthquake, a political one made by your president first and followed by others. That's easy. The epicenter for the political exploitation of KPC reports. That'll do. Not that the commission is the epicenter of anti-corruption action. That's not true. Tell me, who went to jail for the KPK report? They're down at the Age of One Alone, in the same cell as the result of KPK's work? He's not here. There's lobbying at work and so on, you say. I agree that lobbying is at work as regards the appointment of the current KPK leadership. I've known both vice presidents for almost 35 years. They used to be high school kids when I used to work at this school as a tutor. Someone came across all the levels of the uniformed police and all the levels of the criminal police – and I do not defend this person far from this – and eventually becomes the head of the criminal police of Slovenia and then the famous commission, Mrs Župevc says he is not suitable for the president. I'm talking about Dr. Juret Fermet. He's got a scientific name. He is not suitable, and he was the head of the Slovenian Criminal Police. But someone who couldn't become a judge, failed, couldn't become a prosecutor, couldn't become a notary. That's a good one. Well done to the committee! And this commission after itself destroys all traces, magnetograms and sound recordings. Tell me what you're going to submit to the court when this complaint is brought before you. In fact, one of the candidates, lawyer Marta Petkovic, complained. On what basis, then, will the court decide? Based on the testimony of the commission or on what? The documents will probably have to be submitted. It will not be possible to submit these documents because you have destroyed them, and you have put the President of the State in the role of a key which he is allowed to sign. Of course, then everyone else – right, Mrs Katarina – is starting the lobby from the background and is the second on the scale, we already have a new one on the scales, a new best policy in this country. This is like in the inn where you order what suits you, and then at the FDV they make it, and we have a new one at the head of the most popular politicians, because someone has run against the will of his own party and against the will of the Slovenian political left and even won the elections. What did he let go of? Therefore, he must now be put on his knees and the evidence of these conversations must be destroyed. There are lobbying at work — I sign. But at work are those lobbying of those uncles who decide about this country. They're at work, and that's true. He's attacking the police. Where did you see any assaults on the police? Who's attacking the police? I'm really asking you here to explain. The police don't attack. I didn't track any assaults on the police. I already said that the National Investigation Office, despite Mrs Kresal's project, is a good idea. About 12 or 15 people, around here somewhere, were reassigned to this office at the time of my ministry. I think they're reporting pretty distortedly in the media right now, how they're going to get stronger, but let's just leave it. It will strengthen economic crime in Slovenia, criminals in this area. Personally, I welcome this, and I've never seen this before. But if someone's attacking the police, tell them, because I'd really like to react for the sake of the police. A new law on KPK – Bravo! Mrs Kociper has already announced it on TV3 or where we were sitting. What will a new law on the Commission to prevent corruption bring? This law should be renamed and named "The Act to Prevent Boris Stefanean". That would be the real term. Since you will prepare a law in which you will make a change, add some articles, change the article that speaks of the appointment of the President, and put two other members together or two members of the party, and make a transitional provision: in time until 31. 12. or 30. 10. or whatever the new Commission leadership is called to prevent corruption. The Slovenian public must know that. That's how you're going to drive Mr. Stephenac away. I'm not defending him, I'm stressing again. I think there were a lot of candidates for the president who were significantly better, but they didn't make it through. Perhaps Mrs. Melita will say something about this subject. Whether it was a secret procedure — I don't know what you had, but I want to know something about it. And in this way – you said, Mrs Katarina, that he should know that he must resign. Bravo! That's what others say. The President of the State asks him if he thinks he'll still be able to work and so on. But this part of the hall will adopt a law that says we'll get a new leadership. So we're gonna head him by law, aren't we? Yes, with the law you will head this gentleman because you don't like him. What if I accidentally wrote it as the first product – I recommend that as the first product around April 1st he examines airline tickets, perhaps. That would be very interesting and very interesting. Because if it's like he says he doesn't have any uncles in the back, I don't know what that looks like on him. So much for the new law. Do not say anything nice, tell the Slovenian public directly: we will adopt a law by which we will drive the Stephenean out. That's what you're saying. You have to say it directly, not change it. And if some camera showed the MPs who talked about it, it would be good, wouldn't it? Once again, as regards the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, I reiterate to the public at large, you have a research task in the Research Section of the National Assembly, which is very clear on this subject: there is no commission to prevent corruption in European countries. They're not like ours. The Slovenian political left insists on this because it suits it. I have previously listed a number of things that this Commission has done in recent years – since, even before that, most of these Commission products to prevent corruption could be called "protective products of the Slovenian political left". That would be the real term for that. More later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Melita Zupevec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Gorenak gave me a really great point. Why, though, was Mr Yuri Ferme, former head of the Criminal Police Directorate, not suitable for the new President of the Anti-Corruption Commission? That's the question he asked me. I believe he knows I won't answer him. And I ask him, or I return him with a question: How do you know how I voted on Mr. Yuri Fermet? How do you know that I did not think that he would be suitable for the new President of the Commission to prevent corruption? Mr Gorenak, I think even these minutes of the vote have been made public, and you will see from them what the vote was like on Mr Yuri Fermet as well. So I'm asking you not to publicly invite me to answer. I am indeed returning to you with the question of how do you know that I voted against Mr Yuri Fermet. Of course, I won't tell you how I am, but I'm giving you a second thought to how you know that the representative of the National Assembly, Melita Zupevec, has voted as you think I am. But I could have voted differently. On the subject of the appointment of Mr Boris Štefanec as the new President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, I have made one call to date. At that time, I said three things: that I do not know gentlemen that I saw him for the first time before the selection committee at the hearing, and that when I learned that he was most likely a member of my client, I had informed the members of the selection committee on the same day. For the purposes of these or those theories of conspiracy, half-truths and non-truths, many of them rushed to accuse me of waiting until the moment before we communicated the decision to the President of the Republic. Some media have even written vehemently that I have sent this message to the members when we have already forwarded the proposal for Mr Štefanec to the President of the Republic and so on. These theories, half-truths, the untruths in these days have been a great deal, but none of them are true. I'll say it another time today. Why didn't I explain every day, defend myself in the media, in public? Because I had nothing to defend myself. I told the members of the commission what I knew, and I told them right away, the same day. This reminds me of one example when fellow Members of the parliamentary group on my left accused me not long ago that I had forged my signature for an extraordinary session of the National Assembly. Even then I stopped by once because I knew that I had signed for an extraordinary session of Parliament by myself and no one else, and I had no need to publicly defend myself every day in front of the media in public. This was not last checked and even confirmed for the first time in the history of Slovenian Parliamentarianism even by forensics, i.e. criminals. But okay, let's move on. A key argument from the candidates for today's extraordinary meeting is that the appointment of a new KPK president for a political project has taken place. This argument or this claim simply does not hold. If I could, I wouldn't be in this project, whether you believe it or not. This is your right. Let us look again at the composition of the selection commission as defined by the law. One member shall be appointed to the election committee, which shall propose to the President of the Republic a new President of the PKK and his deputy: the Government shall appoint one member, the National Assembly of one, the non-profit organisation of the private sector in the field of preventing corruption from its members, the Council of Justice from among its members and the Council of Officials. He shall sit together on the election committee of five members. Why am I stressing this? Because if it were to maintain the logic of a political project, it should have a current, day-to-day policy in the composition of such a commission, which is the dominant majority, it does not. The law was written in such a way that the influence of current, daily policies is limited. In each decision, the three members of the selection commission who do not come from political groups, not from the government or from Parliament, may vote on the other two representatives of the selection commission, one of whom comes from the National Assembly and the other is appointed by the government. The ratio is 3:2. Of course, Mr. Gorenak, the ratio is 3:2. How can these two representatives – the Secretary-General of the Government – not a member of Positive Slovenia at all, so I do not know if you consider it to be this quota. I think you're doing her wrong. But it was precisely the intention to prepare this law to limit the influence of daily politics. Unless someone imagines that the representatives of the National Assembly and the governments are convincing all the other members of this selection committee to vote in the way they think it is right and in the way that they are supposed to be ordered by the daily policy. You will probably even remember, Mr Gorenak, that when this law was written, there were even ideas that, on behalf of the National Assembly, there would be a representative of the Commission of the National Assembly for the supervision of public finances and also a representative of the Court of Auditors. In the end, the law was written as it was. The procedure carried out in this particular case was governed by the law in force. In one thing, I agree with Mr Gorenak – in why there was no such shouting and screaming in 2010, because the procedure was the same, the law was the same, but in 2004 the law was different, it was not the same. So these things don't just go into the same basket. Last but not least, in 2010, this selection committee was working on the same procedure as it is working today. Even then, two of the same members sat on that election committee as they are sitting today. And then the procedure, as far as I know, no one objected. Polonca Kovac, who was then and today appointed by the Official Council, said at the press conference that today the same criteria were met as in 2010. The law on integrity and the prevention of corruption is clear: "The President of the country..." – and I must stress this: "...he has the political discretion to choose or not to choose any candidate." So, the procedure could be repeated for the third time, the fourth time, the fifth time, if you want. Both the Presidents of the Election Commission – the procedures, as you know, were two, and first was Mrs Polonca Kovac, and secondly, Mrs Simona Habič – were very detailed in detail about the whole process, including the fact that, after the first election procedure, the President of the Republic had spoken to the Election Commission and, after the second procedure, I cannot answer you why it did not. I cannot speak on behalf of the entire selection committee in the National Assembly, because I am not authorized to do so. The procedure was also of a confidential nature. In this House, I cannot say everything that I may wish to say to myself to clarify something, but I have signed a declaration that I will protect the data after the end of the process, and I will do so. As for the new KPK president, there are only two things I would like to say. Applicants for today's extraordinary meeting, inter alia, say that Mr Štefanec has unsuccessfully competed for the post of Judge and Notary. I would like to hear an answer, or someone in the National Assembly, to explain to me where the selection committee is supposed to get this information. I have to say, when I type on Google, I don't think we'll find that information. Today we will, because the media have published this, but otherwise the selection commission has no mechanisms, it has the authority to access such data. I didn't have that information. I read it in the media after it was already published. So much for an explanation. And it's about political affiliation. In these days, I have heard some criticism, even dismay, astonishment at the party membership of the new KPK President. I just want something, that is, to use the same criteria for other important appointments when they follow, by the SD, the Civil Gazette – I am saying that we will talk about political affiliations and client cards of all kinds, and that we will have the same vat in this regard, especially in terms of law and constitution. I wish those two hadn't forgotten. The President of the Republic of Pahor pointed out one thing last time that seemed quite important to me. He spoke of the image or image of the new president of the KPK, as this man was supposed to be. I had already warned that we could go to the field of some subjective assessments very quickly, what it means for someone to be unburdened, what it means for someone to be brave, what it means for someone to be owed nothing to anyone. Just to avoid these subjective assessments, I think it would be good for things to be defined as much in the law as possible. The question is, do we want the new KPK president to be a former police officer, to be a criminalist, or do we want the lawyer to be a lawyer – these are the questions that, if you ask me, if you ask me, are very legitimate. Some will answer: no, we do not want someone who has spent his whole life in a repressive organ at the top of the KPK. Someone else might see it as an advantage. Do we want a lawyer? I believe that legal knowledge for the President of the PKK is very welcome. If it's an emergency, I don't know. Each of us can have a different grade, but as we say, we could talk about whether we want an ex-cop, a former prosecutor, a former judge, a current lawyer. All these are legitimate questions, and perhaps now is the time to discuss them. I would like to draw attention to another paradox about the work of the selection committee. The electoral commission was informed when Mr Štefanec was proposed, when some low criteria were used to propose this gentleman as the President of the KPK. I think there's some irony in that. If no one has been proposed in the first procedure of 55, this selection commission is likely to have applied high criteria. Of course, I do not agree when it is said that they were waiting exclusively for political criteria. Yes, the selection committee was waiting for Mr Štefanec of Murska Sobota to decide from Hodoš: yes, but I will now wait and run in another procedure because I will be elected then. These conspiracy theories – they may sound good, they may sell well, but they are ridiculous. There was no political criterion for choice. Then, for good reason, I don't know, peace in the coalition could also be chosen by any member of the SD. Some of them went public after that. That wasn't there. As far as the necessary legal changes are concerned, I have already said that I think it would be good for things to be better defined. Last but not least, the distinguished legal experts in the opinion, which they wrote as President of the Republic, pointed out this. They also pointed out the need for legal protection of those involved in the KPK proceedings. This is what we have been talking about in this House for some time. As a matter of fact, the doors to new legislation are open. I believe that in today's debate something will also be said about the supervision of the assets of the current President of the Commission to prevent the corruption of Mr Klemenčič. Since these meetings are closed to the public, I will not abuse the procedure, but I will say two things. I agree with one thing the SDS keeps putting in the mouth of Positive Slovenia – that the process takes too long. I agree with that. Partly for our own fault, but only for one reason – because we wanted to do everything for the legality of this procedure. We put the law ahead of speed. Unfortunately, however, in all our proposals, we have been overheard of, from precisely defining the process of control of the KPK President's assets, not just Mr Klemenčič's, to setting out the rules of procedure by which we will work, if necessary – and it has not been taken into account – until we form a working committee or a working group that will carry out the control process accurately and so on. As we say, we failed. I agree, the procedure takes too long, but I will defend the legality of everything else. I think I've got the point. Given that I have never been disappointed by the SDS, I believe that today I will address Mr Stephenean for the third time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u62	Thank you very much. I think you've proven that you can just sit back and talk, and it is. I didn't ask you personally how you voted, whether you supported one or the other. We see from the records exactly – we know that it is not clear how someone voted, but in the given case 2-3, what I asked. Of course, there is a possibility that you voted differently. I didn't say no. But that's what the commission decided. But you were a member. The way you voted, I don't know. As far as this commission and appointment are concerned, in the previous term, 2004-2008, at least three things were taken in the National Assembly, which is wrong. One was the State Prosecutor’s Council, which was formerly a professional body, 3: 2, in kind, for the benefit of the profession or even 4:1 in favour of the profession. Now we have a political one because we have a 6:3. Six are called politicians, and three are professionals. It's the same story with this committee. Why was it earlier, in the period 2004-2008, okay when we appointed the President in the National Assembly, I think, by a simple majority? I think so. It's not that important. We've moved on to some committee, and we always say that the commissions are independent, which is not true at all. It's not even true that the commissions are independent. This committee, too – here I do not agree with you when you said that 3:2 they could vote. Well, the government and the National Assembly – let's just say that you in the National Assembly were politically determined because the procedure is what it is. I can't argue with that. The government probably did not give any member of the SDS, but it did give a secretary-general who is definitely close to the Prime Minister, which is also logical. So it's politically defined. Justice – find me one in there that is neutral. That's all black and red. Then let's take a look at the Official Council. Polonca Kovac – don't paint me to the right. There's no way. I know too well. NGOs, Mrs. Habic. This is the child of Dear Hair, this institution that she runs or belongs to. Drago Kos founded that institution, "helped her to give birth", and today he is doing just as he is taking the tactic. It is not possible for this commission to be independent. Far from it. But I agree with you that the President of the Republic can say no. One of the journalists, I think, was Bojan Traven, and when we were on that show, he said, "It's Pahor who blindly believes that something has to happen." He could say no. We know that, too. A lawyer, a policeman and so on – these may be questions, but for me, someone who led the criminal police has the advantage over the one who was chosen. It would be nice and good if such a person, if this commission continued, were simply to be named here in the National Assembly with a two-thirds majority. That would be some greater guarantee that we can't get to the situation we've just come up with. I think that would be better. You, as the commission, kept it a secret. You didn't know who was registered, who wasn't registered. I guess the rules of procedure are like this – okay, okay. I didn't say anything was wrong, but the public didn't know anything. But if we go, say, to the Ombudsman, the public knows all about him. Journalists can tear him apart 14 days earlier, and he can't get to the situation he's in. Then, for example, the two-thirds majority, and the insurance against situations like this, as we now have, can be much greater if we go this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u63	Thank you very much. You have a replica, Mrs. Melita Zupevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u64	For a while. As for keeping things a secret, you have found out correctly, and I will explain again as an explanation. All members of the selection commission signed a statement on data protection. I've been doing this all the time, and I'm sticking with it today. And one more thing. Regarding the Council of Justice, you say - I will abstain, but I would like to warn you that the representatives of the Council of Justice were different in separate proceedings, and he was not alone. At the outset, he was President of the Council of Justice and he was not President of the Court after a repeated procedure. And one more thing. The vote on Mr Fermet, you have correctly stated, was 2:3, but you can also say that there was a vote on Mr Stefanec 5: 0. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Bogovic is next in line with the statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u66	Good afternoon, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! I think that we can all agree unitedly that corruption in Slovenia from day to day is a major problem and that corruption that occurs on the one hand within the context of the economy-policy-banking system and within individual sectors, as is more revealed from day to day in the field of health and in the past of road construction, and in general also corruption that has arisen among politicians, is a serious problem between the Offices, which needs to be addressed in this country and also to find appropriate answers to the challenges, problems caused by corruption that we literally, and if we do not want to admit, find the rule of law. The second thesis, which we are sure to all agree with, is that the anti-corruption commission, in particular in the last term, and also in the previous, first composition, earlier with Mr Drag Kos and later with Mr Klemenčič, has prepared quite a few very resounding cases. Some have had very strong influences, including on the structure of political life in Slovenia, but unfortunately from day to day, it is more apparent that this anti-corruption commission is becoming a toothless tiger – a commission that on the one hand probably does not have sufficient authority, tools in its hands to bring the processes to an end and process them, and that the effects of this action would also be. At the same time, you also don't want to make this impression in public all the time, but maybe it's not the same for all of us in the anti-corruption commission, or at least it's easy to interpret such things. The third thing that emerged very clearly from the last choice is that the process of electing the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission as well as the Senate itself is more than problematic. It is true that the previous two procedures have not been politicised, but also in these clearly electrified political, economic and other situations it has become more obvious that the process as it is is problematic. In a way, all that has been happening around this last procedure has been of great harm to the very anti-corruption commission, to the people who have participated in these proceedings, but not least, I think it is also detrimental to the office of the President of the State, because the role of the President of the State in this process has in some way been very underestimating to the Institute itself of the President of the State, but in some ways it has also been possible to show a lack of the President's determination at the last moment in public, when he represented the Senate of the Commission, to argue whether such a Chamber seems appropriate and sufficiently competent to carry out those difficult tasks which it has before it, or not, but at the same time he has given up the work and simply proposed such a Chamber and the President. All that is going on is in some way, in my deep conviction, just the decomposition of this institution, and in some ways we can rightly see how people who may not have been so familiar with the structure and powers, the tasks, the work of this commission, are simply appalled at what is going on in this area. In some ways, what might not have been discovered in previous proceedings has become exposed, and I think that certain things should change. With regard to this controversy, which will obviously revolve in this direction today, whether it is political recruitment or not, whether the decisions were in the past also in some way subordinate to the political opinion of the Commissioners from the Commission, we can peacefully argue that the appointments in the past were certainly such that the Commission was led by people of left-wing political prominence, and the current President of the Commission, who came from the place of State Secretary at the Ministry of Internal Affairs, certainly cannot hide any roots of political affiliation. In this part, I think we also have a certain problem at this point, which is now, through proposals, where it appears, at least so in the public eye, in addition to this political affiliation, the problem of people's competences is becoming a bigger problem from day to day, and something should be done. With regard to the Commission, I think that there is a need for a thorough reflection and that this first dilemma that we have — whether the Commission is independent — should be sufficiently effective, whether it is an institution in the country of the European format that Slovenians want to be, whether it should be considered, as colleagues suggest, to be more effective than any other department within which certain repressive authorities operate in the country. As far as the procedures are concerned, it is very strange that the material that was made around this selection was lost that it was supposed to have been destroyed. In this part, I think it is again a great precedent that this Commission should not have allowed itself, and we should not have allowed this kind of work in the country. As far as the working conditions are concerned. It is very important, for example, to note that such a commission has at its disposal one third of the resources that we need to carry out any referendum in the country. I think we need to imagine at this point whether it is really possible, after this data, that million, a million and a half euros, to do this work in a qualitative manner, and finally to get the results, as we asked our colleagues in the Slovenian People's Party, when we measure what the Commission has done. The second thing that I think is right is also the information that has been published publicly in the last few days. For a man who is supposed to be chasing billions of people who are also lost in corruption, we have, if I have just seen the data in our legal order, in the payment system of some EUR 2 000 500 per month. When we look between lawyers and among these people, the most successful person to address this problem is the question of whether we have measured a fairly stimulating remuneration so that what happens to us, for example, in the police, when police find that with very low incomes they hunt criminals who manage a lot of money, and then we get cases where we also have actions on the police side that are not honorable to the police and are not in line with the law. So in these circumstances, I think we're going to need one thorough conversation. Unfortunately, today's meeting will take place again in accordance with the classic scenario that has been taking place in recent years, so that extraordinary meetings will be used mainly for mutual accounting. Also, none of the conclusions, since material came from the opposition or one of the opposition parties, are confirmed at the committee meeting, which means that we cannot decide on anything today. I propose that in these debates we really focus our efforts in this direction to see if we have the right body in Slovenia. In view of the results we see or the problem of the growth of corruption, we must certainly ask whether this is all right or not and what we should do to make the fight against corruption more effective in Slovenia in the future than it is today. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have also opened up a particular issue or issue in the Group's position, and if we have this meeting, we will make use of it for this purpose, but as little as possible for that mutual treatment, which will not really help the fight against corruption in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs Iva Dimic. Mr Jožef Kunič, then Mrs Sonja Ramšak and Mr Mirko Brulc are prepared for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Everything mentioned and said today in the National Assembly shows that the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption has completely lost its credibility in recent complications. It even strengthened the belief that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is in line with the current state of affairs, with all the elite network mentioned today – corruption in health care, corruption in state banks and could still be listed. Otherwise, if we wanted to end this, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia could act differently and at the very beginning. The decision on the best candidate, the criteria for selection and the assessment of the best candidates, as we have already heard today, raise doubts for almost everyone. In New Slovenia, on all committees, we point out that corruption in our country, despite the functioning of the anti-corruption body, is on the rise and that the functioning of such a body does not in itself ensure a successful fight against corruption, which controls the capital interests of the lobby and the entire Slovenian society. The fact is that in Slovenia we need the efficient and fair work of the judiciary and the detection and prosecution bodies. The current powers and responsibilities of the Commission to prevent corruption and its work compared to those of the countries that have developed democracy, and of which you have all already talked today about how this is regulated in neighbouring countries – these forms of institutions do not know, but have something: an effective and fair judicial system and well-functioning detection and prosecution bodies, and it is very important that we also use it in Slovenia. But as with other laws, we somehow know how to draw only one part of the neighbouring countries into another part, which probably the ruling coalition doesn't fit that moment, and that doesn't happen. Unfortunately, as I said before, our Slovenian reality is quite different, and it shows that political lobbying is not in the interest of a commission or anti-corruption body that would have some systemic power, as it is regulated in neighbouring countries, so we are in Slovenia where we are, and we have been stepping in the same place for several years. Although it is the task of the State to ensure consistent implementation of the acquis within its repressive bodies, this is clearly not in its hands. In view of all the complications that are taking place in the election of this Chamber, the removal of the hearings of candidates for the Senate of the Anti-Corruption Commission, not least the milkiness of the President of the State, the denial of knowledge and political affiliations, is justified in raising doubts about the relevance of the existence of such a single body, which, by the way, operates without adequate supervision and without any criteria. Therefore, in New Slovenia we support fundamental changes in the organisation of the fight against corruption. As has been said several times today, also by my fellow Member of the Magi. The tone of how this will be resolved is in the hands of the coalition Members. What conclusions will be reached where the matter will take place – everything is in their hands, and I expect that, on the basis of today's session, we will be a step closer to what is good for the country, which is good for citizens and citizens, and also for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Dr. Joseph Kunic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The question is before all of us whether or not we still need the Commission to prevent corruption. Dr. Gorenak seems to have asked this question in some way. If we ask ourselves what the effects of the commission were, then we may find that no one is sitting in the Age, that no one has ever been punished for it, but this commission has given our country some other very important effects. In fact, she sensitized the public about corruption. Before that, the police and other repressive authorities had an adequate responsibility, but they did not. This commission has led to a broad debate on corruption. I am sure that there will be no debate today without this committee. Why wasn't there a time when only the police were in charge? She wasn't there. And that is the great effect of this commission. Indeed, the question arises why we should not do so, for example, the police, why not do so by the Court of Auditors, such as the proposals. At first glance, these proposals seem logical, but unfortunately there is a fact that these institutions have simply not done so. They did not sensitize the whole of Slovenia to start talking about corruption, to perceive corruption, to discuss it and to seek solutions. We know that the police have acted against corruption, for sure, but let us not forget that one important document that has come in connection with corruption from abroad has remained in the police drawer for almost a year or more. I'm not accusing anyone. It doesn't matter whether it was or not, but there was no sensitized action against corruption. The Court of Auditors – yes, but we do know that the Court of Auditors ordered the previous and previous government to sanction a minister, and this did not happen. So it is also not such an effective body that I think would really help to deal with corruption in this way and understand it as it is now understood. From this point of view, I support the existence of such a commission, simply for two reasons: because it turned out that both the police and the other institutions were not so effective, and secondly, because corruption is such a big problem in that country. We have heard that corruption with the creation of a commission has somehow increased. That's kind of what one of my predecessors said. This reminds me of when they began to discover AIDS, and it was the country with the most AIDS in the very beginning of Switzerland, simply because it was discovered there and not elsewhere. That is why, according to my assessment, Slovenia has also experienced such an effect. When this commission began to talk about corruption, to make reports, and so on, it is true that no one is sitting at the Age, but then we found that we are a relatively very corrupt country. This has also been seen by the relevant institutions investigating the level of corruption of international institutions, and this assessment for Slovenia has undoubtedly been poorer. But the fact is that it is very positive that we have found this disease in ourselves that we are trying to treat it. Whether we are successful or not, now it is still a very open question. First, on the political functioning of the Commission and on the quality of people. We can make any system of choice and write that it must not be political or that it must be political or two thirds in the National Assembly and so on — all of this is true. But the expertise and political orientation of the Commission depends on the people who run it. And the people who run it are chosen with full responsibility by the President of the State. Indeed, there are commissions, indeed there are proposals for whom to choose, in some way, as each president has more or less a commission, some experts to propose to him, but the responsibility is 100% his. I am convinced that any criticism of the election is mainly directed at the President of the State. He made that choice. Whether he's good or not, I wouldn't discuss it because I don't know enough about the quality of the chosen candidate and of the other candidates who were elected, and then they stepped down. I hope that the President, with all his headquarters, will find strength and wisdom and solve this problem in favour of Slovenia. However, I do not support any major legal restrictions on the selection of personnel. I think that the main definition in the selection of personnel in addition to some general conditions must be the simple wisdom and wisdom chosen to be appropriate. We can write whole studies about who is suitable, never telling who is suitable for what kind of job, so it is necessary to have experience and some wisdom and commitment to really focus on this problem and to select the best staff. However, I am sure that the way in which the Commission operates, the law that defines this, should be upgraded. Personally, I think that you can complain about the conclusions or keep such conclusions secret and then go to the police and other repressive authorities, and then only in court can anyone complain. But I wouldn't discuss it now. I think that this debate would be appropriate if I did, and I hope that the law that defines it will be adequately upgraded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sonja Ramshak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Secretary of State, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! I think we're kind of moving away from the main purpose of today's session. In fact, the agenda item is the proposal for a decision on the procedures for appointing a new Commission leadership to prevent corruption and organise and work. Why do I think we're moving away? It is precisely because, in the introduction, fellow Members and colleagues have put forward a number of views, and I must say in particular that it is essential to stress that you are at the meeting of the Home Committee, namely the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, the Coalition Members and Members of Parliament, who have prevented them from voting on the proposed decisions today or, if you did not like these conclusions, that they have proposed new ones. We have drawn two general conclusions in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. What did you reject or reject? The first decision we have proposed is as follows: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has held a debate on the procedures for the appointment of a new Chamber of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, its organisation and its work, and notes that the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption in its current organisational form and with its current powers does not guarantee the implementation of its core by law of a specific mission." We have tabled an amendment to this decision and replaced the word "new Senate" with "new officials". And what did we propose in the second general conclusion? "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to examine existing legislation on the prevention of corruption and integrity and to propose appropriate solutions," not to repeat everything that has already been said. And if anything, then we must have somehow united at this point that the legislation that is now in force, namely the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, is not appropriate and needs to be supplemented. However, since the Slovenian Democratic Party has proposed this again, or the largest opposition party, it is necessary to vote against it. Otherwise, a person can no longer create a different opinion. A few days ago, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group was located in the Podravja area, and on occasion we also met a person with an extremely moral authority in this country. This person said – I will not expose her – that in 1990 and 1991 we had Slovenians and Slovenians together, this is the independence of Slovenia. Then we had a common goal of joining the European Union, and the next goal was to become an equal member in relation to NATO. These were our common goals. And that today we lack common goals for Slovenes and Slovenes. When I listen to these discussions in this Chamber, I could almost say that we have some common goals for which it would be worth fighting and working in this direction. As a first objective, I would like to stress that certainly all of us here today are committed to respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. That could be the first objective. The second objective is a just and legal state. And the third objective is the absolute fight against corruption and organised crime. And if we were to unify ourselves on these objectives, then I am sure that our actions below would not only remain at the declaration level, but we could also agree with a number of solutions. As the intention today was to point out in particular the inadequate selection of the President and the two members of the Commission's anti-corruption Chamber, it is necessary to say and stress what has already been said on the Committee itself several times – that this procedure involved some substantial infringements, particularly in the part where the President of the State simply did not have the opportunity to decide between several candidates who met the conditions, who, according to his personal conviction and on the basis of legislation, met the relevant conditions. The President of the Republic did not have this option. And here it is that the commission is supposed to act professionally, apolitically and so on, failed the exam. That is why so many dilemmas have arisen in both the professional and the general public that procedures have been violated and that some candidates who have applied for the invitation to tender have been violated. By destroying materials, magnetograms, sound recordings and more, the President, on the basis of what he received in advance, simply did not, in my personal opinion, have the opportunity to decide on the candidate who would be the most suitable candidate on his own standards for the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and both members of the Senate. What does the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption say? Article 9, paragraph 5, states: "The Election Commission shall verify the fulfilment of the conditions laid down in Article 7, paragraph 2, of this Law and shall assess the suitability of candidates in accordance with Article 7, paragraph 3, of this Law. The Election Commission shall, within 30 days of the expiry of the deadline referred to in the preceding paragraph, forward to the President of the Republic a list of candidates......" – I stress, the list of candidates – "... who meet the conditions and are fit for appointment." Unfortunately, the Commission, neither the first nor the second, gave this opportunity to the President of the State. And what does Article 7 in paragraph 2 say? "The President of the Commission and his deputy shall be nationals of the Republic of Slovenia, have at least the education obtained under the second-degree study programmes or the level of education which, in accordance with the law governing higher education, corresponds to the second-degree education and at least 10 years of work experience in the performance of the tasks for which this education is required and shall not be legally sentenced to imprisonment." And in the third paragraph: "The President of the Commission and his deputy shall be the person for whom it is possible to conclude, on the basis of the work, conduct or conduct so far, that he will be acting lawfully and in accordance with the rules of procedure." I must say that I do not know the rules of procedure of the Commission, but at least what the Commission should do is to give the President a list of candidates on which he could decide. Thus, only one candidate came before the President, meeting certain conditions that only members and members of the Commission know. If I finish. We are always in this room full of mouths, fighting corruption, condemning corruption and so on. And I'm going to point out that a lot of you have highlighted a number of cases today. Today we can read in the newspaper how a Member has already forwarded to the former Minister of Health for Employment or for the appropriateness of the candidate for the Director of the Ptuj hospital. We all know that I am talking about the current Minister of Health and that there are again indications in the media that the Minister should resign. And why again? Who recommended the minister? It should be recommended by the same Member. Have you condemned such conduct in the Group of Positive Slovenia? This is a sign of corruption for me. It would not come to my mind that any candidate who has applied for a top position in any public office or minister would be brought into the cabinet of the Minister and somehow put pressure on her or her. I have not heard this from your side, and this is the first step towards whether you speak one, but you do the other, and whether what you say in this Chamber is actually what you are taking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor. Mr Richard Braniselj and Mr Michael Prevc are preparing for him.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye! In the introduction, let me stress that I take into account the opinion of the Government and also the Legislative and Legal Service. It is true that in Europe they do not know the Anti-Corruption Commission in all countries. Fortunately, we know her and we have her, and we will have her. We need her. We're going to need it until we have born true values, that's honesty, insubordination, and something else, not to mention everything. But it won't be for long. We now need a decisive fight against corruption, and today's debate is once again an attempt to devalue and attempt to prevent the work of this Commission. This is evident, also because, already in the introduction, the applicant addressed the reports prepared by the Commission for two important party Februarys. To wash yourself, you mention a neighbor you'd rather not see. That hurts a lot, but this is where this committee turns out not to be party-loaded and everyone comes in line. I hope so. However, the anti-corruption commission, one or another, is constantly discredited. Each individual we have on this committee is immediately marked, branded: he is suitable, he is not suitable. The whole thing is whether he was a cop, whether he was a criminal, whether he was a judge and so on, and what's better. It will be very difficult for us to get real professional skills, especially those that would be, say, middle-aged, properly educated, but without any history of their lives, as if they had fallen out of the sky and are completely flawless. There's no such people and there won't be. Everyone has a past behind them, which is not necessarily bad, which is not always 100 percent successful and similar, but we wipe it clean right away. Today, it has also been officially said here that such a commission is the site of the failed party February. Come on, come on! That's not gonna hold. I will not name the names of those who have been highly exposed, but have had important functions. Some have done it well, some have done it a little bit worse. There was also a lot of talk about the failed transition. This is a scientific debate after Grimes, it's literally making a madman out of science and history. The Constitutional Law Institute says that it is essential to approach the strengthening of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. I agree with that. Then we will have to invest some more energy in allowing this commission to act as we wish. We know that many times it has been mentioned that Toothless is a tiger and so on. They do not need to be given any special teeth, but they do not need to be legally able to determine exactly what they can accomplish. I think it's very easy to talk about corruption. Many times, a survey of directors has been mentioned. Now let these directors tell you whether they bribed someone or were bribed to get someone else's job. Let them say, if they have 90 and some percentage results, that without corruption, nothing goes anywhere. Once upon a time, if you remember, Pezdir was talking about the pressures he was under, the lobbying he was going to publish it all and so on. That wasn't any of it. But he was on TV for two months. Every night we watched him mock about corruption. And famous President Luke Koper said, "In 10 days I'll find out who and what will fall out of the closet, how many corrupt acts and so on." He was flashing in the media, and we believed him. What's left of it? Nothing. But this mill is spinning, everyone's stealing, everyone's corrupt, all politicians and so on. Then let him say the name. Let him go to the D.A., have him go to the police, have him report it. So did he. What are they bluffing on us here and making fun of us? At the same time, he says that some probably do not have to apply to justice or to criminals and so on and get into this process because we have nothing to take away from them anyway. Please! It's not about taking anything away from them, even though it's taking property you don't know where it came from, whether it's 200 grand or 3 million, or registering a car or half a car, I don't care about the total. We need to get these guys somewhere, and we have all the mechanisms for that. But no, some knitting, burning in the media, and then it's none of that. I think it is imperative that this anti-corruption commission be brought to life. The President of the State repeated the invitation to tender for two members of the Senate. This needs to be put into action, and legal assistance is needed to ensure that such a commission is effective. Maybe it's 10, 15 years from now we won't really need it, because they'll be able to go differently. But today, unfortunately, that's not possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u75	Thank you very much. As your candidate, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u76	Thank you very much. There are few moments when I can agree, even if Mr Brulc is a pre-spoken speaker. I agree with you this time. If we link up what Mr Kunič said, the matter is relatively clear – that the perception of corruption is completely different today than it was 10 years ago. That's right. This must also be attributed in an important part to the Commission for the prevention of corruption. That's a fact. But if we look at what you said about what the directors said and so on, there is something else. I was alone before, I don't know, a 5, 6-year-old mentor to someone on a master's degree, then scientific, and the situation was that we surveyed inspectors in Slovenia, and that was an important part. I think it was 600, 700 respondents, and we asked them what they thought about corruption in general. And the result was – what? There's so much corruption. On a scale of 1 to 5 it was right there at 4. Then we asked the same people: how many times did you get an offer, how many times did you get an envelope, how many times did you get a favor? But here we stayed on score 2, which means there's a big hole between reality and perception, if you call it that. It's not said that this hole is a bad thing. This hole could be a good thing, because we're paying more attention to corruption. That's absolutely true. But it is not right, and it is a fact that the Commission is doing what it is doing to prevent corruption. If I were to deal with prevention, including supervisors and similar matters, including these perceptions of corruption, warnings and so forth, it is for me O.K. When he declares corruption an act of corruption by the mayor who buys three carnages for March 8th, he bought it from his municipal councilman, because 50 kilometers around there is no flower shop, and then it is not a fight against corruption, but it is an abuse of the law, and it is nonsense. And when the commission acts selectively and says, "I will be here, and I will not be there – for example, he sees Mr Tank's son, but he does not see Mr Masleš's son – until then it is clear that this commission is political and that it works politically. Here are the main problems of this commission. So I agree with you that those of you who are so grabbing, let's say domestically, about corruption, go to the police and have them report it. Let them present some evidence and an end, not that we have a commission to throw anonymouss. And then he starts them, sends them to the police and says she's discovered corruption. She didn't find anything. That's right. It is true that Mr Kunic spoke about the President of the State. That's true again. In 2011, there was no problem with the appointment of Mr Klemenčič, who was very well-defined. But it's true that he didn't have that plastic card that said LDS or whatever it was back then. He didn't have it, but he was significantly more exposed to clientele than he was 10 years old. It wasn't a problem. But now I feel like – I'm sorry, and I have to say this, and I'm going to tell you who's opposite me, you're all in a row, and now it's turned out like we're advocates of the president of the country. Now all Slovenian politics says: here it is. Now it's all his fault. He has so decided, he takes responsibility, he has to fix the situation. And it's not gonna be like that. There was a committee that prepared this. There was this committee that told 50 people they weren't right. I don't think there were 50 of them that were really inappropriate. There was a commission that only set one, and there was a president who was just naive. That's true. However, it is also a president who does not have the support of his own party and who does not have the support of the Slovenian political left because he has allowed himself to run for the elections through the will of the rulings in this country – they are back there. But I don't know if it's right that we're going with all the guns on him now, and that's not defending him, because after all he doesn't belong to my political option. But this is a reflection of the state of the spirit in this country, even in politics, because then we make someone guilty in one way or another. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Richard Branisel has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u78	Thank you very much. I'm gonna try hard to be original, given that my predecessors have said a lot of things that I would have said myself. In this country we all get to know at least three important things: "Fusbal", "tourism", and "corruption". Corruption is the problem. Wherever it is, corruption is a major problem, but I am afraid that this corruption is already being exaggerated. We're the only country in the world that's declared to have systemic corruption. We are said to be second in Europe or even in the world at the level of corruption, and we are all unhappy because we are not first. But look at the damage we do to our own country when we show foreigners what kind of country we live in and how we do business and what damage we do to our economy, because our economy and our country abroad are treated as they perceive it as we are telling them that we are doing business. Either they don't want to do business with us or they do business the way they see us doing business with them. I'd be extremely careful here. The lack of trust in institutions in this country is still too great. We need to trust in the KPK, in the NPU, in the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office, in the courts, in the police and in all other institutions that have a specific task in this country – a key task. In fact, corruption involves at least two people with a name and surname. When we speak less and work more in this direction, even in such a way as to prevent, detect, denounce, disable, and so forth, we will do whatever is necessary and not discredit the authorities of this country. We have various rallies against corruption. One of the clients said that corruption must be forged and so on. All this is true, but not enough. More will have to be done on a personal level. With regard to the appointment of the KPK Senate. Of course, the taste is poor and the journey is unfortunate for starters, but the following must also be found. In this country, when we appoint someone to a position, we do a scientific doctorate on appointment. But when we name someone, we leave him alone to do what he wants. Then there is no hero who will solve this man if there is any suspicion that he has abused our trust, if he has done anything wrong, or if any wrongdoing has been committed. We lack more determination in this part. Not in the field of appointment. Whether these are state institutions or state-owned enterprises, wherever – more determination to demand responsibility and appropriate resolution, and appropriate criminal and compensation if necessary. KPK – of course it has a Senate, but we forget that this KPK also has 40 highly qualified investigators, whose findings form the basis for any opinion of the Senate in individual matters. And we must not discredit these 40 professionals who are doing the right thing, because on the basis of their work we will get the right results, and also the opinion cannot be different from what they have drawn up, found out and so on. I think we need to show our full support for the PKK, and if necessary also to amend the legislation. Right now, I don't think that's necessary. Let us trust in this institution and also in all the other institutions involved in corruption in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Michael Prevc has the floor. Mr Ljubo Žnidar and Mr Branko Smodiš are behind him.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u80	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is for me to appoint a President of the Commission to prevent the corruption of scandals. I think this scandal or, you could say, the president of the country is even embarrassing – someone has to be responsible for it. Whether this responsibility will be assumed by the President-designate, Mr Štefanec, and he will also resign, or whether the President of the Republic of Slovenia, who, in my opinion, made the wrong decision by this appointment, will take this responsibility. In my opinion, this is still the last hope that we will start a serious fight against corruption in Slovenia and finally create a functioning legal country. It is clear to all of us that changes in the area of prevention and the persecution of corrupt practices are necessary, but it is still unfortunately not the right will for some systemic solutions in this area. The results show that those countries that promote transparency and accountability in this area are significantly more successful in preventing corruption, while some still fear public action in Slovenia. I think that we have finally admitted in Slovenia that we have a problem with systemic corruption, i.e. corruption at the highest level, and therefore people's awareness of the presence of corruption is even greater. In order to limit corruption, our thinking will need to be changed in particular. There's going to be a lot of change in our heads. Repressive institutions such as the police and the prosecution will not be able to do all this. In my opinion, most corruption is eliminated by prevention, transparency and the pursuit of financial flows. Politics should self-cleanse those who are suspected to be corrupt. And since it is a matter of prevention, in my view, that the Commission's main role in preventing corruption, while at the same time the Commission must be the moral authority that people trust with it, I am convinced that we need such a President of the Commission to prevent corruption, who will enjoy the broadest possible confidence in society. This would be a basic prerequisite for the Commission to be able to work effectively to prevent corruption. The position of the President of the Commission to prevent corruption, as well as its two deputies, requires highly credible and professional individuals with particularly high personal integrity. However, when appointed to this position, a person who is not least the largest government party and is the leader of the country, but also has the same burden in his own ranks as the Commission's report to prevent corruption against their moment still frozen President Zoran Jankovic, does not have any predispositions of personal integrity for this situation. Also, Mr Štefanec as former official of the Union of Communists of Slovenia and the Secretary of the Municipal Committee of the Union of Communists in Murska Sobota is in no way fit for a position within the Commission to prevent corruption. All I can say is that in Slovenia, given all the warnings, and finally also by the retreated members or the Commission's retreated leadership to prevent corruption, we should finally bite the sour apple and take the right steps in the area of prevention and prosecution of corruption. Instead, unfortunately, we are going to this fiasco about the appointment of the leadership of the anti-corruption commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u82	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! With all the facts that are happening around the Commission to prevent corruption, I am very serious about whether we need such a commission at all. At the time of the appointment of the Anti-Corruption Commission, we have witnessed real burlesque. I remember when I was younger, when I was younger, that if we wanted to experience the real clown burlesque, we went to the circus. Today, however, it is very sad that circus contributions come from very serious institutions such as the government, not least the President of the country, and this is particularly worrying at this point. For me, this is very serious, very responsible institutions, where there is no need to joke. It is necessary to work seriously, and here again and again the question is whether we really need such a commission. If I look back at the Commission's past work to prevent corruption, I am particularly interested in results. In about 10 years of their work — what is the result of their work? How many cases have occurred in the final epilogue, except one which is politically motivated against President Janez Janša, who had to be discredited, removed, and discredited also the most powerful party body in the country. This is the only case we all know in Slovenia. Tell me another one in the last 10 years that this commission has brought to an end. I don't know any cases. Then I really wonder if the work of this commission is transparent, serious, fair and fair. I'm serious about that, but since the commission isn't like this, I don't think we need a commission like this at all. We have institutions and bodies in the country to carry out this commission's work. The police first. I think the police are doing their job pretty well. We all know an extremely large number of complaints filed by the police, but then comes the prosecution's sieve. But there is a great deal of commotion on this sieve, because there are few exceptions to this sieve. Can we then say that we are righteous, honest, and legal? Look who's still on that site. It looks like there has been no corruption in Slovenia in 10 years, except for a few exceptions. I'm saying that these institutions should do their job to bring things to an end regardless of the client, regardless of the status and so on. They're all supposed to be the same before marriage. They're supposed to be! Of course we haven't. Things are very simple. The D.A. has other pliers. One of these is the reverse of the evidentiary burden of property. Not that the institutes are looking for evidence of where and how someone got the property, but only the burden of proof must be reversed and then they can prove how they got the property. How many cases in Slovenia have been solved with the reverse burden of proof? I don't know anyone. But I know a lot of officials and those who really need to be asked a little bit about the origin of their assets – let them prove it. If they had three months to prove it, they'd have to prove it. Things are very simple, you have to have the will. They're pliers. They just need to be used. In my opinion, the CAP with such work, with such an approach and with such results over the last 10 years – this is not what our country needs.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Next up is Mr. Branko Smodish. He's being followed by a mag. Ivan Vogrin and Mr Branko Ficko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. All present, good afternoon! How nice it would be, and I think it would be best if we didn't need it, not for the Commission to prevent corruption, not for the Court of Auditors, not for the audit services to have as little work as possible, because we should all work fairly, fairly, impartially and legally. That would be really nice. But unfortunately, it's just Utopia, especially in modern times. It is really sad when we look at these surveys on corruption in Slovenia, which have been carried out by directors. One great grief. The level of corruption in Slovenia is worrying. Whether we admit it or not, corruption is a major problem today, so it would be very irresponsible for the anti-corruption Commission to be put out of the way. In particular, today we need a strong, independent and professional commission to prevent corruption, which will be part of its work and will have the reputation and support of the public. We all speak, and today, too, it has been repeatedly said that the fight against corruption is a priority. Let us, therefore, allow the new leadership of the PKK to carry out its mission in peace and independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! What is the purpose of science? The purpose of science is probably, at least that's how they taught me to simplify things. In the public administration, in the public sector, we have a lot of highly educated people, Masters, Doctors of Science and so on, but we've made things so complicated that I don't think we can find ourselves anymore. We do exactly the opposite — a lot of educated people complicate things, so we've made it so complicated that you can see where we are. I'll say it in a very simple way. I think we are working around the Commission to prevent corruption one big burlesque. I'll try to explain why. A while ago, I was talking to the director of a small fruit company. As the annual consumption of apples grew more and more rotten apples, productivity decreased, and also the Slovenian market decreased, as purchasing power decreased, a number of people – control chiefs, transparent services, some people in production and one marketer – became employed. And one year later, he realized that the results weren't any better, not to say worse, and he fired people, just like it was done. However, we have employed, as we have said, 40 top experts on the Commission, who are extremely data-gathering and anti-corruption. Then we have a Senate, but in 10 years we've come from the bottom of the ladder to the top. Isn't that proof enough that things aren't working? It's simple, ladies and gentlemen, it's not working. As the director of the fruit plant stated, that it does not work, that something needs to be changed, we should also change something. And Molière said, "We're not only responsible for what we do, but also for what we don't do." And we didn't do anything. And it's not the main problem in the KPK. Let's keep moving. Systemic corruption is the result of the adoption of system laws. Ladies and gentlemen, as long as we have such legislation that someone has to wait 8 months for a building permit to build a house until you have to call a hospital nurse, doctors and so on to come sooner than in one year’s turn – that means we have corruption. We've created the system completely! What did Matjaž Kovacic say last time? He said, "The main problem..." – he repeated this three times – "...are parliament and government." With the Energy Act, we've remade a new layer of those who prey. Ladies and gentlemen, we've been abusing corruption for 20 years because it's not possible to live here normally if you don't know someone unless you call someone, if you don't bribe someone, and so on. If anyone thinks otherwise, maybe they do. I find that hard to believe, too, but I'm sorry. So please, let's start doing our job, or people will call us to account because we don't do anything. Nothing! We haven't done anything in 20 years! And the country goes like a plane right over the ground, which is also dangerous. He might even get up a little bit, but Triglav's tall and he's gonna crash into Triglav. And we're gonna hit the ground. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Ficko has the floor. Prepare Mr Jožef Horvat and Mr Branko Kurnjek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Madam President. The question is, who can even lead the KPK if we already have it? The fact is that the competences are such that the leading functions in the KPK can only be performed by the most honest and impartial. You first informed the new leader that he was unknown in the field of expertise. Of course, because it comes from an undeveloped Prekmurje, where there are no large state companies, banks, insurance companies, and there are no large games or representations of their interests anymore. It's also a local feature. It's a sheet of unwritten paper, and then we need to find another formality that we call a client's book in a humble local committee in the pocket of an anonymous man. In the SDS you connect this immediately with the so-called left transition and then develop a story to disability. Perhaps you forgot to connect your new leader with some other well-known Prekmurks in politics. Apparently, searching through archives is the goal of only certain individuals selected. You also tell him he wasn't fit to be a Notary, a Judge, and so on. Not that he wasn't suitable, but he wasn't chosen. Apparently, he wasn't helped by any options, right or middle or left, if you want. It is necessary to continue to manipulate matters into what is called an agreed political project with uncles, grandfathers from the background. I agree with those who believe that the Commission should have clear criteria for the suitability of members, and even more so with the fact that the President of the State should explain his decision to the public on the basis of the facts. All these games, which are now taking place, could also be referred to as the disease of certain Slovenians. Any way you can find a formal flaw. The easiest thing to say is that a person with a client book is biased and unobjective. Everyone has political conviction. Most successful people have friends, relatives who are not irrelevant in social life. What can we think of such persons who are not so-called politicalally defined? From the point of view of corruption, in my view, such individuals may be most dangerous, as they often carry that love of themselves, of course having the opportunity to be in the trough. From this point of view, the recognition of belonging in my view is more frank. What would be the most appropriate thing at this point? The preliminary forecast on the basis of the facts found is inappropriate. Individuals should be given the opportunity to demonstrate objectivity and honesty in their work. We should all think more about the fact of who else is applying and why they are applying for public functions. At this point, it is only for the benefit of those who are and are still financially draining this country or being at the trough, even in droplets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Ficko, if you start beating – I have another half hour and you'll get back. The SDS is not the one that has in any way begun to question the role of Mr Štefanec's choice. Let's be clear here. Slovenia has as many research journalists as you want – Work, Dnevnik, Evening, POP TV, Nationalist, and we can list. But the research journalists didn't find anything. But the first one started this controversy was a private man who survives writing and writes Bojan Požar. He's the one who opened up the subject. I haven't seen any SDS statements in political circles for at least three days. At first, we could listen to the first Puchet in the state administration, that is, Mr Virant, who immediately said that something would not be right here. Then came Mr Erjavec, who has already learned abroad that much will have to be explained. Mr Han, who had a lot of comments, answered. Then we were all in line if we said anything. So you don't attribute this story to Mr. Stephen. I even said at the start that the choice of Mr Klemenčič, who has been a record politician for 10 years without a card, is a major problem for me. This Mr. Štefanec is some unknown person with a card. He is a minor problem for me, such as Mr Klemenčič's problem. So I'm asking you here if you're not hitting on the opposition or better trying to follow the facts. There's only two more answers I'd like to give you. On the other hand, let us have a respectful attitude towards the KPK. Yeah, we'd only make a cross, but it would be. "Let them work in peace," says Mr. Smodish. I agree with him if that were true, but it isn't. If that were true, but that's not true. It's a commission with political targets. That's the problem. They don't work independently, and that's the problem. To conclude, when we are already in these candidates, such or other, selection commissions, such or different ones. We have indeed – and I agree with you here – completely devalued certain things in this country, from the functions of the President of the country down to us Members, Ministers and others. But it's our own fault anyway. I read one extremely good tweet that says, "Let one propose me as Minister for one day, because it's the only reference that others have, and I don't." This tweet tells us a lot about how we have reduced all these functions in this country, how we have evaluated all these functions. But to a large extent, we are the ones who have also evaluated the parliamentary function, including in connection with the KPK, when the KPK said that the Mandate-Volution Commission acted corruptly because it appointed two people there. She stood up to us. She stood up to the constitution. Members shall be independent of the vote. And what did the left political option do? She leaned like a chicken, nothing else, and she said: yes, KPK is right, we will change the decision and we will give the new members of the Supervisory Board – I think it was FIHO. That's wrong. Instead of showing them their teeth and saying, "No, you're wrong." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u91	Thank you very much. I ask that in future discussions they be more respectful and not offensive. We are moving on to the next debater. It is Mr. Robert Hrovat's turn to meet Mr. Joseph Horvato.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, have you also noticed that in recent days no media has reported on the election of the President of the Republic of Slovenia? No one is reporting on Mr Štefanec's election as President of the KPK. Do you remember – this is a few days ago – how many questions have been asked, how many press conferences, how many shows in connection with the appointment of Mr. Stefanec have been in, say, the last 14 days? And how many questions did it ask? Do you know how many answers there were? Nothing. There was no concrete answer. I remember a few months ago when colleague Alenka sat here waiting for her outside the door — not one day, not two days, not one week, but 14 days. They waited 14 days for her and hunted down the statement she was about to make. This is where the whole thing went down. Don't talk about it anymore. Apparently, Mr Stefanec is acceptable to the regime media, I will just say so, and apparently they have decided to keep it the way it is. But that's not right, that's just not right. They didn't get any answers to the appointment questions. They did not receive any answers to the Commission’s questions. Regarding the destruction of magnetograms or sound recordings of interrogations, hearings — they disappeared and no one received an answer, why, what, how things would go on. If we go very specifically, the presidents of this commission, Mrs Habič and Mrs Kovac, could not explain why Mr Štefanec was appointed. We still don't know why he is. The sound recordings of the hearings have been destroyed. Why? Has everything been pre-arranged? Is that possible? I think there's a possibility, actually, because now there's a rough silence on the part of the media that, one day, maybe one and a half days of reporting these things very loudly. Now there's a grave silence. The latest developments regarding the appointment of the KPK Senate have indeed demonstrated the political interplay and the politicisation of the appointment of the KPK. The names of Mr Kos more than 10 years ago, Mr Klemenčič and now Mr Stefanec have one common denominator. And this common denominator is that the transition left always made sure that they were called "their people". Who can today, after all these peripetions that have been in the last 10 years, say that the appointment of Mr Kos was headed by the KPK O.K. and that it was not politically biased? I don't think there's a man in Slovenia who can confirm that. Who can say that the appointment of Mr Klemenčič was impartial and that it was not in the will of the political left? We all remember that Mr Klemenčič, when he was appointed Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior at the time of Pahor's Government, announced that he would leave his post in a short time. I think he gave his hand for six months if memory doesn't fool me. Why did he do that? Why did he foretell that he would withdraw from that position at the time of his appointment? My opinion is that because he was already pre-arranged to take over this function. And again, we're wondering if that was impartial. Of course it wasn't. Who named him? It was appointed by the then President of the State, Mr Danilo Türk, and no one can tell me or tell me that this was not a political appointment. Of course it was a political appointment. Every appointment is a political appointment if the hands have a policy, one way or another. And now the last appointment of Mr Štefanec, a member of Positive Slovenia. Nothing more now, but he was on appointment. The appointment and operation of the KPK have led to the point that even people, citizens and citizens, despite the very good serviceability of the regime's media, recognize that this is an institution to deal with political opponents. Earlier, colleagues from Positive Slovenia – I will be very specific, Mr Čehovin said that this meeting was unnecessary. I believe it's unnecessary for you. You will probably hear from every debater that Mr. Štefanec was a member of your party. And you ask us to calm down and give Mr. Stephenean an opportunity to prove his independence. How's he gonna prove it? It's impossible to prove it because it's politically detectable, one way or another. And with that, there's been a lot of damage. By making a correlation between all appointments so far, we see that it has always been the same. But now the media has jumped, jumped, but only for a day, maybe a day and a half. They are now silent, but all the appointments so far, the presidents or the KPK Senate, however you wish, have been in the same way. It was designed to satisfy the political left. It's always been like this. But now people have come to realize that. It is my feeling that no one believes that the Commission to prevent corruption in this composition, as it is now, can succeed. I don't think there's any more people in Slovenia. Everyone laughs and loathes in some way, and we go to the politicians. But interestingly, people point to all policies. And I say that it is necessary to make very clear who those who have called it, who are those who have proposed it. Earlier, it was also said that corruption was too much to be talked about, even in the National Assembly. And I think there's not enough talk about corruption. Of course, it is very important that corruption be pursued by those experts who are qualified for this work and pursued by an expert rather than a politician. We're talking about the police, the D.A. and the judiciary, and we want the Court of Auditors to take over the preventative. Now I'm going to give you an example to understand how people feel about this moment. I wonder what kind of storm would have arisen now if Dr Milan Zver had won the last election as President of the country and had been on the committee instead of Melita Župevc, Mr Jože Tanko. And the Commission would propose Janez Novak, a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party, but because he would have found out that he could be appointed President of the KPK, he would have stepped down that moment, stepped out of the party, and he would have been named President of the KPK by Dr Milan Zver. Now tell me if you would believe on your left that this is an independent candidate. Would you say that you don’t have to call an extraordinary meeting and talk about these things? Do you know what kind of storm would have occurred if this had actually happened? Here we can put an equation between what I have just said – of course it was rhetorical – and the actual situation that happened a few days ago when Mr Štefanec was appointed President. I guess no one would believe it's an independent candidate, just like no one believes it now. I, too, have not believed since 2004 that Mr Kos, Mr Klemenčič, and now Mr Štefanec have been independent. You too know that they were not independent, but the fact is that political elites are determined by will. I think they are highly dependent and have been set up to discredit political competition. That's dangerous. This proposal, which comes from our side in order to prevent the Court of Auditors from playing a preventive role, everything else about the prosecution of crime, corruption, police and the prosecution and the judiciary – we have a case solved, let's just give them the right powers they already have. It is a pity that this Commission, the anti-corruption commission, has been becoming or has been for some time now and will obviously remain a long-standing field for discrediting political competition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u93	Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor, followed by Mr Branko Kurnjek and then by Mr Jožef Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Mr. Secretary of State! This content, which is under discussion, is indeed of great concern to us. He even generates social depression somehow. It is no wonder that three quarters of Europeans, according to public research, say that corruption in Europe or in their Member States is very widespread and that even 91% of Slovenians agree that corruption is widespread in our country. In fact, colleagues and colleagues, for someone, forgive a little dramatic vocabulary, the increased malignant formation of this Slovenian society. This debate must also require a moral and ethical view of corruption. When you go for half a kilo of rye bread, go to the bakery or go to the supermarket, order bread, and put a sticker on the bread at which the price is. You go to the cashier's office and pay for this bread. Does anyone call the commercial director of the bakery for half a kilo of rye bread? Nobody or rarely anyone. When you buy an airline ticket, you go to the agency, you call or you open those computer letters, you open an online portal, and you look at the most advantageous cards. You have different offers, and you just order a map online. Is there anyone calling the commercial director of the airline for the airline map? Nobody or rarely anyone. That "rarely someone" is a problem. Because bread and plane tickets are the goods we buy. And it's a normal sale and a normal purchase, and it's not a normal sale and it's not a normal purchase. When corruption breaks out of control – today we say that we do not have control over corruption in Slovenia – organised criminal groups can merge with the country and it is a country of corruption. That's amazing. It is true that the Commission, in order to prevent corruption in last March's document, in its Assessment of the situation, announced that in Slovenia, in particular as regards the banking system, systemic corruption and political corruption. And here he makes a dot, and nothing happens. What is it now with the Commission to prevent corruption? Is it effective or not effective? Or we continue to deal with the issue of the rule of law or not the rule of law. We have a lot of work to do here, colleagues and colleagues. I am avoiding the opposition rhetoric because corruption is neither coalition nor opposition, but is the problem of this society that we have to solve. But in early February the European Commission issued the first report on corruption in the European Union, and when you read it, you stop breathing because it takes your breath away because it takes your breath away. The European Commission notes that at annual level, the European economy loses around €120 billion due to corruption. Unfortunately, it also notes what pains me particularly that there is no political will in Slovenia to prevent corruption. And now this situation that has arisen with this unfortunate Stephen – I think that the government should come here with a proposal for a law and this Parliament should accept it to do something. Does the Lord call or whatever to make us go to a more effective fight? [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Kurnjek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! We can ask ourselves whether we need the Commission to prevent corruption. If there is no corruption, if there is no corruption, and if there is no corruption in the future, then we do not need the Commission to prevent corruption, but this is an illusion, and we know that corruption is a problem in our country. If you allow me, I would only initially respond to some of the thoughts of my predecessors, in a purely positive sense. Mr Bogovic, who is not with us right now, said that KPK is becoming a toothless tiger. I agree with him, and personally I feel that a lot of people in this country are doing a lot of things to do that. Perhaps the choice of Mr Stefanec is one of these things, how to head the KPK, which in our society is one of the few bodies that has yet to be trusted. Mr Gorenak then spoke about whether President Pahor must now take full responsibility for his decision. I think not, but he must take on a large part of his responsibility, and he should be aware of it, and he should also say it clearly and loudly and take on responsibility, including himself. Not just him, but you should take over without evasive action. Mr Hrovat said a little earlier than the last speaker that the media had not reported on Mr Pahor's choice of Mr Stefanec in recent days. Of course not, because they report on Mr Virant and his airline tickets, if I make a little joke, or from today on possible – drowning or thinking – the early departure of the Minister of Health. If I look at the material that we have been given to convene today's meeting, it says, inter alia, that the fact that Slovenia has been steadily falling since the establishment of the KPK in 2004 on the corruption scales, from which we can conclude that the existence of the KPK does not prevent the increase in corruption in Slovenia, but vice versa. If the KPK was established in 2004, it is normal for Slovenia to fall on the corruption scales as the KPK began to point to this problem. And when this problem also arose in the public eye — only silently talked about it in the towers — we also officially began to fall on the scales of corruption. What does that mean? That it's the KPK's fault? Not because corruption is involved, but the KPK is responsible for us being so low on these scales because it has pointed to these problems. I do not want to put myself in the role of what I can do about Mr Stefanec being elected the next President of the PKK. That's also what Mr. Croat was talking about. I am not in this place, and we do not have the option of having any influence on his choice. But we can have our own opinion. And I agree with you that if President Milan Zved were to be president and choose such a procedure as you said, I would probably also challenge the other side, as we call it, to a choice. But what is left in this case if Mr Štefanec does not resign himself? We probably have to give him a chance to do his job, and we'll judge him by his work. I don't have a second option as an MP myself. Perhaps Mr Štefanec himself will take a step or, as has already been said today, he will also find a path that could or could not change matters. However, to judge certain acts that the candidate has not yet done, I do not want, I cannot and I do not hope. As I said before, KPK is one of the few organs in our country that enjoys trust among people. Do we have to take one of these rare organs from people? Do we have to show them that we're doing everything we can to head him? And maybe we're not doing this on purpose, but in public, it looks like it. I personally trust the KPK – not because of these events, because of the findings it has made. He may also make such observations as he may not like as a member of a particular party, but I will respect their possible decision, whether it is such or different, burdensome or non-burdening. But not because of himself, but because of the function he has in the country, a function that he does not perform because of us politicians, but because of the citizens. I wish the powers of the PSC weren't what they were. I would like her powers to be even greater and finally to win with these powers in the fight against what she is basically fighting. I believe that we all want corruption to become part of our past, and then perhaps we will never speak again, or the craftsmen will no longer need to rescue banks, recapitalise and enact such and other laws that burden citizens. Once again, both today's candidates and everyone else, I am putting my heart at heart to give the chosen leadership a chance. If not for this, for anyone else, but let him really fight for what he has to fight for. Then we may no longer have to discuss these things that I have already talked about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor as a proponent. Mr Jožef Jerovšek, Mr Jakob Preseknik and then Dr Ljubica Jelusič, should be prepared for him.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u98	Thank you very much. A few words about trust in the Commission to prevent corruption. That's right. This is a public opinion, but this opinion is made public and is not based on real facts. The Anti-Corruption Commission is working in its own way to get the president to stand in front of the cameras and start talking about horrible corruption in health care, and then he comes in front of the camera and talks about terrible corruption in banks, about how they kidnapped this country, and I don't know everything, but he doesn't say a single name, he doesn't say a single last name, and he doesn't do anything but send a bunch of papers to the police. And then this police is grinding, rightfully grinding for a year, two to prove anything, because it has to do so. That's not police criticism because he has to collect evidence. The Anti-Corruption Commission can sell and sell the fog, and the police cannot sell the fog to the prosecution, much less to the judiciary, and it is therefore perfectly logical that the Commission for the Prevention of Public Corruption enjoys its reputation. But who wouldn't support the position that we all know that there's been a lot of corruption in banks and that's why we have a 5 billion or 6 billion holes? That's what people feel in their pocket. It is only that little that Mr Klemenčič does when he repeats these things on television as a parrot. It's nothing. I need you to bring this case to the police and the D.A.'s office. So much for trust. We know how public opinion works. Public opinion is generated. And this public opinion has also been created, as the President of the country had to be brought out of the first place of that popularity and now we have a second one up. That's perfectly clear how it works. Someone behind Bežigrad – I’m reading here how they live with 300 euros in apartments with 80 square feet. I'm talking about them in the FDV, I'm talking about them. They then produce this public opinion. They find that we need a new client, they find that 40% of people need a new client and then they make one, and they're standing a little behind. The same thing is here with the Anti-Corruption Commission. It's exactly the same story. This is not a realistic opinion. The real fight against corruption is done by the police, the prosecution and the judiciary. But these gentlemen, instead of walking the Preventive Supervisor type, like I said, what's good is politics. They sit on coffee and set a target, and then they shoot that target. Of course not the ones they put in this place. That's understandable in itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Kurnjek asked for a replica. Here you go, Mr. Kurnjek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u100	Thank you. See, Mr Gorenak, I do not hope to judge whether public opinion research on the PKK has been created, because I would then wonder whether the current public opinion surveys showing the best result of the SDS have been created. [[advertising from the hall]] So you agree that these public studies that currently point to Aha, O.K., are created, okay, thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u101	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the next debater. Mr Jožef Jerovšek is on schedule.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Respected and respected! At a time when further efforts should be made in this country to prosecute corruption, there has been an outrageous shame in the selection of the candidate or in the whole process of choosing a new commission to prosecute corruption. This disgrace has also been one of the objectives of all that has happened, namely to reduce the rating, the reputations of the National Assembly, because a member of this Commission has also been a member of the National Assembly from a leading party, and if anyone, our Member, who is last but not least the President of the Mandate-Election Commission, should ensure the credibility of the election and also the choice in accordance with the applicable law, with the Rules of Procedure. No, it was different. They destroyed the audio footage. The whole evidence process, how it was manipulated, what was done, how some "tatka" was provided in the background, if you say the English word, was hidden. And when we see what lies at what level, then it is easier to understand how corruption is hidden in banks, how credit maps are hidden, how, despite the fact that this law on access to information has been reinstated today, it is only when this law is passed that two thirds of these bad loans are hidden because there are people in them who are protected by this current regime by the current authority in all ways. Also, when this procedure took place, which eventually paralysed the next anti-corruption commission if it was chosen, because it was a mercy shot in the operation of this anti-corruption commission. At this point, I did not notice or assure you that you, for example, in Positive Slovenia, in the coalition, however you dared to do so. It was really two days of media attention, even a bit of disgust that it happened, and then it was all quiet. I thought Mrs. Melita Zupevc would be the first among your discussers to explain for 30 minutes what happened. If it were transparent, right and correct, this would probably happen. Thus neither did the Secretary-General of the Government, who is also a member of this selection committee, attend this meeting. People of God, who's to tell us what the plan and the script was? You're protecting everything that's happened. I have not heard that the Member and her party intend to withdraw any logical and necessary political sequences. I didn't hear that. Of course, in such situations it is clear in advance that if, in accordance with this procedure, a selected and functioning anti-corruption commission is chosen, that you have already ordered it to act strictly politically and that, in matters of the country's greatest corruption, for example, in banks, it must not involve any person, because there are protected, dedicated people for that corruption. Now it's breaking open that this thing has a significantly longer beard. How carefully this left coalition always plans these human resources procedures when it comes to such appointments to anti-corruption bodies or, for example, to bodies that run capital investments or the Slovenian economy. There is, as in the former party, the recruitment of the mother of all proceedings, and you have transferred this from the former party to this Parliament and have kept it for today. For this reason, the state stands, as it stands, in such a desperate state. However, I must say that when the law under which this selection commission worked was first sent to the National Assembly at the time of the Pahor government, it was envisaged in the draft – here I have a copy of the first version – that a member of the election commission from the National Assembly is appointed by the Commission for the supervision of public finances of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Someplace, on some segment, it was meant to be good, and then at another reading, it was replaced by the National Assembly, i.e. the coalition, to appoint a member of the selection commission. If this were to be done, firstly, the National Assembly would have the option of vetoing the Commission's proposal to oversee the public finances of the National Assembly, and do not worry that this Commission, which is the majority opposition, would propose a credible man. Don't worry, because you would have an interest in the person they're proposing being chosen, or you wouldn't have been able to go through most. Secondly, I would fight to fight corruption in this country in a transparent way. To me, with so much experience, it was clear that this would be changed in the second reading, and the then left coalition changed that. A proposal was made by the current selection commission system with all the consequences that have now become a little more visible. But it was planned that yes would remain under strong control, which personnel would come to such a commission. Here he wondered how many predictions and a successful fight against corruption had been made today. He gave the example of Mr Gaspard Gaspard Mišić, who made promises in order to vote, I do not know what. I really remember that, too. But as soon as he was installed, he renewed his ice-freezing expertise, for an Antarctic freeze, and all those procedures he promised were frozen. All the cabinets are strictly frozen, they can no longer be opened, and none of them looked. And that's the way it is with these people in all areas. They mostly protect corruption. They protect irregularities in the past, and in this way, we must tell our public, we will not come forward. I have to warn you again. I've been on the board for the last time. I am convinced that even those who are party members or even exposed members can be virtuous. There would also be people in this hall who, if put on such a committee, could be trusted. At that point, he'll say, "I'm in this position and I'm going to do strictly by law, strictly what people expect." The last time I said that I was surprised that this commission or someone did not publicly say that they would invite, say, Mira Petk, who they wanted to kill for the fight against corruption, to apply and to be elected. I am 100% convinced that with the same energy, with the same distance to everything, I would fight corruption as he fought as a journalist. However, such personnel are not acceptable for this option. Ladies and gentlemen, that is why it is true, as my colleague said: we must come with a serious project to Parliament, how to skip this. Let's make a suggestion, let's do something, or this country will continue to sink very rapidly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Preseknik, who is not currently in the Chamber, is next in line for discussion, so he has the word of Dr Ljubica Jelusič. It is followed by Mr Daniel Krivec and Mrs Marija Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u104	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Nice hello to you all! Some of those mentioned in the previous debate are not here and cannot defend themselves. It was mentioned that the Secretary General of the Government was supposed to be here next to our member of the Magi. Melite Župevc and she's supposed to answer questions about how the selection committee worked. I would like to point out that in Article 9 of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, there is no indication that the selection commission would be responsible to the National Assembly for its work. We did not write this down when the law was born in 2010. If you think that this should be done in the future, we should discuss this, but it is not right that we today demand responsibility from someone whose law did not foresee that he should report to Parliament for his work. Besides, I think he's a mag. Melita Župevc, in her discussion at the outset today, made it very clear that the members of the selection committee must respect certain principles of the protection of confidential data, and, as far as she can tell, she has already explained to us about the functioning of the selection commission and would probably not have heard from any other members of the selection commission. So it seems to me that it is not good to create some false belief that someone has to answer us here, if not in law and not in procedure – because this procedure, as stated in Article 9, shows more that the election commission is responsible to the President of the Republic than to the National Assembly, and probably to those who propose it. However, our debate today would put it in a slightly broader context than the current debate. First, we have to find out we're in an election year. We have Europe's elections ahead of us and later the local elections, and we are in the year when the main points of the pre-election programmes are being gathered, which will be needed for 2015 and for parliamentary elections. In addition, we are at a time when there is a very large and in-depth lack of confidence in most state institutions in our country. And it was naive to expect that any public issue, and in general the issue related to human resources procedures, would go without scandal in such circumstances. Scandals are needed because there is indeed some irregularity and, as a rule, they are needed in order to develop a political fight on these issues. I think that we are now in exactly the situation where, due to the need for political struggle, we are scandalising all kinds of public proceedings, and regardless of who would be elected president of the Commission's anti-corruption Senate, we would in any case find some points at which we could scandalise ourselves. Even though this would be a top-level expert and not a concrete Mr Štefanec, I am convinced that this other candidate would also be mined with a whole range of known and unknown data that would certainly be found for the purposes of political struggle. When I say that we are living in a period of great mistrust in state institutions, it is logical that certain categories, including political elites, are in great interest that those who fight against the causes of mistrust in state institutions, and these are certainly those who are corrupt in politics — those who fight against these causes also do not trust in the pranger, and it is logical that they are thus constantly criticising the functioning of the Commission for the prevention of corruption. If we went to look at some of the conclusions that have been drawn up by the applicants for today or compared these conclusions with today's debate, we would see that we spent 4 hours in the introduction to the first decision. There has not been much talk about the other conclusions today in this debate, and I would like to know when the applicants will move on to a slightly more detailed explanation of their expectations, how to do this differently, either with a new anti-corruption law or with the new delegated tasks of the current anti-corruption role of the Commission. In short, when will they move on to these other conclusions? Except for one decision that you have often mentioned or one of the claims that has not been heard in the debate so far. So far, we have discussed in particular the procedures for the appointment of a new Chamber of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, and in the end, if this continues, we will probably be able to adopt such a decision and we will not be able to take any more of it. Another thing you have mentioned quite often is that supervision of officials' assets is transferred to the Court of Auditors. I would like to know whether what the Constitution says about the functions of the Court of Auditors and what is stated in the Court of Auditors Act does not correspond to your perceptions that we have the Court of Auditors to control the use of public funds or funds from the State budget and not to control the private property of public officials. I think that the Government's response has also made it very clear that the Court of Auditors is not in charge of the control of private property and private resources either by individuals or by some institutions. Unless you think that Slovenia should give up slightly compared to other countries where accounting courts are used from the European level down to control public funds. The second thing I would like to point out is this interesting comparative study, which the applicant referred to and by which he proved that the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption in such a capacity and in such an organisational form as we have it, is not needed because it is not available to other countries. I think it is necessary to ask what kinds of political systems other countries operate into and how, in general, essentially before Slovenia after 1991, they have also regulated their political systems so that they can effectively prosecute corruption. However, it seems that the case of Austria, which you have specifically highlighted, respected Mr Vinko Gorenak, shows that this country does not feel properly organised to fight corruption by its current arrangements, and in recent years there has been an increase in the number of different types of organisational forms that try to address this issue. If you wanted to say exactly what you wanted to say, it would be right for us all to know that Austria has a federal anti-corruption office. It was established in 2010 and established in the Ministry of the Interior, but it is explicitly written that it is independent of the police because their Ministry of the Interior deals mainly with police public security issues. However, this office was organised with great care and much debate on the need to ensure its independence. It was likely that the debate on the independence of this body was very similar to our Slovenian debate a few years ago when you wanted to have the Commission to prevent corruption as an independent body. Secondly, Austria also has a special prosecutorial authority. He has a Central State Prosecutor's Office for the Prosecution of Economic Crimes and Corruption. It is also said that in the prosecutor's system with a special authority, he wants not only to prevent but, above all, to prosecute and investigate corruption. And then from 2013 onwards, at the Federal Ministry of Justice, another kind of strategic body to coordinate all forms of fight against corruption, this is the coordinating committee to fight corruption. We see that they have at least three organisational bodies, and the number or formation of these bodies shows that in this near past Austria is facing corruption issues that it is trying to prevent or confront with some increasingly appropriate form of institution. We must not forget, however, that if you speak to ordinary people and experts in Austria today, they will tell you that despite all these authorities at their disposal, the country has failed to respond adequately to their biggest Eurocopter arms affair. These matters have not been resolved in an appropriate manner. Many politicians were found to have been involved in this affair, but the system, as it is, failed to punish them in an appropriate manner, at least not as the public expected in a country with high standards of critical attitude towards corruption. The second case to be mentioned and not mentioned in this comparative study is Finland. Finland is not mentioned here, and this is interesting because for many years we have believed that Finland is a country with very high standards of both moral condemnation of corruption and systematic persecution of corruption. And then there was the Patria affair when members or high-ranking representatives of the Patria Group found that in obtaining business in Slovenia and Croatia they acted in a locally appropriate manner. What does that mean? That corruption has been exported from their country to other countries, as high standards of critical attitude towards corruption in their country prevent them from doing so at home. However, these methods, corrupt methods for obtaining business, have been used in other areas or in other countries of Europe. I will not say that in all likelihood, but I hope very much not in Slovenia. While we have this international comparison ahead of us, it is good to know that in each country we are still creating these bodies to deal with the problems we have, in line with our political system, and that a purely horizontal international comparison is not possible to work. It must also be seen that the development of certain institutions is also taking place in all countries due to widespread corruption in the European Union. The last thing I would like to point out in connection with the debate on the selection of the first man or first lady of the Commission to prevent corruption is the issue of political or political party membership. Some of you have so far criticised in your deliberations the fact that the chosen Mr was a member of the political party. I wonder whether this form of thinking is appropriate for all members of political parties to come from our mouths, or whether it is appropriate for us to put ourselves at the head of the criminalisation of membership in political parties. In fact, every day we re-apply criticism material to all those who criticise the party-cracy in this country, who say that the parties are essentially one of the companies, away from real problems by mechanisms in which it is not possible to believe that everyone who is a party member is corrupt after the defolk. We are the ones who should say that membership in a party is not a matter of prosecution, but is a consequence of freedom of association, is a result of constitutionally guaranteed rights, and that all or most of us who are members of political parties think honestly and with good intentions, including to the public, to public, to public funds and to the resolution of problems in the public. But if we criminalize party membership, let us not expect the public, the media, or even those who want to see us as villains to act differently. I'd keep going, but I think Dr. Gorenak's colleague is gonna say something else on my account, and I'm gonna leave a minute for the replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u106	Thank you very much. No, I wanted to say above all that I am pleased with the cultural level of debate you had. Even though I do not agree in some segments, even in many, it is possible to have such a very cultural debate, not in the way we have received it in the National Assembly, as I call it. As far as party membership is concerned – absolutely. We've done in this country today, I'll say, the recent criminal associations, no matter which party they are. I agree that we should look at this a little differently. I support what you're saying. About Finland. Maybe so. You are the first person in the National Assembly to have raised this research assignment in our research centre since November. I am very grateful that you have done this, and I am very grateful that you have read this, because it is then possible to have an argumentative discussion, but not like some who are just cheating on stupidity, and they have not even smelled the basic text of this research task on the situation of similar institutions in the European Union countries. As far as Finland is concerned, I regret that it is not in, but usually this research service in the National Assembly sends certain questions to the parliaments of other countries, and where in due course, in a month, two, it gets answers, it enters into the common text. Apparently, Finland did not respond, but I would be happy if that information were in there. But I don't agree with what you're saying. In 2007, we also discussed the transfer of property control to the Court of Auditors – the proposaler Dr. Virant – and no one questioned the constitutional position, as you say. The constitutional position is a matter of the Constitutional Court. They'll tell you whether that's right or wrong. So I don't think there's any particular problem if we take this to the Court of Auditors. You say the other conclusions. We don't even have conclusions anymore. The coalition majority has destroyed the proposals of conclusions on the parent labour body, just as it has done since this coalition exists. I think that this coalition has not yet been able to take one decision on similar cases of our proposals, let's say that it is Monday, because we would probably vote against it. I will make sure that the next time we make such a decision, we will see if we are against it. They'll probably go against it. But it is true, dear Dr. Jelusic, that we have proposed a second and third decision. We made it very clear, and in the opening act, I also said what we were expecting. We expect that corruption, in the true sense of the word, will be dealt with by criminals, police officers, prosecutors and in the final stage by judges and not by the commission. In this context, it is said that the Commission is not concerned with taking these powers away from it. This means that a number of people who previously worked on the police can work back to the police — this is no problem — to move to the Court of Auditors to control the assets of officials, which was confirmed by the former President of the Court of Auditors in 2007 and even said that he does not need any additional staff to do so in order to enable him to carry out this task. Thirdly, though, the material says that we would still have a job in the interior or judicial ministry – as our proposal. As far as I'm concerned, the commission may be just like that, but it is necessary to have preventive tasks, to continue producing certain products of the Supervisor type, because these are useful things, and not to deal with some of the principled opinions where the mayor bought three carnations, which they are dealing with today. Then they are working on how to justify that Mr Stepišnik has legally received EUR 348 000. And that's gonna find an apology. They've been dealing with airline tickets for a year now, and they find that everything's fine because Dr. Virant didn't do it, but his wife did it with a friend. These are things that you would say to farmers: Chickens will laugh at you — when someone can say something like that and write what that commission has done. Because then it's exactly the same if my wife makes a deal with someone to do half the house for free, and she'll give him one exam. Do I have nothing to do with this? Technically, I may have nothing to do with it, but then I live in a house like this, and I get a lot of benefits from it. We cannot justify the situation in such a banal way as Mr Klemenčič has done in relation to these cards. We can't, and there's no excuse for that. As they say on farmers: chickens must laugh at such decisions. There's a problem here. You're saying that the election commission is not responsible to the National Assembly. That is true, but I still think we can discuss her work. After all, there is no reason for us not to debate, but I am a different opinion from you when you say that some scandal was needed because of the elections. This scandal was not done by the opposition. Let's be very clear about this. If you see this as a scandal with Mr. Stephenac, he didn't start with the opposition parties, and he didn't do it in any way. At first I saw Mr. Firer's writing, and then I saw Mr. Virant, Mr. Han, on television. Everyone was critical of how this could have happened, everyone was scheming this matter. Then came the positive Slovenia, which tried somehow to justify and pass on to Mr Pahor. That's how I saw it. We've been silent for three days in the opposition. The scandal, if it is, must be somewhere near you, not on the side of the opposition. Even that part with Mr Kurnjek – of course, when polls show SDS victory, then lose, and vice versa. Therefore, such surveys are not to be trusted, that is clear. The year 2004, 2008, 2011 is typical evidence of this. When gentlemen with FDV produce our victory by 10%, then we usually lose the election when they show us 10 minus and we get them. That's the way it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Ms Marija Plevčak is next on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. We have heard a great deal about this anti-corruption Commission of ours, especially because it is involved in electing this body. It would not be repeated, but it is likely that the error has been made both with the selection committee and with the president of the country who would probably have the opportunity to change his decision or not to take the decision of the selection commission. Although it has been repeatedly indicated here that we do not need a KPK, my opinion is different. We need the Commission to prevent corruption, because corruption has been too long for us and has brought us into the situation we are in in addition to the crisis. We need a commission that will be a politically independent and sovereign body, because it must act without anyone in our policy responding, of course, according to all the rules and rules that legislation imposes. We know that we deal with a lot of corruption in the banking system, in health care, even in education, especially in higher education, because we read new and new articles in newspapers. Corruption, clienteleism, supervision of the assets of officials – these are things that the Commission will have to scrutinise to prevent corruption. Of course, no commission will, at the will of political parties or political elites, because the Commission's proposals and conclusions to prevent corruption are the basis for the work of the police, the national investigative authority, the prosecution and then the courts. For what the KPK finds in writing, it intercedes, and it cannot find fault or condemn. Of course, in all these developments in the KPK, at least so far, there has been great political pressure on these authorities. I believe that the Commission to prevent corruption is also the Supreme Supervisor in the fight against corruption. Corruption can thus threaten our rule of law, weakening our political stability and social peace. These things are felt on the periphery between people. This is expressed with dissatisfaction, so I think that the choice of the KPK should also have good candidates and make the right choice. I will not evaluate the current KPK President because I do not know him, but, as has been said many times, an opportunity must be given, and if irregularities are found, a withdrawal or replacement should be requested.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak as a proponent. After him, Mr. Franz Pukšič, Msa Kociper and Mrs Eva Irgl.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Just one correction, Mrs. Plevčak. The Commission's work to prevent corruption is no basis for police work because it cannot be. We need to know something – what happened before 2004, when these commissions were gone? Couldn't the police work? It has worked from scratch forward, in different forms. Therefore, there is no link between the work of the Commission to prevent corruption and what criminals do. The Commission does not have any powers to prevent corruption in terms of covert investigative measures, interrogations, this and that, guidance from the prosecution. This is the problem – because there is no connection and because it represents, if I banalize a bit, just a mailbox. It's a kind of post office box to collect some complaints, suspicions of crimes, and mostly anonymous ones who then look at them and say, "Yes, but this could be something." And then they give it to the police. And many things are already said at the KPK that there is no salt here, as it is called, because people sometimes think that they are doing some terrible wrong, that there is some corruption, and I don't know what it is, and they report the KPK, and she says it's nothing, and she doesn't even send it to the police. Where he thinks something might have happened from the description, he sends it to the police. But I would like to point out that this is not the basis for police work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u113	I'm sorry, Mr. Puksich. Mrs. Plevčak, do you have a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u114	I just want to say that I may have misspoke. The Commission's final findings to prevent corruption are likely to be a basis for some proceedings to be initiated, but not to be a criminal authority or something like that.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Puksič has the floor [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Once again a nice greeting to my colleagues and colleagues, the Secretary of State! As for the change of law in this area, we have been finding for quite some time, and even by the coalition, even when it was in opposition, it was heard that something had to be done. When someone prepares something, and if it's a form of opposition, it's the easiest thing to do with the arrogance of most people, and then things don't go on, instead of taking it seriously. Even with amendments, certain things could be changed, supplemented and finally adopted by a law, saying that he had been adopted by the National Assembly, not that usually the legislation is opposed by the opposition, but not just by anger, but because he can't get through any of the things he thinks are good. The way he is turned out to be bad. That the President of the State writes to the President of the National Assembly and to the President of the Government and cries out inside that he doesn't even know what to do with this legislation, and I don't know what to do – it's simply putting the burden on others. Someone has already said in the debate today that he is the president of the country, and it is true. His responsibility is great, and if he decides to do so, his responsibility is to create such "steel" as it is, even greater. Such a letter means that he somehow apologizes and purifies himself, puts responsibility on another and cleanses himself. That's not working. It is clear that the Commission and the composition of the Commission by the National Assembly have certainly been the most helpful in this regard. Can you imagine Jože Tanko sitting on this committee and proposing to the President of the National Assembly, Branko Grimes, President of the KPK? Why wouldn't it be like that? Why not? Or Joseph Jerovšek and Branko Grimes. Now it was all right, and on top of that, they probably burned or what you did with those records or the government secretary or whoever did it — you burned or hid, covered. That's how it's done. Yes, of course, when it comes to ours. When they're ours, when we're us, then we can do whatever we want. And the other god, don't! Let's leave this sandstone and see what the Turks do. Who it is already – Turkey, those we think are only collecting garbage in Europe and what others do not want. The government of Erdogan opened a scandal there in December. I think I listened 14 days ago to reports that those ministers were already informed that things were going as they were supposed to, in the courts and so on. I'm sure it won't be six months, and the courts will do their part. If they're guilty, they'll be convicted, but if they don't, they'll forgive. No, we drag two years, three years. I know about one thing from the previous commission when colleague Alenka Jeraj led us when we received a 2008 document from the tax administration. Today we are in 2015, and although there is more than a million euros in money evasion, nothing has happened yet. The boys are still riding the Mercedes, and nothing's happened yet. You may also need someone like that at KPK to protect certain people. Actually, it's sad. I was in Prekmurje this weekend, and I was talking to some people, reluctantly or unwillingly, and I don't know, and they told me that things weren't that simple, but that certain things were run and known in advance. My vision – I think it is the task of the KPK to identify violations of the law on integrity and corruption, but it is not the task of the KPK to identify violations of other legislation. He cannot find out, but he gives an opinion: they think that someone was working contrary to the law on, I don't know, the Court of Auditors, the law on public procurement, contrary to what could be decided by the Public Procurement Commission and so on. Such things are also dragged to the KPK for more than 2 years, so insignificant. Finally, they find that there was nothing wrong with violating their legislation, the law on integrity and corruption, but they think there was something wrong somewhere else. Thinking means knowing nothing. It's not like that. An organ that can only think is lame. The authorities must decide and decide who is responsible. The shoes belong to the hooves and no one else. If there are still courts in the country, then certain cases should be decided by the Court of Auditors and the Public Procurement Commission, and so on. And at that, the police and the D.A. do their thing. The task of the KPK is to find out, in accordance with the law, that someone has violated the law on integrity and corruption – this would automatically sign up to a law enforcement authority that would take the matter forward. This does not mean that it would be for the highest authority, the National Investigation Office. Perhaps this could even be determined by law according to the extent of the violation. In such cases, the courts would, of course, remain the authorities when it comes to a court to determine whether or not it will be dealt with at all, have to do so because it is a matter of public officials, and even more so when it comes to the policies of the highest metal – from the President of the State, the Government down to the National Assembly, the Council, Members and Ministers. This should then be completed by the authorities at least half a year. Things shouldn't go the way they do. This creates some kind of climate that's just not good. A while ago, if anyone was talked about being on KPK, he was already condemned as a criminal. Today, when you talk about KPK, people laugh: Yeah, that's it. That's not good, and that's the kind of "steel" that these institutions shouldn't do. The other institutions involved should also do their job.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Franz Puksich. The next one is Mrs. Masha Kociper. It is followed by Mrs Alenka Pavlič and Mag. Stanko Stepišnik and then Mr Zvonko Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u118	Thank you very much. I would split my discussion at the point entitled Proposal for a Decision on the procedures for the appointment of a new Commission leadership to prevent corruption and to organise and work it into two sets. The first is the appointment process and the second is the organisation and work of the Commission and the fight against corruption in general. If I start the appointment process, which has been extremely criticised in the past days by the media and the public, I can first conclude that Positive Slovenia was unable to influence this appointment process and was not able to influence it personally because the amendment of the law in this area was in force in 2011. At that time, our coalition partner SD led the government, and I am convinced that, given that many additional powers were given to the anti-corruption commission at the time, the purpose of the coalition was to strengthen its fight against corruption and to strengthen this institution. The appointment process is supposed to be inappropriate and completely impractical. I have to say, I don't quite agree. I am sure that the candidates had a rally when they proposed such a procedure as now – a procedure where an expert commission, a selection commission finally submits a proposal for a candidate or candidates and elects and appoints the President of the Republic. All those who speak of political appointment are right in the work of the President of the Republic of Politics. But I wonder whether they would not be equally critical even if this committee, which controls the wealth situation of politicians and so on, called the National Assembly because they are also in the National Assembly of Politics. So, in this criticism in both directions, and even when I think about any changes to this law, I ask what kind of appointment would be possible, which would be appropriate for all and would not give any doubt that policy would interfere with this appointment. I wonder if that kind of appointment is even possible. I also object — something has already been said today — to the fact that politics prevails in this appointment. On the electoral commission, as it is now established, political representatives cannot possibly prevail. Of the five members, only two could be appointed conditionally as a member of the policy, namely a representative of the Government and a representative of the National Assembly. So if we look at the fact that, on the other hand, we have the Council of Justice, civil society in the fight against corruption and the Council of Officials, which is usually represented by the first staff in the country – someone must have human resources and behaviour to lead this process – there is no way I can agree that the current policy can have a key impact on appointment. The procedure is also designed for the final election of the President of the Republic. This may be proposed by the selection committee, either refusing or appointing candidates. Furthermore, the procedure is confidential in the sense that the legislator is likely to have wanted to prevent the discreditation of members and influence in the selection process. All of this, I am sure, was the positive intentions of the legislator who accepted this arrangement. But if we are now going to a specific case of the last appointment, we can see that a major dissatisfaction with this procedure has come from the fact that he was called the wrong person, a candidate who does not correspond to anyone. Mr Štefanec is no longer a member of our party, and I am convinced that he also regrets that he has involved himself at any time, because from his point of view all he has done is that he has applied for a public invitation to tender, that he was a member of a political party before that, believing that his duty under the Constitution and the law was not to explain what his political belief was, because the legal conditions do not require it. In the end, we have a victim, a candidate who has been named, with whom no one, as it were said, is satisfied, and whom everyone is calling for a resignation. But we have little touch on the problem – some today have it – who can even be a suitable candidate for such a function. If this cannot be anyone who has ever been a member of a party, then let us really write it down as a legal requirement. But then we must also consider compliance with the Constitution, which even in the case of judges speaks only of the fact that they must not be members of the parties' bodies. We also need to ask ourselves what we are telling the public about this. I found it very interesting to have a similar debate with Mrs Jelusic. It is said that being a member of a party is something that is repulsive. Don't do that if you ever want to run for some serious position, it's our message to the public. I would like to recall that all democratic systems around the world that have parliamentary democracy also know parties and that in this democratic system that has been established in most of the modern developed world, it is the party's membership that allows party members, party leaders to run for elections and then influence the country's leadership, the exercise of public authority, the functioning of a state apparatus and so on. If you want to influence the functioning of the country in a transparent way, you join the party. If you don't want to do this, you can hide behind some lobby, some interests, and do it in other ways. Let us ask ourselves, Is it really so repugnant that people who have serious intentions should not go into this. There are other options – we also know countries that do not have parliamentary democracy, have no customers, have dictatorships, and if anyone likes it, then this is another option. As for the eyes of Positive Slovenia, that it influenced the choice of a particular candidate, and even some conspiracy theories, I would like to strongly reject them once again. Not me and not my colleagues, Mr. Stephen. He was not an active and recognized party member, as he now wants to be seen. He attended some meeting of the party members, and none of us, for the first time, knew him very well, and for the second time, because of the nature of the procedure he did not know he was running for office in this process. When the only member of the selection committee from our party learned this, she immediately announced it, and the selection commission decided once again, with five to nothing, with no vote against it. So those who have doubts about this choice need to know that the expert committee has been very diverse in this proposal. I myself have some concerns about this procedure, which relates to the functioning of the selection commission, but relates in particular to this derogation between the functioning of the selection commission five years ago and today. Here, as I said on the committee, I would like to hear an explanation for the first election committee of Mrs Polonce Kovac, who has already led this process for the first time, why there have been derogations, why they submitted candidates to the President of the Republic five years ago, together with explanations, who is suitable, who is not and why not, why not, why the magnetograms were destroyed so quickly, and in particular why he led the proceedings separately for members of the Senate and for the President of the Senate. These are all the professional concerns that need to be considered and answered if legislation changes. In this regard, I should also remind you once again that even five years ago, as many of you have said, a number of concerns have been raised regarding the appointment of the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, which is now considered to be a national hero. Even then, at the time of his appointment, many of them recognized — one of the Senate members even stepped down — that this was a politically profiled man who had previously been a member or prominent government official. Speaking of which, let me rephrase the case I mentioned on the committee. The President of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, who eventually decided on the most receptive and most important, including political matters, was a member of the political party and a member of one of the political parties, if we are already thinking in this direction. So much for the appointment process. As regards the organisation and work of the Commission, the proposer, the SDS party, at least we cannot say that it is not consistent. The proposer shall continue to advocate the abolition of the anti-corruption commission. He thinks it is unnecessary and that other authorities, law enforcement and so on can do this work. Positive Slovenia is different. We stress and continue to believe that the Anti-Corruption Commission, with some powers under our Constitution, is necessary, in particular in the pursuit of systemic corruption, in identifying the reasons for systemic corruption, in preventive action, in alerting to anomalies and so on. However, the debate of the three eminent constitutional lawyers on the proposal for future legislation has highlighted exactly what we in Positive Slovenia have always warned – that the current law has some shortcomings, in particular in the sense that adequate legal protection is not provided for persons in the process and that they do not have the right legal remedy. These are two different things for those you know. One thing is that people in the process do not have the necessary rights, minimum rights according to what sanctions are under these procedures. Second, they do not have legal protection to prove that they have been wronged. The fact that someone finds out about the deadly report that he cuts off in his integrity from the media without being aware of the Commission’s opinion in order to be able to read it in peace has prepared himself for the media stampede — a minimum standard that even the worst criminals in criminal proceedings have received. Even a convicted multiple killer has the right to see the judgment first, to read what he is convicted of, and then to respond to media reports when the court brings judgment. So we definitely agree with the proposaler at least in that there is a need for legislative changes in this area, and I think that this expert group, which commented on the law prepared by the President of the KPK, has done a lot of work and highlighted the most important dilemmas. However, it is important to tell those who have read this that, before the proposed law proposed by the KPK, it was quite critical and explicitly stated in certain places that this law exercised certain police powers, which are totally inappropriate for such legislation. At the same time, experts also note that such police notices have already existed in existing legislation and that both are not okay. They also make suggestions on how to resolve this. So I think that here we will be able to agree on the need for Members of all colours and species to listen to these legitimate concerns of the three experts coming from very different sides. Police powers and repressive authorities are indeed well-known in this country, and in this regard this distinction will have to be made and is also necessary. Regarding the fight against corruption, Positive Slovenia takes very seriously the fight against corruption and does not, in spite of this professional concern, discredit the anti-corruption commission. The ones you say you're wrong about. That is our policy, which we have decided in the parliamentary group. This is also the policy of our President of the Government, who has specifically called on all the party presidents to refrain from any distortions of the supervisory and other state authorities, but unfortunately some have not listened. That the purpose of this government is serious, it also shows that in the coalition agreement it has given the fight against corruption as one of its priorities and that it has already adopted a decision by the Government concerning the implementation of all 15 points proposed by the PKK at the time of its resignation. As you all know, at its resignation, the anti-corruption commission proposed 15 points that would be necessary to combat corruption in that country, and at its meeting the government adopted appropriate conclusions, where it supported all 15 points, ensured that they would be implemented, stated in what way, set the deadlines and so on. What other government has not been able to do this in the past. For all 15 points, the government has not only said that it will try to realize them, but it has already begun to realize them. On this basis, the fight against corruption in the field of TES has already adopted a necessary amendment to the legislation to be reflected in the SDH Act. If necessary, the Law on the revision of the TES 6 project will also be adopted. The Act on Access to Public Information was adopted. We decided on a veto today. It has already been recommended that a legislative trail be introduced into the legislative process. The recommendation has already been adopted to increase the powers of investigative bodies in the field of banks. Thus, several provisions were introduced in the Banking Act and the Bad Bank Act, which provide that, when suspected irregularities are detected, the banking authorities must report to law enforcement authorities and so on, and could also list them. All the concrete signs that this government is serious about fighting corruption, and what other government that has had these opportunities in the past has spoken of it as if it had done something. I conclude that in Positive Slovenia we continue to support the fight against corruption, we support the existence of an anti-corruption commission, but we want to actively participate in amending legislation on the recommendations of the three experts. In the light of these recommendations, changes to legislation will not be possible immediately. This is a matter of some systemic concern. However, we certainly think that we can come to legislation that in this area for which the PKK was established represents some added value in respect of fundamental human and constitutional rights. We regret that the KPK has stepped down. That seems like an absolutely wrong move to me. Their argument that they're toothless tigers is by no means sustainable. I think that in the past it has been shown that virtually no institution in the country has the same power as the KPK. Let us not forget, the prosecution and the judiciary cannot organize press conferences daily and comment on specific cases. They're very limited. The KPC has a number of options, which have also been very widely used in this mandate. So this tiger is certainly not toothless, and if he wanted to, he could bite for a while. But that's how they gave up halfway and now we're where we are. We can hope that the anti-corruption commission will soon come to life and work as it should in the systematic fight against corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The next one is Mr Zvonko Černač. It is followed by Mrs Alenka Jeraj, Mr Tanko and Mr Möderndorfer. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor on a procedural basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u120	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues! More than four and a half hours of meetings of the National Assembly are under way. The government has sent a clearly the greatest anti-corruption expert, Mr Šefic, to the National Assembly, and in these four and a half hours has not been able to explain or explain to the proposer, not to the sending group, nor to the other discussers anything in this area, absolutely nothing. I think that the Government's conduct is very irresponsible and even inappropriate, even to the National Assembly, that government officials, government officials representing the Government, do not talk or talk about the subject of the agenda. There is no problem with the participation of government representatives, for example, at what council in the State Council when they talk about some general topics. When it comes to the National Assembly, for the first time, ministers do not even participate, but those who replace the Minister, by office or by authority, do not speak. If the fight against corruption is as important a matter as Mrs Kociper used to say, then the government would probably be able to say it on its own if it was as good. How intense this fight against corruption will be, you will have the opportunity to prove at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly, when we have two interpretations on the agenda with severe allegations of violations, and already some interpretations in this mandate have been on a similar topic. I would like to remind you, Your Honor, of the Government's representatives and others that the fight against corruption not only means the adoption of a law, but mainly the conduct and work of those who implement it. In this area, there is a perfect discreet person between words and actions. I would like to ask the distinguished representative of the Government, obviously very capable of commenting on the issue of anti-corruption, to tell us about it, as well as how the Government views the destruction of archives in this part of the process when the selection commission decided to destroy the archive or magnetograms. This would be important because the Government has appointed its Secretary-General to this selection committee, and the conduct of the Secretary-General of the Government in this decision, whether it is one or the other, is very significant, and that is why the Government's position on such behaviour is also, because this destruction of archives, the concealment of archives, the escape from responsibility, is one of the fundamental characteristics of this government and this composition of this coalition. And I'd like to ask the Secretary of State for an explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko, for your procedural proposal. Let me say that, in the context of this point of the meeting of the National Assembly, the representative of the Government of Dr Gregor Virant, Minister of the Interior, and the Secretary of State is aware that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly can be consulted when assessing or deciding that an explanation should be given or given. I therefore reiterate that this option still applies under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The next one has the word, Mr Zvonko Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u122	Thank you very much. I don't know if there was a minister present at this point. I think that the Secretary of State was present, so, as I recall, the Secretary of State had an introductory explanation, so it would be good for him to be included in the debate. A few points were given, and it would be right to hear the government's opinion on what has been repeatedly exposed. Respected and respected, I have before me an index of perceptions of corruption or corruption, where the different countries of the world are marked by different colors. The darker color, more against the board or almost black, shows that the perception index is extremely high, and the brighter color shows that countries have no major problems with corruption and corruption. For the last 10 years – interesting or paradoxical, the Commission's action to prevent corruption – this color, the colour scheme, as far as our countries are concerned, is becoming ever darker. The corruption perception index in our country is increasing, which means that the situation in this area is deteriorating year after year. This is also one of the reasons why we in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, Mrs Maša Kociper, requested this extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. What you have to discuss will then be discussed outside the hall, not in this room. The topic is serious and should also be taken seriously by the Government, government representatives and, above all, government Members, given that these discussions were relatively few and that there were many cancellations from the debates. This means that in some ways the government Members and the Government agree that this index is growing for us. They clearly agree that Slovenia is an increasingly corrupt country, agreeing that this manure tissue is becoming increasingly entangled in the national body, that as a result of this pension they are increasingly threatened, that billions of euros are being paid to the bank tycoons who stole this money from Slovenian banks and kept their assets. Moreover, some have been helped to preserve what could be confiscated months ago, and they have not been seized. This relationship in today's session, and also in the sessions where we have discussed this problem and the ways in which measures, legislation and everything else should be based to eradicate and eliminate it or at least limit it, shows that this government and also Members of the ruling coalition have no real purpose to deal with these problems and to deal with this burden. Finally, in a symbolic way, this path is also illustrated by the latest actions or recent developments in connection with the appointment of the Commission's leadership to prevent corruption. It is likely that this procedure, at the most symbolic level, has exposed the situation in which Slovenia is today, and in the cruelest and most rural way has also told us that this government has no purpose, no will, no ambition to deal with these problems, not especially because individual members in this government might have done something but others are not. We have witnesses to some internal struggles and some internal struggles that appear to be winning bad guys, I'm sorry. It can be no different, for the power acquired in the way it was after 7 January 2013 cannot act any differently than it does today because it itself is built into this corrupt substance of creation. As a result, it is not possible to deal successfully with the problems that are to be borne and burdened by the next few generations because we do not face them in the way that other countries have taken a series of measures to reinforce the persecution of this worst corruption crime on the one hand and, on the other hand, prevention, with appropriate legislative material, have made it possible to avoid these distortions and to avoid these phenomena. The purpose of today's meeting, which we have expected as candidates, would certainly be to answer the question of what this government will do in concrete terms and when to make the prosecution of the worst corruption crime more effective. What will the justice minister of this country do to ensure that the judicial institutions deal with the persecution of the real one, not with the prosecution of deliberate crime and political opponents? What will those who are most responsible for the prosecutions and the courts who are responsible for the transfer of billions of euros of our common money to such and other oasis make it possible for these millions to come back, not to deal with the ignorantness of the 161st proceedings against the leader of the largest opposition party? What are they going to do, specifically and when, for at least one of the bank-corruption tycoons to be sitting behind bars? What will they do to ensure that the largest construction baron will finally begin serving his sentence? What will they do to make us not only hear that the biggest problem in this country is corruption in health, but that those who are involved in this corruption will also be responsible for ensuring that the prices of medicines and services in health care are valued and that people in the normal timeframes come to services rather than wait on the emergency rooms for as long as some do not breathe out? What will this government do to take seriously the persecution of corruption that is a problem in this country, not because the opposition is saying it, but because they are telling us about the colour schemes of the corruption perception index over the past 10 years, which are getting darker and darker? In doing so, I'm sorry, it's not like a different anti-corruption commission to us, but it's not in any way called what it was last, it can't help us in any way. Unfortunately, neither the ruling Members nor this government is aware of this problem, nor would they have listened to Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek when she spoke of the need for President Boris Stefanec to be given an opportunity to prove himself. We have listened to rhetoric in recent years about the need to give people another chance when they were lying, and that they should be given the opportunity to prove themselves when they were caught in such or other ways, and we see where this has led us. The second point we wanted to talk about in this meeting is why the Commission has been a political tool since the establishment of corruption, rather than helping to eradicate corruption in this country. Why did this happen all the time? That's not the case for this appointment right now. We know how things have been going in the past, we know how he was named by 31 March still President, Mr Klemenčič, Praprotnik and so on. A similar commission as now – Melita Župevc, at the time was Mr Dusan Kumer, Member of the Social Democrats, President of the Parliament's Mandate- volitional Commission, former Secretary of the Social Democrats. He was the chairman of this commission, he proposed to appoint this commission, a political body in a political way. Ms Melita Župevc, Mrs Tanja Sharabon, Secretary-General of the Government, was on this committee, where Mr Dusan Kumer is now sitting as Secretary of State in the cabinet of Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek. Now, after receiving a few ten candidates, this commission has repeated the call that none of them were suitable for the president, and among the more than ten applicants, the only one has been proposed as suitable for appointment, not all of whom have had appropriate professional qualifications. I firmly believe that if this candidate did not have the PS criterion, he would not be proposed for appointment. Why did the invitation to tender have to be repeated? In the meantime, there were also registered candidates who met the professional references so that they could be appointed. No one has explained this until today. In doing so, I am not questioning Mr Stefanec's political affiliation. But the client protected him and covered him, and this has to be admitted. The positive Slovenia, the prime minister herself, has given him support with the words that it is right to let him prove himself. So the largest ruling party in this appointment has completely covered it and is behind it, which is beautiful. However, the bone must be stuck in someone’s throat, for not long ago the same Prime Minister of the Government said that those who have a client card – in that case a good year ago it was for SDS members – had nothing to look for in government services and would, simply put, be in a short time if they did not resign themselves after she was appointed prime minister, politically chandelier. And they were, for example, those who had not already resigned, like the then newly appointed director of Gursa. We do not have problems with the political affiliation of individual capable personnel, but the problem in this case is the Commission, which is the appointment of the task, the method of appointment and the lack of transparency of this procedure. We do not know anything about this procedure, except the names of the applicants and of those who were finally proposed, because all the documentation on the selection procedure was destroyed in contravention of the law. In the case of an authority where transparency is supposed to be the highest, as this is a condition for ensuring some credibility and credibility, all documentation was destroyed overnight in these procedures. And why this was done, except by protecting the personal integrity of those who applied, no one has explained or said to this day. Of these three appointed, two have already resigned, and Mr Boris Štefanec has made a public statement that the order of the President of the country will be fully implemented. Mr Štefanec will comply fully with the President's order. This gives some additional weight or additional negative connotation to this choice, which suggests that the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption has fully exposed itself to this process. It is finally understood that this was and will remain exclusively a political tool to deal with political opponents, no less and no more. If we look at the procedures that have taken place over the past years and look at the actors in these procedures, we can prove this and find out. There is no problem in the case of airline tickets, there is no corruption. In the case of assets where the property is measured according to Gurs' records, but not at market values, and on this basis it is found that someone has unjustifiably received some sum of money, and each day we can monitor what these records are – Buzekian is worth just over 30 000 euros, that is the farm over Isolo, where the mortgage is entered for more than 5 million euros and after Gurs is worth 30,000 euros – we can rightly ask ourselves how they have not already come here to identify the origins of the assets in a negative direction. There is no Commission to prevent corruption in the past, and in the future it will serve nothing but political accounting if it remains the way it is. And Slovenia's colour on the map of corruption and corruption will be darker from day to day, and people's standards will continue to deteriorate and this country's indebtedness will increase. The purpose of the candidates was to discuss at this meeting what the government of Alenka Bratušek would do to prevent this from happening. The first step that should be taken is to establish an effective system of prosecution, detection and then the processing of the most serious crimes and to follow a proper set of measures to act and act at the preventive level concerning corruption. None of this has been heard, but we have heard a great deal of talk from the coalition about the purpose of this meeting anyway, because we will not finally take any conclusions. Of course, we will not, because you have voted them out or destroyed them, and you have shown that it is not your intention to do anything in this area, but to do nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. Blackach. Let me just explain that the Government's opening arguments were not given by Dr. Virant, but by the Secretary of State. We continue the debate. Next up is Mrs. Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u124	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, everybody! Persecuting corruption through the anti-corruption commission has had a beard for a long time, and we have it so far that we can determine whether it is effective or not or whether we need it or not, what you keep telling us. In the SDS, we believe that those bodies that are professionally and professionally established in this country to prosecute corruption should do so more effectively and then such commissions would not really need to do so because they have proven themselves to be anything other than a anti-corruption fighter in recent years. He's doing media lynches and so on. We may have slightly forgotten the story of President Drag Kos's time, but even then we had a lot of affairs and stories without evidence. However, the appointment in 2010 is fresher when the Commission has been appointed, which has now resigned – Mr Klemenčič, Mr Praprotnik and first Mr Končan, who has resigned and then Mrs Selinšek. Even then, there have been some ladies on the committee, who have also been on the board this time, and if I have been reading the minutes since then, I can see that they have done a lot of trying and trying to justify some things. You know that there was a dilemma as to whether one of the candidates, Mr Rok Praprotnik, met the conditions of ten years of working experience, and how they called on him and supplemented the records and reports that the case somehow came out, although many still think that he did not fulfil the conditions at the time and that he should not have been appointed to this place. Everything about that appointment also says that Mr Končan stepped down from the National Assembly immediately because he estimated that the Commission would act too politically to be biased, and therefore he did not want to participate in such a committee. At the same time, we also noted what kind of specialist for corruption Mr Praprotnik, a journalist – that is why we had again journalists in the new call, and probably more if the matter were slightly different – because in his articles we did not meet any research story where we would have published a corruption story, but we met many different stories, so that we could say that Mr Praprotnik was a specialist primarily for Janez Janša, but not for the detection of corruption cases. It was similar with Mr Klemenčič. In the SDS, we also pointed out that the Secretary of State was with the President of the LDS, then Minister of the Interior, Mrs Katarina Kresal. We knew that it was important to be involved in the process of renting the premises of the NPU. Otherwise, he fled to the KPK in time, but he also had to admit there that it was corruption in this case and give a negative opinion, which is why Mrs Kresal also resigned. However, it is very important that Mr Klemenčič supervised this project while he was still Secretary of State. It is said that at least as much as the minister for this stunt was responsible for him. In addition to Mr Klemenčič's work, we were able to monitor his wrongdoing or his bad work, not to say several times that he was breaking the law. Mr Klemenčič, through his team, interpreted the law in his own way, which stipulated that he should report annually to the National Assembly, and took as much as possible a period of time as he himself had estimated, until October of the following year and practically for a year and a half, although this is not in accordance with the law which explicitly speaks of the need to report annually. Not to mention that he has seriously missed the hands he has and is also subject to the law. If we miss Members of Parliament, we are at least criminals and are written on its home page of the website, on the first page of the website. Mr Klemenčič apologizes to us that he is a little late and that we Members will already understand this. He breaks a law that determines how he has to work, while he himself is very unappreciative of all the others he controls. Not to talk about a very selective choice, what and how it will review. Colleagues have already mentioned the employment of Mr Tank's son, the daughter of Mr Janša. Here, Mr Klemenčič is very much involved in the matter, unlike Mr Masleš's son and someone else. He didn't even know if it was any corruption or not. Allow yourself to write that someone has acquired an unlawful asset, as it were said, selectively, only for those who fit him. That is why we believe that this body acted politically, and that is why we have opposed it — whether it is being reviewed or not. In addition, when Mr Klemenčič examined or exercised control of political party champions with his team – by the way, the presidents of parliamentary parties are not obliged to report on the property situation. Indeed, most of them were officials at the time, but not all of them, so it is also quite strange here that Mr Klemenčič decided to examine someone who is not a debtor in this way. But he's doing the selection again, just like he's doing. In his control, he took a very thorough look at some of the airline tickets of one of the presidents of the political parties, while in the case of the other president of the political party, he missed the most controversial party and did not even touch them in the report. If not for a whole series of media articles and so on, I probably wouldn't even be able to do that. Then he had to go through a few thousand cards, but again he missed Virant's most controversial. He didn't notice a few thousand of them. This speaks again of how he works selectively and also how inaccurately, if he has not noticed some things. Now the hot skeleton has pushed the new anti-corruption commission to open the case and reexamine it. Hello?Oh, my God! Let him do his job as he should, or let's not do these things at all if he's not capable of it. Since we have the Commission to prevent corruption, as I said, which has carried out media lynches and everything – colleague Kociper said that this is very good, that the anti-corruption commission can convene press conferences and explain there. Thank God that judges cannot do this before they know something, and it is very bad that Mr Klemenčič or the anti-corruption commission can do so without evidence, because all we can read is a risk of corruption. You're on the website and you're the most corrupt in this country, but there's only a risk of corruption without any evidence. Earlier, I forgot to say that Mr Virant even had the opportunity to give his opinion on the report within 8 days, as is the case with the law, unlike some other political party presidents, whom Mr Klemenčič did not give them this opportunity. He again violated the law stipulating his work that the report must be transmitted before publication to those who were processed or obliged to identify the matter. Since we have had the anti-corruption commission, we have seen a lot of this, but only a little of the actual issues, actual complaints, actual activities, except for big populism and cheerleading. During this time, we have achieved a reverential first place in corruption. This is once again a sign that we do not need an anti-corruption commission, but we need an effective judiciary, the police and the prosecution. As I have already said on the committee, I estimate that there has been a lot of change with the National Investigation Office, that special investigation groups are being set up and that things are working, that the authorities are cooperating with each other – the Tax Administration, the Anti-Money Laundering Office and so on. The narrow throat appears mainly in the prosecution and in the court. The police, for example, have made several proposals to prohibit the possession of property where they estimate that the property was obtained in an unfair manner. When the D.A. suggests it, the D.A. has submitted several more than 10 motions to the court and the court has approved two or three. What's the problem? Last time we read the poll, our judges are getting a lot of education. They're in second place in Europe. We also have the highest number of judges, and at the same time, most of the delays. What's not working? Something obviously doesn't work, and it doesn't help to sign Mr Maslesha's statements with the President of the Government, how they're going to work quickly now and there are no effects. It's just one pierre to make a story there for three days, then write the media, how great this government is, to fight corruption, and that the judiciary will henceforth work completely differently. A bad year after that, things are the way they were, if not even worse. What needs to be done is to strengthen these organs, to replace people who are where they are and who are not capable. Because someone has a significantly higher salary because he's the boss because he has to split the job and because he has to sanction those who don't do well and reward those who do good. If he can't do that, let him do something else. I regret that we have not been able to reach any conclusions by the plenary session. The coalition, which likes to reject opposition decisions, has not proposed anything on its own because it never proposes anything because it does not want to commit itself to anything, because if there is no commitment, nothing has to be done. Rather, it rejects all our proposals for conclusions that are never so appropriate that the coalition can support them. That's why it's about fighting corruption and wanting the rule of law, just one pierre and just talking, because when we get to concrete action, no one's there anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. But Minister Gregor's nothing. Minister Gregor's delegate is nothing. That's too bad. With regard to the fight against corruption, it should be noted in the opening that the transitional left has taken over it. Those who are in the process of reshaping businesses, those who have gained the most in this work in an inappropriate way, have usurped the fight against corruption. Let me remind you: for the first time, the anti-corruption commission appeared after an affair broke out with the sale of Systemic Technology and the signing of a letter of intent for eight-wheelers. At that time, the government of Rop in response to this media attack set up a Commission to prevent corruption, and it led to Mr Drag Kos, who had already participated in some of the stories that had been heard publicly. The Borut Pahor's government has decided that this fight, the apparent fight against corruption, will upgrade, prepare a new law on integrity, somehow extend the Senate, the individual function of the Senate, foresee some selection process, and also in this selection process, or in this selection committee that conducted these procedures, it has taken all over. In these selection commissions, however, twice or three times this selection commission was appointed by 5 people, it was not by the part called politics, but it is called the Official Council, and it is appointed by the Government of its representative and also by the National Assembly, or by no one who had at least 3% of the genes other than the Transition Left. Not on the first selection committee, not on the second selection committee, not on the third. We will now see what will happen in this process when the new selection commission for the appointment of deputies is appointed. This is all going on in some contractually customeristic way. The issue is now even more problematic because, on behalf of the National Assembly, the President of the Electoral Commission, Mrs Melita Župevc, who has adopted the law on integrity, is taking part in this election committee. If you look at the magnetograms, that's when she said it was the best marriage. When it is necessary to exercise control over the assets of the anti-corruption commission’s Senate, it cannot carry them out! The case has been pending since last January, I think, January 26th. The procedure is not closed against the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, but against the other two members it has not yet begun. To know who is involved in these commissions and who is the one who is watching over the selection of people who will fight corruption. This has to be said because obviously, it's all about the imaginary battle and there's no real thing. The second thing to say is that the Senate of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, the current Chamber of Klemenčič, has not been able to report in accordance with its home law on integrity. Even the annual report could not be prepared in accordance with this law. Someone who is unable to perform his duties and report to the National Labour Council is the one who controls corruption in so-called difficult cases. With regard to working in these anti-corruption stories, it must also be said that the former Prime Minister, Mr Rop, has drafted the Anti-Corruption Act. His government has accepted him, and his current partner is recruiting him for this commission. It is also a matter of some family ties, historical ones, and it is obvious that some in this area have taken more than they should have. Whether it's an accident or another reason, I don't even know. With regard to the Commission's anti-corruption Senate, I must find that there are some things he did not wish to report to the National Assembly, even though this should – for example – be about the cooperation of their family members with businesses or with institutions owned by a majority of the state. Some others were examined much more because they were supervised in much detail, but they themselves did not want to report it to the National Assembly and to those who requested it. This approach was discussed by Mr Popovic, also publicly. How, then, can we take this fight against corruption seriously? On the one hand, it is family ties, on the other hand it is ignorance and not reporting, on the third hand it is a selective approach. Mr Virant spoke with the Commission to prevent corruption before the report was issued by some, and apparently denied them certain details, at least so it is now evident from the announcements made by the KPK. And now these people who had this grace to overlook them are the main fighters against corruption. How this fight against corruption will develop will be seen at this meeting of the National Assembly. Two interpretations have been put in, and in both suspicions of agreed transactions, we will see how the coalition will be realistically opposed to these perceptions, which are also documented, including part of the investigation cases. And how you will then act in voting on these matters — whether it will be just a verbal story again, as we have witnessed it today, or whether it will be a real matter. I would also like to know, Mr Secretary of State, what the Government will do in the event of the destruction of magnetograms and records. Will she sanction the Secretary-General of the Government who appointed her to this committee and who has participated in the decision to destroy these archives in one way or another, or will she not? There is also some experience in this government in the area of the destruction of archives. Not only in this case, even in the historical, previous period. I think we should have decided here a long time ago within the Government – whether to bless the actions of the Secretary-General of the Government and give her full support in participating in or replacing it. In this case, there is no transparency at all, which is crucial in the fight against corruption. Those who appointed the Senate of this Commission acted intransparency – they hide the data, hide the details, reveal nothing, destroy or burn what should be a document and presented to the public, because for the KPK, the key criteria on the basis of which someone is suitable and others are not. We asked what are the criteria for someone to be suitable under the same conditions for a Vice-Commission to prevent corruption, but not for a president, meeting all the conditions. Why were some who fulfilled all the conditions rejected? Mrs Župevc did not report on this National Assembly. It did not convene a mandate-holder commission, and I would say: on this basis, I voted and proposed this person to the Commission to prevent corruption. I think this should be done in these matters. One more thing. When you talk about political parties and membership in political parties, it is not clear why it was so important that Mr Štefanec, who was elected to this function, stepped down the day before or on the date of appointment. If membership in political parties is so insignificant and it is not selective criteria, why did this happen after the hint that it has the opportunity to be selected? So it was a political trade. These functions may only be referred to as persons who are boundlessly committed to what the transition left of them requires. No one else can be appointed to such functions. We had the case of the State Audit Commission when one of the candidates applied three times. He was the only candidate I think twice, and he fell until the real person from the Positive Slovenia Group came and was given a mandate to serve in the State Audit Commission. That's how it goes. Let's stop blinding ourselves that this is about fighting corruption. It is simply a matter of procedures to destroy political opponents, not to suppress corruption. That's all this is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u127	Thank you very much. First, she wanted a replica of Mrs Župevc, and then the Secretary of State asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u128	Thank you very much. I have rightly found in my speech today that the SDS will never fail and that I will have to address Mr Stefanec for the third time. It is difficult for me to answer Mr Tank because this level is not the level of some normal Parliamentarianism, but much lower than that. I will only answer with the facts. The law on integrity and the prevention of corruption was adopted in the National Assembly 4. 6. 2010 On the basis of this law, Mr Štefanec has now been proposed as President of the Commission. It has been published in the Official Journal 4. 6. and adopted in the National Assembly 26. 5. 2010 As for this statement by Mr Tank that the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, I wrote, "he cannot exercise control over the assets of the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption" – no, the President does not want to exercise illegal control over the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. This may be done by someone else – to obtain documents without decisions taken in the National Assembly or at a meeting of the Commission of Mandate, i.e. past the conclusions, past the proceedings. That's what other people do. I'm not doing it, and I'm not doing it, even if the SDS is going to criticize me at every session of the National Assembly. Not that I don't know, but I don't want to do illegal procedures. You can do this. I won't do this until I'm president of the P.O.C. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u130	Thank you very much. With regard to the implementation of the law or the enforcement of control procedures, it would be very good if, after one year, Mrs Župevc proposed at least a proposal for a decision to do so legally. No decision was proposed within a year to legally implement this procedure. And when we propose, we ask when it will be, he says: we will proceed with procedures when the time is right in the National Assembly. But there's been no time for this procedure for months, and that's the problem. Thank you very much. I suggest that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u131	Thank you very much. This was not a procedural proposal. In the same way, Mrs Župevc exceeded the replica by answering the questions, but not by explaining where it was misunderstood. So it's right to end this argument. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The government has responded very extensively to today’s topic or to what we are discussing today in the introduction itself, and we have also explained at Friday’s meeting the Government’s position on all these issues, as we are talking about today. Still, there may be another point. I think that today's debate has shown that we are alone in something – that this law, which is currently in force, probably needs a certain upgrade, complementing that practice has shown this. Here you have been all parliamentary groups, all Members and Members of the so-called unified opinion, and that is why the Government has also committed itself to some of the starting points prepared by the current Commission, which have been prepared by experts employed by the President of the Republic – certain opinions, starting points – and also within the Government. That is why I agree with you and also with the suggestion made by the representative of the Slovenian People's Party to complete this law. Of course, it is necessary to take responsibility, seriously, and to examine all these annexes, i.e. the problems that have arisen on the one hand, the proposals that have emerged in the current debates on the other, and also to review certain specific data. Although some of these have been mentioned today, I think there will be some more analysis to be done so that we can actually upgrade what is necessary qualitatively. Good preparation of such a law is crucial. My personal conviction is that we are all over-complementing and changing laws too quickly, too recklessly, and that in some ways we are also causing relative legal instability. By the fact that the government hasn't done anything this year, I can't agree. I think such a finding is incorrect, incorrect. As far as this is concerned, and you have mentioned some Members and Members – if we just look at the police, not only the National Investigation Office, but also the Department of Criminal Justice, the criminalist unit of individual police administrations, is extremely successful – the number of complaints, the procedures are increasing and these allegations are fully accepted by prosecutors. It's not about rejected cases. This means that work is quality, that it is results. The results are also on the prosecution's side. We need to stress that. The joint investigation teams have also produced very good results. This form of cooperation and joint work and the fight against corruption are being upgraded all the time, and we will continue to do so in the future. I also said on the committee that in some way I would like to thank you for your positive assessment of the law enforcement authorities and that I assure you that we will continue to do so and that we will justify your trust. Within this, the KPC has its role, and that is why we must place the Commission in such a way that it can deliver even more, better or even more effects and that these synergies will ultimately be less corruption in Slovenia and that this fight against corruption will be even better than it is at this point. However, the results are not visible in a few months, but they are a systematic, organised, painstaking work that gives good results for a longer period. The government has also given very concrete support to these activities. I do not think that we should neglect the funds that are intended for further employment within the NPU and also within other units of the criminal police, specifically for economic crime. It's not the only thing. It is also necessary to strengthen the work of the police in other areas and to ensure adequate conditions for work, technical materials, training. But these measures will certainly have direct effects on the results of the work. The measures mentioned today, which have also been published and adopted by the Government, will have an appropriate impact over the next period. Part of this programme is already being implemented, it is part of the realization, and I am sure that we will be all those deadlines set there – ambitious and impossible to achieve, but I am confident that we will execute them in agreed frameworks precisely because it is the determination that corruption is dealt with by this government as a key priority, which is, last but not least, written in the coalition contract and also in our concrete annual work programmes. Therefore, once again, I cannot agree with the fact that the Government is indifferent, that it does not give due importance, attention and so on. The fact that an upgrade to this existing law is necessary also indicates what Mr Tanko has mentioned. The supervision of KPK members' assets is also likely to need to be regulated in this law. That's one way to go, too. The government has very clearly defined itself until the procedure itself. The current regime allows for the normal, transparent appointment of members of the Commission. Of course, these complications, and these controversy and debates that we have today in the National Assembly and in other bodies, indicate that it may be useful to further define or agree on specific details, just so that we do not have the situation that we are in today. In this way, the commission comes to the fore, into unconstructive controversy, and thus falls to its reputation and authority. I think it is also crucial that what we are talking about here is then we are also trying to achieve effectively. I think we will do nothing to improve the situation in the fight against corruption with big words, but only with very, very much, as I have already mentioned, a hard, planned, organised work. That is why I am not in the mood for much debate. On the other hand, as in the case of extremism, when we discussed here, we have practically taken some recommendations from the National Assembly following an interim report from the Commission of Inquiry, launched activities and taken some measures to follow the National Assembly in implementing recommendations and guidelines. As far as the process is concerned, I think there's been a lot of talk today. Mrs Župevc also explained how things were going. I think it's very accurate, very good. As far as the destruction of the documents is concerned, the selection commission that ran the procedure also laid down the rules of the game. The President of the First Commission also explained why this had then been destroyed. I think we must accept this explanation, but I agree with Mr Tank that it is worth considering and that this process is also to be finalized in this direction. So much for now, and I'll call back later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. Chief. Mr Möderndorfer is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Today we are witnessing what Mr. Cernač said nicely – that they wanted to discuss and propose certain changes with this bill, this is the integrity law, which also speaks of the KPK. In my debate today, I will not try too hard to explain to the applicants, nor will I argue with you. No matter what you do later — since I will tell you in advance that I will say a few things — I will say, I will no longer answer you because I will no longer try. In this House, I no longer intend to try and respond to your responses, especially because I continue to see how they are not even true, let alone true. What is important to me is that, thank God, there is an archive in the National Assembly and that we can look back on how this law on integrity, the progeny of the KPK and all those desires that have given a message, how and how you Members of the past, those who have been in Parliament for a long time, imagined and also had a vision and goals for this KP to do its job. It all started in 2004 with the creation of a law on the establishment of the KPK, and already in 2006 a group of Members, with the first-signed Jelinčič – there are quite a few interesting names in this package for those who participated, so I have often thought about the honesty of all these Members and Members and former, current ministers, officials and distinguished gentlemen. Mr. Lovro Šturm, Mr. Gregor Virant, Mr. Robert Marolt and Mr. Gorazd Perenič, the Secretary of State, where they wrote in their opinion, quoted me as saying that I would not speak nonsense or that someone would hold me as saying: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not oppose the bill... " – I am talking about this from the Victory of Jelinčič – "... because he thinks that the law is conceptually appropriate," but he talked about abolishing it. "In the event that the law is included in the further legislative procedure, the Government itself will complete and remedy these shortcomings by means of appropriate amendments." I don't blame the SDS for wanting to end this, because they're always fighting for it honestly, with the big heart, the way it's supposed to be, and they're not even hiding it. But I resent all the others who explain in a fat way how KPK is needed and so on, but in fact, if we look at the past, we see that all these great heroes have kept their figs in their pockets all the time. What happened next? Then, even the SD, together with the other Members, made a proposal – later Mr Šturm joined – to terminate this law because important information had taken place in the meantime. For those who follow these things, it is necessary to be very precise. In fact, this Constitutional Court passed the law by decision U-I-57/06 first held – you know this very well – and later in 2007, not only did it literally lynchate, but it ripped it apart in articles across a wide and cross-section. Later – that is why this correction was – in 2007, 2008 Virant again proposed abolition when he was Minister of Justice. Strange, isn't it? But today I am listening to what needs to be fixed and what needs to be done. Something doesn't work out if you understand what I'm saying. Of course, there was a minister in another government, not the current one. It bothers me so much, because in the end, I always wonder how much honesty is here. I must say that what Mr Chernač said and what the proposaler put for today's agenda – to be a little more precise, they wanted to have a debate on the law and propose the following conclusions. Mr Černač says: "We wanted to propose, improve," and so on. No, it's not! This is where you propose to end the KPK. And I'll read to you so there won't be any misunderstandings. This was one of your three proposals that was not adopted on the committee, and people don't know when they're listening. "The National Assembly proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to follow the following guidelines in establishing legal solutions in the area of anti-corruption." And you listed three. "All repressive tasks in the field of corruption crimes should be concentrated within the framework of detection and prosecution bodies [[in the case of the police and the prosecution]] "," which is also explained at the outset by the proponents and suggested how this should be resolved. So let's take one piece. Part two: "New legislation should transfer control of the assets of officials to the Court of Auditors," Part Two. He's getting out of KPK. And C: "Preventive corruption tasks should be carried out in a separate organisational unit, which will be an integral part of the internal or judicial ministry, and the definition of corruption as regulated in comparable countries of the European Union" – Part Three. So what's left of the KPK? Zero, nothing. So that's a termination. That is why such a proposal has not been adopted on the Committee, and this needs to be said out loud. We really cannot discuss such a proposal, but we can discuss what Mr Cernač said – how to improve, how to change and so on. But Mr Černač is known for his quick turn of speech, so today he has made a very quick statement, saying that when Alenka Bratušek appointed the President of the KPK, she simply covered him by saying that she supported him or used other words – that she did not see any problem if he did or should have the opportunity. Alenka Bratusek never said that, in this context, as you said, no. But it is true that on the first day the media gathered something else that was being corrected the next day, and you liked only the first part that the media reported on the previous day. In fact, she said: "I would probably unload the KPK with my resignation. On the other hand, I understand that, given that he has done nothing wrong, he insists on this place." In fact, all she said was that she understood him, why she insisted, because he hadn't done anything yet because nothing had ever happened. Of course, you've packed it in the context that suits you, but we're used to it. I didn't expect anything else. But it is right for history — you know, it is always true: what is said goes into oblivion, with the Slovenians within two years, and in fact you prefer what you like to discover in archives, but it has to be written down as a record, because it goes into history. That is why I must say that we have one serious problem that is called – this is what you all point out together. Yeah, it's true, there's too much corruption. But it is true that we have politicized the matter so much and brought it to the level that today, as some of you have already identified today, it is completely corrupt. Why? Because if you don't like any decision in any social sphere, it's corruption. And it's best to take it to this mill, because today it's become so modern and popular that everyone believes it. To put it another way: what was successful 10 years ago is resourceful today is corrupt, and vice versa. If you don't like the choice, if you don't like the decision, I'm sure there's something behind it and it stinks. I'm sure in some cases he can handle it. But who in this country will be the one to assess it? I agree that we have all the necessary authorities to prosecute crimes that can exercise this control. But I have a serious thought about who else can do this. Many times in the National Assembly, we have the most opportunity to talk about this, and we are constantly being summarized, and then every smallest suspicion and every word proposed by someone is already at issue, and because of the Member's already spoken, it can be very interesting. If not, at least the daily information program can be filled with a story. Today, at this point, quite a few claims were made that there was a lot of people flying around here with cameras, checking, and that 14 days our former colleague was harassed, and that was not the case with others. I have to say that I had to get out here — but I'm sorry that he's not here today because he was loud again — the case of Franz Pukšič and when someone followed him here. The former mayor and director of the municipal administration acted contrary to the law. I just wanted to tell you how destructive the media can really be. But the vats are different, so it's really time for certain things to change. I'll be very clear. As far as Mr Štefanec is concerned, the President of the State, the Republic of Slovenia, has everything in his hands. He signed the order and he is the only one who can cancel it, no one else — if we put anything on the legal order, of course. But we can go a long way and do such a show that we will eventually lead to absurdity and we will say that at the end of the day, the National Assembly has to fix something, which has been accomplished to the end, to the point that no one else has any confidence. Personally, I always wish that a number of people would take a matter more seriously and open up a question. I don't know why in the past KPK only needed a month or two, but for some it took a year or two. I never fully understood this relationship, but it's true, and I can honestly say that I don't know their work, their dynamics. I don't even know exactly how many employees there are, nor do I know how to deal with cases, nor do I know what kind of order it is — whether it comes or treats them the way anonyms do. I don't know anything. But I know something else – I must say that what we did about the KPK on the Mandate-Election Commission is personally beneath me. It is beneath my honor for one simple reason – because things were done that were illegal, and I am waiting for the day when the records of these committees can finally be opened to see what was really done and what was not done. Therefore, I must say that at some point in time when this happened, I was able to exclude myself from this commission, which examined the members of the KPK or we only came to the President, and we can't get to the deputies at all, because if you heard how this hearing was going on, I would never participate again or not, at least not in this way. So I find it extremely irresponsible that even now in this place individuals are saying things that they have no proof of, but just like a pamphlet they are proposing. For example, Mr Tanko today in his debate, which is supposed to lead to an improvement of our legislation in the area of the PKK, says a sentence which is frightening. I'm sorry, Comrade Tanko, but I never make a concerted cliential deal with you when I'm talking about what we're going to decide in the National Assembly. However, Parliament or democracy and the rules of procedure, as it is, have been in practice for years to come, and you yourself have managed it several times when you were in a position of power within the coalition and when you were also in the position where you are today – in the opposition. Is this contractually clientalist if Members talk to each other and agree on how they will adopt certain decisions? I don't think so, but the suspicion and doubt that you're putting into such a way of expressing it, and then it's very big, and it falls into the entire National Assembly, and it's going to stick to you when you're in the coalition, so I think it's unfair and unfair to use such expressions. "He can't do anything," I don't know, Mr Tanko, from what's going on in the National Assembly today, you always like just what you're proposing. In the end, there's a formula you always end up with. I must say that in the end I am always unhappy and sad that I have to waste my time in discussions where there is no epilogue at the end. But you are always repeating yourself as the proponents: today we have a meeting, today we have a proposal, tomorrow a new one will come and we will set up a bunch of new extraordinary meetings just to discuss it. You speak the same way about interpretations, and you speak the same way about all other proposals. Save some energy for the time when we'll talk about material things. Today we have neither the law nor the matter before us. We are talking in general about the KPK, corruption, what's right, what's wrong, what's wrong, and you bring in a general debate and people, random and planned, end up not understanding what we're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. Möderndorfer. First the replica, Mr. Chernač, then on behalf of the proposaler, Dr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u136	It is no wonder that Slovenia is sinking – more and more corruption, more and more young people without work, more and more debt, more crime – if the leader of the largest coalition party instead of the problems of this country and seeking solutions deals with the coalition partner Virant and his duality, which they discuss at coalition meetings rather than burdening the entire Slovenian public for a time, but with what the opposition says. But in his confusion, he doesn't even say what's at stake. That the Prime Minister has supported Mr Štefanec in one way or another, it is clear and you yourself have stressed, only in other words. You realize that the Commission's problem to prevent corruption is what we are talking about and that if there is no change, Slovenia will not begin to fall from this ever-increasing scale of corruption, even you recognise. But it is up to you to understand that now that you have also won this summit, even the Anti-Corruption Commission, that is, when Positive Slovenia has its own man at the top of this institution, you will not let that go. This is clearly clear to us and the public. The result will be that this color will become ever darker as far as corruption in this country is concerned.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Even Mr. Tanko has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u138	Thank you very much. With regard to the archives of the Commission, a request was made for the opening of these archives with regard to the supervision of Mr Klemenčič's assets. We've been denied. Then we turned to the information officer, and the President of the MVK agreed to open up the archives in part, not the part that relates to the actual hearing or discussion of the property situation. The fact that the president can't do it or won't do it, she actually said it in her own replica. We are in a state when the ruling coalition or the largest party of the coalition systematically obstructs control of the property situation of the KPK Senate — systematic, planned. Mr Möderndorfer also said that. The fact that things run clientalistly shows the procedures in the National Assembly. I mentioned the State Audit Commission. One of the candidates signed up three times. He was the only candidate twice, and he wasn't elected. Only in the attempt when a member of Positive Slovenia, an expert member of the parliamentary group, was the procedure completed – favourable for a member of Positive Slovenia. Even in the event of the appointment of the KPK Senate, the same thing happened. In the first set, no one met the conditions, despite the fact that ten met all the criteria that had been applied, and only when someone made a statement with the Party booklet Positive Slovenia could he be appointed chairman of the Senate of the Anti-Corruption Commission. I said earlier that the transition left has inherited key institutions in this country, and this is how it is done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Dr. Gorenak on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u140	Thank you very much. I volunteered to get my word as soon as possible because, Mr Möderndorfer, you remind me of a sower who throws lies and nebulosis out of a basket – that's what you might call it. Let's do it in order. Today – technology allows me – you have been wasting your crap at a press conference where you talked about how there can be no referendum and elections together and so on. You've given our client insight into the past, the archives and so on. Who did this? Who wanted to have a referendum, and why did this happen? Because you closed the archives. If we hadn't done this, that question wouldn't have come to the fore. So you can spend all your expenses and all your other things on yourself. You put on a tweet somewhere in the hallway called a fat lie. You said that on the Committee on Culture - I will move immediately to the content of this work - all Members voted in favour. It's a good thing we have a magnetogram somewhere. The opposition to that law did not support it. So you've been lying again. Let's move on. The following lie you have just said in the middle of saying that Mr Pahor can undo it. Let the law take a look! Mr. Stefanec cannot be resolved. His function will be terminated if he is legally convicted of a crime, otherwise you can't solve it. Of course, you will either try to get rid of it or you will try not to play any ugly games again by changing the law and saying that it is a new name for leadership, as your colleague Kociper has already announced, publicly on TV. The end of 2006 – I agree, Mr Virant was there, but it was not an end as such. It was a transformation, in my memory. In particular, it was a transfer of assets to the Court of Auditors. Yes, you're right – proposed Dr. Virant. But obviously this is evidence at the same time, you know, of what you've been asking yourself – that you don't know why one thing lasts a year, one two years, one month and so on, and one time there's a criminal charge, one time there's a report, whatever. You don't know that. I can explain that to you. First, look, not only at Klemenčič, but also at those who were previously accounted for by those who were placed there. When they see their debts to those, they decide — once every two years, once every six months, once every one month, and so on. Of course, you will be the Commission's creditor for the prevention of corruption after the new you too, so they will take a closer look at the debts they have for you to take any action. See, that's the problem. So you'll know. As far as this material is concerned, there's one more thing. The paper makes it very clear that we want the Commission's work to prevent corruption to be regulated in a European comparable way. Dr. Jelusic examined it, at least that research and so on, and you can't do it. Look what it's like in Europe, and you'll see what it's like in Europe. This means that the anti-corruption commissions, which are not at all available except in the Balkans and Latvia, do not have the same powers as ours. And we said - what? Yes, for the first time, let control of the assets of the officials go to the Court of Auditors. Secondly, we have said that corruption within the meaning of criminal offences and its prevention should be dealt with by the police, the prosecution and the judiciary, because that is also the case there, and the anti-corruption commission can, in such or otherwise, deal with prevention. It could be internal, it could be at the Justice Ministry, and in the opening presentation, I said that, as far as I'm concerned, they would not object to the existence of a preventive service. Not the way we have things arranged now. I'm opposed to you wasting your lies around like that. I can't help it if you're talking nonsense. It's a matter of your perception. I don't have any influence on that, but a little bit would suggest thinking about what you're saying and how you're saying when you're putting some things in the context that you're putting them in. Let me further touch on some of the debates that I have not reacted to, and this would be necessary. I don't know who has already spoken, I think Mrs Kociper, about how judges can be members of political parties and so on. Yeah, look, we have a confused situation. Judges and prosecutors are members of political parties. What customers we know anyway. That doesn't even matter because we can't check. But they're easy. That cop who's got 50 euros worth of lime leaves can't be in the constitution. That's confusion. He can't be a soldier either, because he's lying there in a ditch and training himself. They can't be, but the judges are easy. You see, this is nonsense, and I agree with what Mrs. Kociper said. I also agree with what she said about people learning from the media. Of course they do from the media – some do, but some do not. For example, the Patricia case was published by the Youth. It was probably a patriotic and heroic act. But when the evening came to the scene of another house investigation, they threw a pirate on the road at the police, as far as I know, a pianist who was suspected of saying it. These are different vats and different criteria. This is also true – this is also what Mrs Kociper spoke about, and this is particularly what the expert opinion of the three lawyers who have studied the work of the Commission to prevent corruption is about. It's about not being authorized by the police. Of course they don't, but we've been recruiting ex-cops and criminals in there. There's another friend, a wife, a colleague of police officers, criminals, and then there's what? A commission, more or less composed of police officers who are used to using police powers. And that's not right. The fact is, it's not right. To conclude again. The Lady of DeSUS once again spoke about how the work of the KPK is the basis for the work of criminals. That's not true! The KPK product is the same for the police as nothing or the ordinary report of a criminal offence by any citizen. And there's nothing KPK prepares for the police. I'll call back later, because I can see that they're still very interesting interlocutors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Möderndorfer, you can also have a replica if you want, because it wasn't a replica. Procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u142	Unlike the others, I stick to the word. I'm not going to replicate it because I already said it, but I have a procedural proposal for you, Chairman. To what Gorenak has enjoyed, we call hate speech, but his perception does not seem to comprehend it. And I ask you to act as President, because we will not come too far in this way. I didn't hurt anyone here. I told you the facts. However, the facts need to be answered, but in this way we will go to this stage, who understands anything – no offense, Mr Gorenak, it is primitiveism of all forms. I hope you're aware of that.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u143	Dr. Gorenak on behalf of the proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u144	Thank you very much. I repeat: I have not offended anyone. That you lied twice this morning is a verifiable fact and not a hate speech. Lies can be checked. Is that right? You'll have to agree, and I didn't insult you. But if I do, I'll always be able to apologize. I'm not doing this for the first time. I didn't insult you this time. I told the truth, that's how you lied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Jursha, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Vice President. It will not be easy and easy to discuss, because I have the feeling that gentlemen will be counting both on the left and on the right side of each other about all these debates that have been going on so far. Very briefly, in a few issues, I will try to say what I think about this subject, about this issue that we are dealing with today. It's really my fault when I listen from different mouths: archives. Then I am very concerned that we are evaluating – here I will specifically say, Comrade Tanko – the specific appointment of Mr Kocovana to the State Audit Commission. Did you not forget here that it was in the first round that members of your parliamentary group did not support Mr Kocován as a member of the State Audit Commission? So we should also ask ourselves here whether the data is accurate or not. But it doesn't bother me that much. We should discuss more about the topic that brings something to this country in this situation as we are. Today we're talking, it's true, about corruption. It is crucial not only in Slovenia but also in other countries of the European Union. But today we have given our souls seven hours to talk across the board about how the President of the State did not appoint a President and two Vice-Presidents of the Commission to prevent corruption. In my opinion, this situation should be resolved by the President of the State. We do see, however, that there is no leverage in fact to resolve the appointed President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. Speaking of corruption, it is very interesting that we usually agree that this corruption has taken place in all times of social life in Slovenia. We probably agree with this too, although it is not quite often that this corruption in Slovenia is as old as the old Slovenian state. I think that the most corruption was when we owned the property we had in Slovenia. When the property was owned, it was my opinion that corruption was the most. Those who did not fill their pockets at the time did so even in later times. But we are no longer united when we talk about certain other things related to corruption. Who should be the responsible authority in the country to investigate this? Some object exactly to the fact that the Commission to prevent corruption would be the one to investigate corruption. Those authorities which have this task under the law below must, in any event, investigate corruption. And here we're probably at the same wavelength. The problem is only the commission, and this problem does not exist from this mandate, but goes further back. The next thing I would like to mention is how we appointed representatives to the selection committee. I remember this meeting of the Mandate-Volution Commission. There were two candidates. On the one hand was Mrs Župevc, on the other hand was Mr Tanko. And you know, in the final stage it probably wasn't good that we named Mrs Župevc, but nothing would have been better, but forgive me, Comrade Tanka, if we had appointed Mr Tank to this committee. They both have some omens. Now I wonder who in this House could be appointed to this committee to elect a president and a vice-president. And I have come to some knowledge of my own that it would be most appropriate to appoint one of the Members of the Nationality. But you know what they'd say? I'd say, yes, one pulls more to the right, the other pulls more to the left. And we wouldn't have come to some clever conclusion again. The next thing I had been brought up was that there might be suitable unrelated Members. Yeah, hell, then they'd say: because they were in these colors, in those colors and in the following colors, and they were somehow excluded from these environments. And it wouldn't be good again. There's something we really need to write down. If we want this corruption to be revealed and eliminated, we should be united and draw the most important decision in this area. The Anti-Corruption Commission is very influential. In any case, we also saw this during last year’s period when they published some results, even though we did not all agree. But it was stressed, and gentlemen had to take on some of the consonants. And they did, and today it's just like it is. We need to work intensively in this area, and we should get a new commission with such or different presidents as soon as possible. However, it would be most desirable for the president and vice-presidents not to wear an omen on the left or a right-wing political option.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. Jursha. It's mag. Majda Potrat, then Branko Grims, Jerko Čehovin, Government and proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. First of all, under point 1 – why did I object to the proposed decision which, according to the Legislative and Legal Service, should be a recommendation? The 9 pages of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service state the substantive reasons why the proposed proposal for a decision could not be supported. The amendments tabled at the meeting of the Committee did not address any substantive concerns of the Legislative and Legal Service and could therefore not be supported. Secondly, the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption — its official consolidated text was published on 5 July 2011 and entered into force on the day following that — brings together the three legal texts, namely the basic law on integrity and the prevention of corruption of 2010 and the two novelties of 2011. It is said that the only text that the President of the State may have reacted to on a proposal from the Electoral Commission is this text, which in Article 9 speaks of the appointment of the Commission, in paragraph 6: "The President of the Republic from among the candidates forwarded to him by the Electoral Commission shall appoint the President of the Commission and the Vice-President of the Commission within 30 days of the receipt of the nominations." We're familiar with the sequel. I will not talk about him, but I would mention that, at the time of his appointment or order, the President of the State has detected a problem that he has also pointed out to the other branches of government or to the President of the Government and to the President of the National Assembly, in order to have a sound reflection on whether there are any functions in the country of Slovenia for which membership in political parties would be undesirable, burdensome or even prohibited. That's a very difficult thought. It is not a matter of any deplorable expression that has been heard in the debate, but, as we say, we do not agree on it. The debate showed that the political definition depends very much on which policy options are coming from, and it is obviously very wrong if someone from the left party. Last time or third time. Not so much a problem with the appointment of anti-corruption officers. The fundamental problem is in chapter 5 of the Act, which discusses the determination of the property situation of political function holders. That's the problem all the time. This has led to the story, and it is necessary to prove in every way what is right and what is wrong. This could also be explained by what the Constitutional Court found in 2007 when it discussed the Law on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a profitable activity, and then the Social Democrats, with the first-signed Mirano Potrč, submitted two proposals for a law. Both were rejected, and you could be shown here in the Chamber by 13 who opposed the law on integrity in public administration. 13 of them are still in Parliament, and so we should finally admit to the bush of the rabbit. The source of wealth and control over it is what grieves [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u150	If only it were so easy to solve something that would only be called people who are not in political parties. You know, in Slovenia, because of a transition that has not been successful, politics is everything and everything is politics, and those in the political party are only openly telling the truth about their beliefs. A problem arises when the day before appointment gives way to conceal it. And an even bigger problem is if the president of that political party to which this person belongs publicly claims that he does not know this person at all, and then a picture is published, which he looks at at a distance of one metre at a joint meeting. If I read Mr Daninos, who said that silence was the only gold that disgusted women, I suppose Mrs President of the Government would have given it a lot of thought before she said that. And here's the problem. That's why the records were destroyed, so the magnetograms were burning. This is why everything is turning upside down today, because it is now clear exactly what KPK is really – a politicized and abused institution to deal with political opponents, such as, unfortunately, something else in Slovenia where they are being dumped, the political personnel have fallen. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerko Chehovin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u152	Thank you so much for saying that. After all this debate today, what I have said this morning has been confirmed – that we will not be able to reach some startling conclusions, especially since things are sometimes missing from the ad rem system on ad persona, and when we dig it up, then let us not count each other. There are certainly some good conclusions at that time, and there can be no debate. I think we could wrap this up very quickly today. We could simply find that the proposaler does not have the majority support in this House for this commission to be abolished. I think they already know that because they have come to some contradictions when they want this to be stopped and, on the other hand, they propose additions and amendments to the existing law. Here you'll have to decide what you want. If I speak on behalf of our client, I can say that it is clear to us that the existing law, as we have it, must be supplemented or amended. This law, which may indeed have been in great faith to be effective, good, has also shown in the functioning of the current Senate that we have some shortcomings. First of all, I would like to mention this problem that the PKK is legally placed in the legal order so that its work is politically effective, legally transparent and constitutionally impracticable. This should be the point of legislation or amendments to this legislation. In law itself, we have some illogicality when criminal powers are intertwined on the one hand in this commission with the gripping of investigative journalism and all forms of, say, materials, from applications, even anonymities and something else, and then there is a so-called conclusion on whether this act has so-called corruption risk. These are already internal conflicts in the law itself, so I think it would be very important, very clever, that the constitutional analysis of this law, prepared by three lawyers, Pirnat, Čebulj and Ribičič, would also be given a bigger place in the debates in the National Assembly and would also serve as a basis for the reform of this legislation. It seems to me that this is very important, and we could end up here by recommending to the Government, as soon as possible, to prepare these amendments, to supplement legislation to remedy some of the shortcomings. The second thing I would not like to talk about is that my colleague, Melita Župevc, has talked a lot about this is the process of appointing the current or new Senate. First of all, I can very frankly say that this problem would not even have happened if this KPK leadership had not stepped down in the middle of the mandate and would have continued its work. Why they did this, it is still unclear to me, especially since I have to say that there is also a will in the National Assembly, and there has already been a will to implement some of the suggestions that have been made, and we have already implemented them in legislation. Some important laws are adopted and some will be adopted shortly, and I think there is a majority political will to change these matters. But I am asked a question, which is also in the content of a letter written by the President of the State to the President of Parliament and to the President of the Government concerning membership in political parties. Here I must say that I do not have clear things in the sense that no one who is a member of this committee should be a member of a political party. Perhaps the restrictions apply to leadership, to the authorities of these parties, but I do not think so, and also constitutionally, I think that we should not be members of this committee as well as members of political parties. I feel like we don't realize that in 1990 or 1991, when we were changing the system, we passed a multilateral democracy in the country. And we said that political action takes place through political parties, through elections to this Parliament. A few things like this – let's say, except for the military and the police, we have the opportunity to have people take political action and are formally members of political parties. Even in Owl they may be members of political parties, even in some other such services that may be sensitive, and I see no reason why they should place more emphasis here only on this committee and thus risk the anti-constitutional positioning of the members of the Senate and of the others who act in this. So I think I have to agree with all those who have highlighted this problem. In fact, whether we really want to have bats in all our functions or calculators that are now calculating where they would be, the next day they find that if you're politically sterile, that you have more options, you're going somewhere. I think there's a bigger problem here that we don't know how to separate politics from professional work. That's more of a problem. Therefore, I stand personally in the position that every human being should be given the opportunity to prove himself, and not so hysterically when we take each person's lead on a knife as soon as he is politically contaminated. So once again, I repeat whether it is that someone is defined or, as it is said in Primorsk, that 'not the south, not the jugler', but that he has his belief, he is necessarily handicapped. I don't think so, but with the help of the media, we have created such a position in this country that every political engagement necessarily means that you are somehow biased and so on. Although I know a lot of people who do their professional work quality, responsible, professionally, and they are not affected by their work by their political definition. Therefore, I repeat: it seems to me that, if anything has been useful in this debate – because it is only this realization that political engagement does not necessarily mean that you are already disabled in certain functions. Perhaps this would apply to those who have performed certain important functions, such as the Presidents of governments, ministers or other such persons who have already had certain matters behind them, and it is difficult to control those with whom you have acted. Especially in this last case, when, if anyone believes or does not, this particular gentleman, who is now the head of this commission, except colleague Fick, was not known by anyone in the party. For all of us, it was a surprise, as it was for all of us. Once again, if anyone believes or doesn't believe that I can tell myself that I've never seen him. He never stood up, never spoke either at congresses or at any other forum or at a party body. If he has decided to step out – I think that, at least for me, it is more of a reflection of some public pressure than of some work that demands that he be applauded. Nevertheless, I repeat: I think everyone has the right to show what he is capable of, and I also wish Mr Stephenean to deny all those who doubt his work. But if it turns out to be the other way around, I'll probably change my mind myself. Once again, however, only political party membership is not necessarily a handicap for the quality of its function. And one more thing. Whether we have such and similar bodies in comparable countries in Europe, whether it is called a commission, whether it is an office, whether it is a ministry, whether it is a parliamentary body, or whether it is another one — it is not at all that important. The more the problem is that we need these organs and we need this commission. Why? Because corruption is a social problem and the evil of this society. If things were to be otherwise arranged, such an authority might not be needed, but it does not seem to me appropriate to transfer certain powers to the Court of Auditors, since the Court of Auditors has nothing to do with private finances or property. Let me finish. I think that there is a need to complement the complementary legislation that will largely address the dilemmas that have been raised in these debates today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u153	Thank you, too. The next one who can get a word is the representative of the Government, Mr Boštjan Šefic. [[He doesn't want to.]] Then there's Dr. Vinko Gorenak's proposal. You want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u154	Thank you very much. I have to do some things again because I've been sitting in the hall all day, and the rest of you have been going out more or less, and then things look a little funny when we say things over and over again. Mr Chehovin, I agree with you that this is not the most important organisational form. But what we have in Slovenia is nowhere in Europe. That's an important thing. In particular, they do not have the powers that this Commission has. This Commission may write those principled opinions that this is the suspicion of corruption, the suspicion of systemic corruption and similar indications. There are no such laws or powers in any country in the European Union, regardless of what they have, whether they have a self-service or something in the internal or judicial ministry. That's the truth. A few years ago, Dr. Jelusic had broken things down as to what they looked like in Austria. I agree. That's true, but it's also important to know that Austria doesn't have a single job. He's got something on the inside, something in the Justice Department, and then he's got things all the way to the end, even to the courts. This is still missing in the Slovenian space. If we have a specialized prosecutor's office, and we consider it such a crime, then we are still missing something in the judiciary, which Minister Plitcanic has talked about a lot, and so far nothing has been proposed in the National Assembly. Once again, I must repeat what has been said several times: the PKK is pursuing corruption. Not to be said that I'm offensive, but look, I repeat: KPK does not pursue corruption. First of all, we need to conceptually clear things up – what are the crimes of corruption that can cause you to go to jail in the final stage, and what are corrupt practices. Corruption covers such a concept and the criminal acts of corruption is so much. I suspect that someone has acted corruptly is not criminal, and that is not corruption. Even if that famous mayor I was talking about bought some carnations from his municipal councilman, because he has the only flower shop nearby, it is corruption according to the KPK criteria, but it is not a crime of corruption, amen, pika. And that's why you can't go to jail. The situation is simply so that we can first separate these concepts as such. When we have these concepts cleared up, then we can talk about all the other things. Indeed, something else, namely that the Commission, in order to prevent corruption on the basis of its conduct, especially those public communications, press conferences and so on, has made an impression in this country — what some have said — that everything is corrupt. Above all, they are directors, Members, Ministers and Presidents of governments – this is so clear that it is corruption itself. This is an artificial created state that does not correspond to the actual state, because if the commission says: this is a suspicion of corruption – I have already said that my neighbor sees and sees if any envelope comes out of my pocket. It's absolutely not a related matter. As far as the Commission is concerned, it is very influential, as has been said. Of course she's very influential. The government has now followed those famous 15 demands, but let's ask ourselves something. From 2011, when this Commission leadership was put in place, until its resignation, 29. 11. 2013 I think it was, or the 28th, this commission never said: change the law, we need different legal provisions. She never said that. But now she has come up with some famous 15 requirements, and, at least personally, I agree with 14 even. Except for the fact that they need more authority. I don't agree with that. It is possible to agree with others, but why they did not do so at the end of 2011, at the beginning of 2012, in the middle of 2013, if you want. No, we've been told that corruption in banks is as much as you want, which we can agree on, but they haven't explored anything. They told us that there is a lot of corruption in health, which we can also agree with, but we already knew that without them. Then it's a waste of money for them. We need something else, not as much KPK as it is now. Mr Secretary of State, I will say this: let's be realistic – try to do something without telling me what you've found. Do an anonymous crime poll with your analytics and ask criminals what they think about KPK. You can speak, and also some Members, how this is necessary, how this is urgent, how good it is. No chief of police will come in front of the camera and tell the truth. You know what they'll tell you? If there wasn't a microphone, I'd do something, but I can't. They'll say it's nothing to interfere with their work and they're having trouble with them themselves. This will be communicated by economic criminals because they know precisely that their rating has fallen because of the anti-corruption commission. Because this commission keeps talking about corruption, like this corruption is flying through the air like a flock of birds. She sees it, but criminals are blind, they're bad, they're stupid, they don't want to, and so on. This is how it comes out in public, but real anti-corruption fighters are criminals and not KPK. I am therefore sure that such a survey among criminals would make it very clear that they do not agree with the Commission because it is an obstacle to them and is a problem, not a solution to problems. The problem is solved by criminals. Come in. A significant question raised by Mrs Opec in the morning: what is the measure of success of the KPK? I am pleased that a young person asks such a question because it is a fundamental question. Each institution that exists in the country has some criteria and criteria for its success. What is the meter by which we measure the Commission's effectiveness in preventing corruption? I don't know that. Except that they did the supervisor or whatever it is. That was fine, but everything else I've estimated so far has done more harm than good, much more harm than good. To conclude, because time is coming to an end. The question was also raised as to what she had discovered. Someone was bragging about what the KPK discovered. KPK didn't find anything! They're sitting in offices because they don't walk around and find out. The PKK has found nothing in the area of corruption. Everything that is has been sent to them by others, anonymously, with reports or whatever. They didn't find anything themselves. We need to be very clear here. A number of criticisms were from coalition Members of all kinds, when: you needed a problem, you made an affair Štefanec – not true! Once again, the matter with the current KPK President was opened by Private Bojan Požar, and the first press conference was yours when you all attacked him, from A to Z. We were quiet, only later we answered. Otherwise, the conclusions we have proposed – we will not vote on them because the coalition has not accepted them, which I regret. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u155	Thank you, too. Mr Jerko Čehovin applied to the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u156	Otherwise, I apologize to the motioner because he has no time left. He mentioned me by simply confirming what I said in his debate. Let me be more clear. Once again, I say that internal conflicts in the existing law need to be rectified and resolved. The second thing is to redefine powers, to redefine procedures and, last but not least, to me, to be very important, to define procedural guarantees in the law that the current participants who were the subject of the investigation or the treatment of the Commission had not, irrespective of political colour, had. This must be introduced into this law, and from this point of view I see no contradictions between what he was saying at the end, in the last minute, Dr. Gorenak, and what I was saying earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u157	Thank you. All the names you've been on the list, you've got your word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I invite you to report for discussion. There's six reported, everyone's got five minutes. The first one has the word Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u158	Thank you very much. I kind of ran out of time before. Mr. Chekovin, I didn't criticize you. You sound like I've been criticizing you. I'm not you, and I can agree in one part, and I mentioned it. Let me get to the bottom of this. Any meeting of the National Assembly that we are proposing, at least as I recall them, since I have been back in the National Assembly with my previous functions, ends in the same way as today's, this is without a vote, because the coalition is unable to vote even a decision, I do not know that it is Monday. I'll do my best, and I'll try to suggest some of the next meetings, say it's a day, and maybe at 12 o'clock, because it's not a night. This is what I remember that the coalition read to the government from 2004-2008, and then we had a very serious discussion on this in the government. One of the questions addressed to the then Prime Minister Janša was: you do not want to accept anything. Those were the eyewitnesses. Whatever we suggest, you won't accept. As a result of that, there was a debate in the government, where the then Prime Minister made it very clear to the ministers at the time: wait, a proposal for a decision coming from the opposition cannot be rejected because the opposition has proposed it, but it must be seriously examined. During the period 2004-2008, we had, of course, conclusions, including the so-called development partnership, where we aligned more than 60% of the laws with the opposition at the time. Some of the co-ordinators are also here, especially those from SD. We were trying to somehow give our hand to the opposition at the time. Today in these conclusions, those that we have here before us, which you have already rejected, in all those who have been proposed so far, and I have already written some of them for these extraordinary sessions – not a single conclusion. I'm sorry, so I'm going to take my conclusions very briefly in these two minutes. For the first time, we wanted the Commission's powers to prevent corruption to be regulated in the way it is in the European Union. In the debates, you have somehow let yourself know that this could also be the case with changes to the law that follows, but it is very clear that if you imagine more repressive powers, this is not the right way. If this is about preventive powers, it's the right way. However, the future law must certainly stop with the suspicions of corruption, the possibilities of corruption, systemic corruption and such expressions. These are no legal concepts against which individuals can fight in one way or another before the courts. Secondly, we wanted to control the assets of the officials to make public and transfer them to the Court of Auditors. The public is the one who knows best. Each of us has such or different neighbors, such or other acquaintances. If we publish our assets online, people are the best control. Otherwise, we wanted to be controlled by the Court of Auditors, which is nothing wrong. And third, we wanted and proposed – you refused – that the Commission should perform preventive tasks in order to prevent corruption. The possibilities of where he works are more – in the Ministry of Justice, in the Ministry of Justice, in both of them, as in Austria. Nor would they have objected to the fact that the Commission, as such, remains, but only deals with prevention. Professor Dobovšek has been a longtime advocate of the Commission for the prevention of corruption. In its recent performances, it is very clear that we must have such a commission with only preventive tasks. Even if you take all the others, this remarkable three professors of the Faculty of Law who wrote a legal opinion for the President of the State are also going in this direction that the Commission does not need repressive powers. If a coalition is capable of something similar, similar to digestive, to prepare for the marriage, I see no difficulty in cooperating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u159	Thank you, too. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u160	Thank you, Mr. President. I have already mentioned that the Social Democrats proposed two laws in 2007. The first proposal was linked to a decision of the Constitutional Court which repealed the individual provisions of the Law on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity. This was rejected, just as it was then – we have proposed the termination of this law – a proposal for a law on integrity in the public sector has been rejected. But more interestingly, the government then considered or explained that in July 2007 it had prepared some of the amendments to the Law on the Incompatibilities of performing a public function with a profit-making activity, where two proposals appear, the same as now – that the supervision of public officials should be carried out in one part by the Court of Auditors and, in the other part, that the decision should be referred to the Constitutional Court. At least this second part is denied by the current proposal or views of the SDS. It is interesting, however, that asset control is such a neurological point in what the Anti-Corruption Commission or the Anti-Corruption Commission is doing. I would also like to point out that when we talk about efficiency, we need to know what are the criteria for measuring efficiency. If we are not based on the legal provisions laid down in the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, then we can talk about anything and wonder how many people the Commission has sent to the Age to prevent corruption, and we know that this is not its task. But when we talk about efficiency, we say it's not effective because it didn't send anyone to the Age. If we talk about this in Article 2, where the purpose of the law is recorded, point 7 states that the Commission should be independent, independent state authority to strengthen integrity and anti-corruption, to define tasks and so on. Here, the anti-corruption commission is not defined as a repressive body – it is known who it is. However, the three-member expert group asked by the President of the State for an opinion to mention something about the fact that Article 2 of the current law does not affect the proposed amendment in relation to amendments or amendments to the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. This article is intact. However, some other articles have been amended. What the expert group or this expert opinion specifically emphasises is the scope of the proposed amendments, which then raises the question of whether it can be a novel or a new law should be written. But in the end, I warn you of something that is essential to me. In view of the fact that they believe that the Commission is necessary to prevent corruption in order to be able to upgrade the law in force — not to reject it but to upgrade it — that certain provisions need to be reconsidered. However, we cannot simply claim, in the view of the project group, that everything mentioned in these proposed amendments is disputed. I think that this opinion should be examined and the amendments to the Law on Integrity and the Prevention of Corruption should be taken seriously, so that experts cooperate in order to make a public presentation of the opinions on this matter acceptable, not quickly and ad hocly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u161	Thank you, too. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u162	Thank you so much for saying that. I took the floor to try to say in a slightly different way what my colleague, Cernač, Gorenak or the leader of the Jože Tanko delegation group wanted to say today to the leader of the Positive Slovenia Group, Mr Möderndorfer. Since at least these arguments were not heard in his light, I will now try to explain in his field of medicine what we are talking about today. First of all, we can talk about corruption as one of the broad forms of cancer. Today we discussed in particular that this cancer was created with our body, i.e. by the constitution of the Slovenian state. No, this cancerous creation has its own DNA, has corrupted DNA that's been transferred across the country. In addition to killings and killings, we have identified the widespread corruption carried out by Ubba and part of the Central Committee of the Union of Communists. All of these were stolen mainly from state-owned companies and the previous communist system, gambling – we had Smelt company, we had NLB, which also the late Niko Kavčič talked about where millions were stolen, and with all this money, Udba, the secret political police, together with the central committee, worked. Anyone who tried to get at least a little closer to the former communist systems was killed, killed or expelled from that country. That was the basic DNA. By establishing this country, we have also transferred part of this cancer to the Slovenian country. We did not perform extensive chemotherapy that could be called lustration. Today we have all these metastases that we find in the wider areas of this organism. We have this metastasis in the judiciary, and the metastases are also incredibly spreading to the media and especially to state-owned societies, and these metastases are the worst or the most metastasized banking sector. We're talking sick stuff. Today's debate, which my fellow Members wanted with legal or some social comparisons with other systems to explain to my colleague Möderndorfer and other members of the coalition, was what kind of chemotherapy we can use. We were talking about an institution that was supposed to do this chemotherapy called the anti-corruption commission. All those who appointed this commission today have pointed to the choice itself, the extremely complex and extremely inconsistuous system of the Commission's choice. Finally, we have chosen this commission to work – we are talking about some selective chemotherapy that would cure these cancer cells and leave some of the healthy cells where we can see honest people, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who rise up in the morning, who work, who create our well-being, wider export companies, healthy, young startup companies who want Slovenia to become an extremely competitive country. So that all of these people can be preserved within healthy cells and reach into these cancer cells selectively. What did they do? By appointment, they see selectivity, or selectivity, by being tolerant of these left cancer cells, but they might best try to hit the so-called right cancer cells. Unfortunately, 20 years of history have shown that right cancer cells are the least problematic. Most of the affairs we had, in the economy, in all matters, took place on the left side. Most of the bad loans are from the Forum 21 base, i.e. from ex-cancer cells that rekindled in this new young organism. This has been pointed out by my fellow Members today, and that is how we can act. It is not a political issue in which someone has been or has not been, but it must be said in a transparent way. A number of sociologists, as well as the late Jože Pučnik, spoke of a so-called bolan or a damaged body of civil society in the former totalitarian regimes. Civil society in the former totalitarian regime did not exist either. Here we could see that the secret political police, together with the central committee, also controlled these civil society cells, which are also left-handed. If I finish. We need to go to selective chemotherapy in the medical field. This selective chemotherapy has proved to be best in so-called lustrations in approximately the same cancer patients in foreign countries – that it is best to sell as much state property as possible, to acquire ownership and thus deactivate and hit selectively [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Cancer cells. [[...]] This is what my fellow Members wanted to explain to the coalition today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u163	Thank you, too. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u164	Thanks again. If I continue where my colleague Beznik ended up. We have warned several times in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the tissue is very sick and that the therapy has not been successful, that the drugs have not been taken, that the doctors have obviously not been trained or they do not want to be properly trained. Months ago, when this Chamber of the Corruption Commission resigned, we proposed that this system should be changed, that it should be improved, that it would be effective, that this tissue would finally be healed and that most of this tissue would be healed, not as today, when this diseased part was already growing healthy, and Slovenia is, in our opinion, at a point where there is a very high risk of this disease winning. We know what that means. The country is bankrupt at its final stage, people have no more opportunities, young people will not have jobs, pensions will not be, and so on. This is all due to this situation in which Slovenia today has not faced this problem of systemic corruption and all the other worst corrupt practices in a proper and timely manner. KPK has clearly not been an appropriate medicine in the last 10 years. My colleague Gorenak said that we wanted Slovenia to follow those practices of European countries that are successful in this area, and if we are a fugitive with this KPK organisation or have something similar in three other countries south-east of us who are even worse off because of the problem of corruption than we are, where this infection is even greater and this dark color, the dark field is even stronger than here, then it is right to follow the example of those in which this color is cleaner, more white or brighter. These countries are mainly north of us, and the arrangements in these countries say that they do not know such a body as the Anti-Corruption Commission. However, they have a significantly lower level of crime and a significantly higher degree of transparency in the functioning of the public sector and public officials. This is essentially what we wanted to achieve through the debate at today’s meeting – not only to limit ourselves to this unfortunate process, which has to the end exposed this policy of the KPK’s previous leaderships, but to establish some basis or some answer for pre-emptive behaviour. Unfortunately today, we have not received an answer to the question of what this government will do to make the prosecution of the worst corruption crime more effective. We don't have that answer. We also have no answer as to why the PKK has since its establishment been proven to be a political tool to prosecute politically incompatible but not an instrument to help eradicate corruption. In its opinion, the government even considers that this Commission is undoubtedly necessary, as the supreme supervisor in the fight against corruption and as a guarantor of ensuring integrity or preventing the exploitation and abuse of public functions. How will this KPK do so under the leadership of Mr Štefanec, who stepped out of Positive Slovenia only to impress this sovereignty, integrity and so on? How will this commission, for example, investigate an official from Positive Slovenia? Whatever she finds out, she'll be known in public as problematic and incredulous. How will this Commission work successfully if non-transparent is incorporated into the appointment process if these magnetograms are destroyed, magnetograms or minutes of interviews with individual candidates, if we do not know how many of those who have applied have been or are even more qualified to perform this function than the one who has been appointed president? This is not to say that this procedure has been inappropriate, non-transparent, politically biased, specifically aimed at putting the right person in this place because the Positive Slovenia and the ruling coalition will be in control of this last part, which functions in public as some anti-corruption body, if we know that a number of controversial steps have been taken in the process, which say that the procedure has been untransparent and that the calls have been repeated only because of the fact that someone who is politically appropriate is finally compatible and will be able to obey orders. Because that's what it's always been about. Orders have been obeyed, but they do not order law and law, but orders from those who control this country instead of us who are sitting in this Parliament today. If the government and the ruling coalition do not recognize this, it is a sad and bad journey to eradicate it. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u165	Thank you. Mrs Sonja Ramshak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State and those Members and Members of Parliament that you have endured in these late hours! I regret that there are some Members and Members who have said quite a few criticisms to my work as President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, too. First of all, I'm thinking about the part where I've been diagnosed with illegal conduct. I think that the illegality of conduct can be decided by the authorities responsible, not by individual Members and Members. I have already made it clear on the Commission's mandate to control the assets of the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption that if the competent authorities find out that I have acted unlawfully, I will also accept my responsibility. However, since the Commission's work to prevent corruption has been repeatedly exposed, I should add to these discussions that the Commission itself has not acted in accordance with the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. We have also warned Members of Parliament and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party on several occasions on the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government. Indeed, it was late not only for the submission of reports on the property situation, i.e. individual members of the Senate, but also for reports on the work of the Anti-Corruption Commission were not submitted in accordance with the law or deadlines. Nor did the reports contain the essential content laid down by the law. Last but not least, given the fact that you are reading what that cancer is that hurts us in the Slovenian Democratic Party, this is the Commission's report on the prevention of corruption over the property situation of the presidents of parliamentary parties, and I think that it is also right for the Slovenian public to say that it is the former President of the Commission, Mr. Kos, that Dignitas published a detailed analysis of this procedure, and those who want to read it and see it, but let me tell you what the author himself said in this summary: "The Commission for the Prevention of Corruption for the issue of its report did not have a legal basis." Very interesting. Why? Because it did not only apply the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, it also applied the Anti-Corruption Act, which was in force before the current law. Furthermore: "The assets situation of these debtors has also been checked for a period for which they should not have done so." Of course, because she used an illegal legal basis. "The Commission did not follow the legal obligation to inform the persons concerned of its findings." We know that they did not have the opportunity to give their opinion on the report and thereby protect their rights. I believe their constitutional rights have been violated. "In the report, it also published data on assets that should not be published for two debtors." What does that mean? She broke the law. In his conclusions, Mr Kos also said: "The Commission has examined the assets of the debtors for a period for which it should not have done so." Let me point out that, from a material point of view, she assessed the property situation of 30. 1. 2004 to 5. 6. 2010 So it's illegal. The document is primarily intended for the public and there is the possibility that the Commission has too extensively informed the authorities in which the debtors perform their functions or the authorities responsible for the appointment or election of the debtors. If we look at it in detail, we could agree on why in the Slovenian Democratic Party we propose a different regulation of the Commission's action to prevent corruption or why we believe that the law as such does not provide adequate grounds for proper work in the field of anti-corruption. Of course, the investigating and prosecution authorities are the ones who are supposed to be actually persecuting corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u167	Thank you, too. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u168	Thank you so much for saying that. Some Members referred in this debate to the opinions of the Legal and Legislative Service, which ordered us to do some drafting corrections as regards the decisions, and we did so. Whether it satisfied the coalition or not, it is clear – it did not satisfy it. However, if the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service were so respected in the coalition, then members of the Coalition would never adopt the Real Estate Tax Act, which is now the subject of a constitutional judgment. It was editorial comments with us and we eliminated them. The Real Estate Tax Act, however, dealt with the substantive comments of the Legal and Legal Service, and they were hit dead by the coalition cold. That's one part, so let's open this thing up and light it up. The second point in which I would refer to what Sonja Ramšak has just said is a record or an analysis by the first President of the Commission to prevent corruption. It is difficult for those who have read this analysis of the control of the assets of the presidents of the parties to avoid being targeted or acting like a bounty hunter. It is said that she was looking for a precise situation, a solution to be burdened by someone, and a specific situation, and she carried out a procedure such that no one noticed. Mr Virant was supervised twice by this committee, first as President of the Parliamentary Party and secondly as President of the National Assembly, and secondly as one who was suspected or found to have bought very cheap tickets from a state-owned air carrier who drowned in losses. Not in the first or second control did the Anti-Corruption Commission find nothing. Only after the publication of an anonymous letter between him and one of Adria Airways’ employees came out that it was a low - price deal. It is only now that the commission has somehow decided to re-supervise the departure. What kind of work is it to look at such important things for more time than the banking system? What was the work of the Commission, for example, in controlling the banking system, when it did not wish to report on its findings to the investigating committee of the National Assembly, not to report on what it had found, not to disclose any of the names on those files. It protects persons involved in the largest bank hole in the history of this country, the anti-corruption commission. On the other hand, he deals with marginals that he can put on someone in one way or another, such as paying, not paying, or paying in one way or another. It is not a systemic approach, it is not an approach to the weight of the problems from the top down, it is a search for victims, and it is a part of the space that definitely does not belong to the work to which it belongs – either a selection commission or members of the Commission's Senate to prevent corruption. This is a problem of this system, and it is not possible to expect any positive results from such a commission to prevent corruption because it does not find anything where the whole of Slovenia talks about it, because it sees nothing where we invest billions and billions of euros in recapitalisations, and to a large extent also because of the crimes of those who have managed the banking system and is looking for errors in some of the media-exposed political representatives of some option. This is not a fight against corruption. This is on the one hand concealing corruption and on the other hand identifying or establishing the appearance of suspicion of corruption. On this side, no sanctions, no casualties, on the other hand, virtually demolishing the person, his family and so on. If this is the objective of this coalition, then we have moved very deeply, and I believe that these things must be put in place as we have proposed in our proposals for conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-24-SDZ6-Izredna-58.ana.u169	Thank you. This concludes the general debate on the proposal for a decision. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 12. 2009 The National Assembly notes that the procedure for examining the proposal for a decision has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also conclude the 58th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you and good-bye for the next session.
