ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 23rd session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič, Mrs Irena Tavčar and Mr Dragutin Mate. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amending the law on financial transactions, procedural reasons for insolvency and forcible termination. The draft law was submitted to the National Council for consideration. The bill is being proposed at the 18th session of the 12th. 3. 2014 treated the Committee on Justice as a parent working body. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views, first of all Mr Mirko Brulc, who will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u2	Hello, good morning, good morning! The State Council shall submit to the legislative procedure a proposal for a new Law on financial operations, insolvency proceedings and compulsory termination with a view to deleting the amendment, a new provision of Article 473.a defining the language of cooperation, for the matters defined in Articles 471 and 472. For domestic courts and local administrators, it is possible to use English in individual, legal cases from now on in addition to Slovenian. The use of English is limited under Article 473a in relation to insolvency proceedings with a cross-border element and does not constitute an extension of the optional language to all insolvency proceedings. The arrangements apply only to cooperation between the domestic court and the administrator, i.e. in the relationship between the State authorities or the judicial authorities and not in the relationship between the authority of the proceeding and the party. It is not to be overlooked that, in its explanation for the November 2013 amendment, the applicant adopted and indicated that domestic courts and administrators could cooperate with foreign courts and administrators in cooperation under Regulation 1346/2000 in the English language. The Secretary of State explained to us on the home working body that we had rushed the implementation of the regulation this time, since the final draft of that regulation is not expected to be on the table until June this year. In addition to the use of English for a more effective international bankruptcy procedure, some other mechanisms will be introduced in this Regulation. On the basis of this, however, the provisions of an international insolvency procedure may be challenged by the State Council. In Slovenia, the Slovenian language is the official language and will remain that way. It is true, however, that in many working environments, especially in the private sector, English is more common in the working language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u3	Thank you, too. Mr Richard Braniselj will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u4	Good afternoon, fellow classmates, Secretary of State, Justice Department team! In its legal initiative, the Council of State wanted the repeal of Article 473a of the Financial Business Act, insolvency proceedings and compulsory termination for reasons of protection of the Slovenian language. The article under consideration only criminalises the possibility of using Slovenian or English as a language of cooperation of the domestic court or of a local administrator with a foreign court or a foreign administrator in insolvency proceedings, in cases where cross-border effects occur. The provision for the use of English in these exceptional cases does not impose this, but only allows and is left to the courts and the administrator if they consider this to be reasonable and operational. Such a choice can make a significant contribution to a more direct, efficient and cost-effective business in these processes. In the Republic of Slovenia, we have been saying for years and years that the problem of insolvency proceedings is their stiffness, complexity and longevity, which is why these procedures are losing efficiency and thus we lose many healthy cores in businesses and jobs that can be solved by faster procedures. The basic principles of insolvency are the speed principle, the principle of economics and the principle of maintaining healthy kernels in companies. However, when we introduce such a practical solution into the legislation, which, without any harm to the participants, follows the principles mentioned above, there are absolute guardians of the Slovenian language in the National Assembly, who give the latter an advantage over the interests of all participants in the process and against the public interest of maintaining healthy businesses and jobs. And such a harmful law should be rejected at the beginning of the legislative procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u5	Thank you, too. Mr Janez Ribič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u6	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for your word, President of the National Assembly. First of all, as the Slovenian People's Party, we certainly advocate the use of the Slovenian language and we want the Slovenian language to remain and live. As regards the proposed law, which should delete Article 473.a, which allows domestic courts and local administrators to use the official language of the domestic court or of the English language in international cooperation, we can express a certain degree of concern. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we understand the concern of the proposer, who considers this arrangement unnecessary and harmful. We also agree with the assessment that the Government's statements that the English language is generally established in the international economic space are unfounded. It is true that we are in the European Union, that we have free movement of goods, services, persons and capital, but we also have rules by which our language is equal to others. We do not need to favour English, as the use of English could even make it difficult or impossible to communicate in certain procedures. At the same time, Slovenian companies certainly do a lot of business with companies from areas of German-speaking countries, and then we are back to the question of why English alone. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we think it would be better if we retain only Slovenian or two other official languages in Slovenia for the procedures in question, since already in one way or another our language loses the role that it should play as a mother tongue, especially if we look at the often unreasonable and disproportionate extent of the use of English in science and education. The Slovenian People's Party Group regrets that the articles of the proposed law were not adopted on the home working body and that the legislative procedure is thus terminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u7	Thank you. Mariana Kotnik Popotat. Change. Mrs Plevčak, will you present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia? Here you go, Mrs. Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u8	Nice greetings to all present. In the DeSUS Group, we estimate that the proposed amendment to the State Council is unacceptable, so we will vote against the Members and Members of the DeSUS Group. The proposal that we have before us, of course, also makes sense in my opinion and in the sense that we decide that our courts and managers will be able to use, in cooperation on an international scale, in addition to the official one, that is Slovenian, also English. This non-necessity of the article was pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service last November as well as by the National Council Commission. We are aware that this, paragraph 473, is inconsistent with the Slovenian Public Use Act and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which stipulates that the official language in the Republic of Slovenia is the Slovenian language or language of minorities. I am convinced that Slovenian is an official language and working language in our country and the European Union, but we must be aware that in the international environment, EU rules are applied, allowing for cooperation in English as well. It was interesting that the Ministry of Justice's government Presidency was justified at a meeting of the State Council, and I quote, "that this article will increase the number of investments or foreign investments in the Republic of Slovenia", says that foreign investors will be confident that less obstacles to bankruptcy will be placed in Slovenia. That's an incredible excuse! In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we join the Government's opinion that this proposal is not acceptable because the English language is generally applied in the international economic area. It is true that the use of English is not compulsory, but only permitted, since the operation or use of English in the international space is more favourable, efficient and more economical. Given that the Government opposes such a proposal and that in our parliamentary group we find that the Slovenian language in such forms of international cooperation between courts and administrators in the context of insolvency proceedings with a cross-border element is not at risk but, at the very least, out of the European space, we will not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u9	Thank you. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u10	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for today's amendment to the law on financial transactions inflows due to insolvency and forcible cessation of interference with the use and use of Slovenian language in insolvency proceedings. In particular, it is an acceptable alternative use of English in the procedures for the exchange of information between our courts and managers with foreign courts and administrators. This novelty was introduced into our legislation on the basis of the last amendment to the insolvency law, which was adopted in the National Assembly on 27 November 2013 by a new 473.a. In New Slovenia, we believe that the Council of State has rightly pointed out the problem of the introduction of the admissibility of alternative use of English into judicial proceedings, which, in our view, is controversial in terms of constitutional regulation. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia clearly states in Article 11 that Slovenia is the only official language, except in areas where the ethnic minority lives and where the official languages are also Italian and Hungarian. From the point of view of the Constitution, it is therefore clear that in Slovenian as an urban language, all authorities in Slovenia are obliged to operate both orally and in writing, i.e. Slovenian courts and administrators in the exchange of information with foreign administrators and foreign courts. I would also like to stress the fact that the accession treaty to the European Union has made Slovenia one of the official languages of the European Community and is fully equivalent to the other official languages of the European Community. Legally, there is no need for English to be used as one of the languages of the exchange of information with foreign courts and managers in insolvency proceedings. The practicality of the possibility of using the English language referred to by the Government in its opinion also entails traps of its kind. In understanding individual foreign expressions, there are often misunderstandings and we already have a bad experience in Slovenia. Remember the disputes over understanding the expression Junction in the international arbitration on the regulation of the maritime border with Croatia. Article 473a of the Law will therefore be unnecessarily complicated and will not facilitate insolvency proceedings. For this reason, we have supported the proposal of the new insolvency law, which removes the possibility of using English in the exchange of information between our courts and managers with foreign courts and administrators, because we believe that this legal provision is not only unconstitutional but also unnecessary and even harmful in terms of insolvency proceedings.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u11	Thank you. Ms Maša Kociper will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Last November, the adopted amendment to the Financial Action Act, insolvency and forced termination procedures, as stated above, also contains a new 473.a Article relating to the use of language in insolvency proceedings and the deletion of this Article, was proposed by the Council of State. In particular, the Council of State has proposed deleting an article which provides that, in cooperation with foreign courts and foreign administrations, domestic courts and local administrators may serve the use of a language which is in the official or English language of the domestic court. As a reason for deletion of this Article, applicants shall state that such a provision is unnecessary and harmful and that it relates to judicial proceedings which must be carried out in the official language, if necessary by the participation of sworn interpreters. In the view of the applicants, such a provision could even make it difficult or impossible to communicate in those procedures. In Positive Slovenia, we have not given support to the proposal of the State Council on the home labour body, because we believe that this provision has only transposed existing jurisprudence or even existing practice in this area and that this provision cannot be harmful to the parties. What seems important to us is that the use of English is referred to only as an alternative, there is a different option in addition to the local language, and it is permissible only in these cross-border procedures, but only in cases where there is cooperation between the court and the administrator, not in the case of transactions between the authorities and the parties in the proceedings. Thus, such a provision has no effect on the parties and has no effect on them. Uses, as they say, do not impose, but only allow them. Moreover, such an option also constitutes an essential contribution to more practical, efficient and more economic cooperation, and it is not missing the fact that similar arrangements exist in other areas if I mention only the law on cooperation in criminal matters between EU members. Since this is therefore an alternative arrangement and because it relates only to the business between the authorities and not to the business between the parties, we believe that the existing regime is appropriate and is in no way prejudice to the rights of the parties or to a constitutionally defined relationship with regard to the Slovenian language. However, it certainly makes it possible to work more efficiently and more quickly. We will not support this proposal in Positive Slovenia because of all that has been said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u13	Thank you. Dr. Vinko Gorenak will present the position of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u14	Thank you very much. In Slovenia, the Slovenian official language, in addition to Italian and Hungarian, last year the coalition established that in insolvency proceedings English may also be in certain cases. She did it without our will. The Council of State has introduced a law by which this article seeks to delete and bring it into the framework of the Constitution and the law, and the coalition has opposed it without our will. We will not vote today, so any debate on this subject is essentially pointless. However, I believe that, sooner or later, either the Council of State or anyone who raises this issue will also be brought before the Constitutional Court and that the decision will probably be different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u15	Thank you, too. We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. This concludes exactly the agenda. We're moving on to 12. At the end of the day, this is, on the other hand, a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the confiscation of the assets of an illegal source within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government and I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Tina Brecelj, State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. A nice greeting to all honourable Members and Members of Parliament! This time, a second consideration of the proposed amendment of the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin is already under way. For the introduction, I will briefly state once again the goals that the novel is pursuing. The first is to ensure greater efficiency and uninterrupted cooperation and better coordination between all bodies involved in the confiscation of assets of illicit origin. The second objective is to ensure as much international cooperation as possible and the third to remedy the shortcomings that have been demonstrated in the application of the law for one year in practice. I would like to say that we have been preparing the novel in the working group, whose members were all those who are engaged in the process of taking away the assets of illicit origin, so that we were, I will say, presented firsthand, which are all those obstacles and shortcomings that they perceive in their work. A more detailed solution, because, as it is said, second reading, I will not be presenting myself again today, but I would like to define myself to the amendments tabled. The amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups is supported by the Government, since it is only a nomotechnical correction, since following the amendment of Article 4 a new paragraph has been inserted between the existing paragraphs and it is therefore necessary to regulate the reference in the third paragraph of that Article differently. Unfortunately, however, the Government cannot follow the amendments of the SDS Group. I'll explain the reasons briefly. The amendment to Article 5 provides that the State prosecutor of a financial investigation could not order in the event of a criminal exoneration, suspension of the criminal procedure or dismissal of the indictment, but only in the case of a criminal conviction. In this regard, it should be clarified that under the current PDO, the condition for the introduction of a financial investigation is, therefore, that this condition gives rise to the suspicion that a catalogue crime has been committed. The reasons for suspicion are the lowest evidentiary standard, which must be sufficient for the conduct or activities of the pre-trial procedure to be initiated and to be presented at the beginning of this procedure in the event that the proceedings were subsequently concluded with a conviction or a judgment of acquittal. It is therefore the lowest standard given that the activities of the competent authorities begin. In particular, when we explain our position on this amendment, it is necessary to stress once again that it is a matter of civil procedure, i.e. civil seizure, and that the cauldrons of this procedure are different from those of the criminal procedure. The procedure under the PDO is also completely separate from the criminal procedure. The only link between them is the submission of reasons for suspicion at the start of the pre-trial procedure, which is therefore a condition for the initiation of a financial investigation and then the procedure is separated. With regard to the amendment to Article 8 concerning the establishment of a financial investigative group, the parliamentary group here proposes a somewhat broader dictatorship. They propose to add words so that others can be included in the financial group. We do not believe that such a change is necessary because it is clear from the original proposed dictatorship that the State Prosecutor is drawing up a proposal for the composition of the financial investigation team either as a whole or as a whole from certain representatives. Since the pool of representatives that the group may include, according to our assessment, is sufficiently wide, we believe that further expansion would only create uncertainty; uncertainty for the investigator, who will sit in the group, which, if I simplify, is being investigated. Finally, let me reiterate that it is effective to confiscate assets of illicit origin in the public interest, as it follows from Article 2 of the Constitution, which stipulates that Slovenia is a rule of law, so I propose that you support the proposal. I also propose that a third consideration of the draft law be held at this meeting of the National Assembly if the conditions laid down in Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are met. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u17	Thank you, too. The draft law was also considered by the Committee on Justice as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Branku Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! The Committee on Justice considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin at its 18th meeting, on 12 March 2014. The representative of the proposer presented the same things as in this introductory part, so I would like to leave it out. I would like to point out that the representative of the Supreme Prosecutor, High Prosecutor Aleš Butala, has said that the procedure takes away assets of illegal origin in no part is criminal but civil proceedings, and has also proposed an extension of the 72-hour period for the temporary prohibition of possession of property, which has also been the subject of the amendment. The debate pointed out that the law in practice does not have the effect that no assets of illegal origin have been seized so far, and was also concerned that the novelty of this effectiveness would not increase. In other European countries, although this system is well established, there is a considerable sense of injustice, injustice, mistrust in the rule of law. The Coalition Members felt that justice should be served by the confiscation of assets of illegal origin and that this proposed novelty should also allow this to happen. In the vote, as usual in recent years in Parliament, amendments from the coalition groups have been adopted and amendments from the SDS Group, which have been tabled under the four key articles of the law, have been rejected. Finally, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, all the articles of the law were adopted and, in the light of the amendments adopted, a revised text containing the amendments included, which is an integral part of this report, was prepared and proposed to be adopted by the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u19	Thanks for the report. Since the National Assembly held a general debate at its 21st session on the draft law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups, so we are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate on Article 5. I am putting to the debate Article 8 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? [[Yeah.]] Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Only Article 8 but two sentences, just two sentences on the whole law and then Article 8. We have already assessed on the committee that these changes to the law in some way are not harmful, I will say. It is also true that after two years of validity of this law we have three civil lawsuits for 4 million in all Slovenian courts, with five, six or more billion missing, so that we consider this a problematic matter. By Article 5, I did not make an intentional call, Madam Secretary of State, because I thought it would be appropriate to state your explanation under Article 5. But as for article 8, I don't understand the law the way we used to talk there. In fact, at Article 8, we consider this to be mandatory. On the contrary, the prosecutor is to form this group, to form this group of all those listed there. In fact, only in the latter is the word "or" used; only in the latter is the word "or" and I think it is an obligation for this prosecutor to form this group of all these people, that only the latter, I think, is the Court of Auditors, subject to this alternative "or". Now, if you are disturbed by this provision, at Article 8, at our amendment, the last three words "and others", if that bothers you, we can also put it out for me, but basically I think there is nothing wrong with us having the word "or" in this Article. So if we say that the prosecutor can make up a group, then we can write it out, because the prosecutor will have the opportunity to make up all of these, but he can make up fewer of these organs, but he can attract someone else. In my opinion, the article would be significantly better, significantly more understandable and significantly clearer, so I think it would suggest that the amendment to Article 8 should be supported. Think about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u21	Thank you, too. Does the government want a word or not? Don't you want to discuss it? [[Yeah.]] I'm giving Tina Bracell a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Just one brief explanation. We all want the same thing, so I agree with Mr Gorenak, so our intention was to write an alternative: the prosecutor has the opportunity either to form a group or just from some of the above. However, we believe that this is the last part of the last sentence, when we say, when the listing ends, that is, with the members of the Court of Auditors, and then it is written "in accordance with the proposal of the competent state prosecutor...". We understand this so that this proposal is decisive and the proposal can include all those identified as members of the investigative group or only some of them. Otherwise, as we say, the desire or goal that you pursue and explain, we too wanted to achieve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u23	Thank you. Dr. Vinko Gorenak wants the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Actually, we're both saying the same thing. But I still think our diction is clearer for everyone. If you don't accept this, I'm fine with it, I don't have any particular problem with it, but it seems to me that it would really be clearer – but whatever you want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u25	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 8? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, we will decide on the amendments today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of agenda item 2.a. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, this is a second defensively proposed law on financial management within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. A further explanation of the bill could be given by a representative of the Government. There are no government representatives present at this time who could present this content. We're a little fast on the law, but we don't have any information that anyone could join us right now. That is why we are moving on to the Committee report. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. The presentation of the Committee's report could be submitted by the President, and he is not in the Chamber at this time, so we continue to work. I note, however, that the 21st meeting of the Assembly held a general debate on the proposal for a law, and therefore it is not possible to present the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 9 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the amendment of the parliamentary groups of the coalition. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 43 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia and the National Gazette. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. Excuse me? Is it business? No, no, no. Since no one has been reported, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 43 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia and the National Gazette. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. Excuse me? Is it business? Since no one has been reported, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate article 79a and the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia and the National Gazette. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 104 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia and the National Gazette and the amendment of the parliamentary groups of the coalition. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. Excuse me? Gradually, Mrs. Masha Kociper, I apologize. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u26	President, thank you for your word. I wonder if it would be possible to suspend the meeting in half an hour. As you can see, for more than 3 hours we are ahead of the scheduled schedule or proposed timetable, and it is obvious that people who are supposed to discuss certain points and even representatives of the government are not present. I propose a short interruption, you can order it to be listed all those who need to be at these points, otherwise we will end the point quickly, but there will be no substantive consideration in the way that is needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u27	At this point, we are in the stage when we have discussed all the amendments to the articles tabled, so it is not appropriate to interrupt the debate at this point, because we have already done so. Of course, there have been no notifications to the debate, but in accordance with the Rules of Procedure we cannot go back and reopen the articles. This will allow us to decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today, in the framework of the votes, half of them will be suspended after the adjournment of 2a. agenda items. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a new law on amendments and additions to the ownership law on the transformation of the lotteries of Slovenia within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. Even at this point, I could give the word to the representative of the Government. This moment, the representative is to us for a point that we have already completed. [[…]] We're just going to take a moment to figure out if there's anyone in the government's office or the government's premises in the National Assembly. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we cannot stop working at this point unless there is a representative of the Government present, so that we continue working until the amendments. So, given that the representative of the Government is not in the Chamber, we are going to the Committee's report, namely, the draft law was defended by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as the parent working body and I give the floor to President Joseph Kavtičnik for presentation of the Committee's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u28	Thank you very much, President. Nice greetings from the state secretary at the Ministry of Finance, nice greetings, respected colleagues and colleagues! At its 13th regular session on 11 March 2014, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth considered the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia. The legislative and legal service has examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution. On the basis of Rule 122 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a general discussion was also held. The Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport supported the bill in its opinion. Among other things, it supported efforts to ensure that the Sports Foundation's resources obtained from concessional gambling fees are no longer reduced – as we know, they have decreased by almost one third this year – and agrees that further and permanent sources of financing for sports activities will be held in future necessary discussions. The Committee was co-chaired by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Director-General of the Directorate for Sport, representative of the Executive Committee of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia – Association of Sports Unions and the Secretary of OKS, Head of the Centre for Integrity and Prevention on the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, Director of CNVOS, Director of FIHO, representative of the State Council and representative of the Legislative and Legal Service. At the time of their presentation, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups did not take into account all their comments. The National Separatist at the Ministry of Education, Science and Spatial Planning, Aluš Petrinač, initially said that the proposed law changes the composition of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia, introduces training for the work of the Foundation's world, re-establishes the Director as the governing body of the Foundation and explicitly designates the bodies that oversee the operation and operations of the Foundation. The debate was held in the majority and in particular on the composition of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organisations and the Limitation of Membership in the World Foundation. The representative of the KPK said that the applicant had taken several of their comments into account, but certain warnings remained open. In doing so, she pointed out that the scope of the two Foundations, the Sport Foundation and the Foundation for Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations should be regulated as soon as possible in a specific law, since the Law on Property Change of Lottery Slovenia, by completing the property changes, had fulfilled the purpose of the legislator and had ceased to apply at least in this part because there was nothing left to regulate. Members and Members also agreed on this, and this was under discussion. The representative of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport and Youth also said that within six months up to one year they would prepare such a law. Some debate was held, inter alia, on the financing of the Foundation and the appointment of a plethora of the duties of the Director. Following the conclusion of the discussion, amendments were adopted to Articles 6 and 11 of the PS, SD, DL and DeSUS as well as to the amendments to Article 7 by the MEPs, Ms Plevčak. The amendments of the SDS Group were not adopted. On the basis of Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee also drafted and adopted the amendment to Article 3, which was the amendment of the Committee. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u29	Thank you, too, for the report presented to the Committee. Since the National Assembly held a general debate at its 21st session on the draft law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups, so we are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 7 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. I invite you to report for discussion. Mrs. Matei Pučnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. Honorable President of the National Assembly, distinguished colleague and colleague! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we have already said at the general discussion of the amendments to this law that the law before us unfortunately cannot be supported and adopted because it does not bring sufficient transparency into sport and does not prevent any corruption or other crime in the distribution of lottery funds in advance. For a second reading on the parental committee, we have tabled amendments to all the articles that are changing in the sense that these articles are being deleted and that the existing arrangements, as we consider sport to be the most beneficial. We have also drawn attention to those parts of the amendments to this law, to which the Anti-Corruption Commission, including the Legal and Legislative Service, has warned, and our amendments have been rejected by the coalition and the Commission's proposals to prevent coalition corruption have not been fully taken into account. Thus, today we have tabled an amendment to the only open article to this second reading, which is to Article 7, which states that the fund of funds is used exclusively to finance disabled and humanitarian organisations or, in this case, sports organisations on the basis of the Rules on Criteria and Conditions, which, following this new proposal, is intended to propose to the Council of the Foundation as the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, which is in fact inappropriate and unacceptable also because the Olympic Committee is the largest recipient of these funds and cannot determine for itself the criteria and criteria under which these funds will be distributed. It is true that the amendment adopted by Mrs Plevčak of DeSUS, which brings a very similar, almost identical regime, as already in the existing law, was proposed on the home committee and also in this second reading, which only confirms the fact that the amendment to this article would not have been necessary at the outset. And we can't get rid of the feeling that our amendment was rejected just because we tabled it by the opposition, this time the Slovenian Democratic Party. That's not right, so we shouldn't be doing anything in the National Assembly. And when so much is said about handing out and about consistent and some transparent cooperation, but in such cases there is no such understanding by the coalition. That is why, as I have already said, we have once again tabled an amendment to Article 7, which brings such a solution that rules and criteria are adopted in the foundation's world and later confirmed by the National Assembly. This is the most transparent and also the most beneficial for athletes. Given that a very similar solution has also been adopted with the amendment, I do not think that the coalition with the support of this amendment should have any problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u31	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss Article 7 and the amendment to this Article? Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u32	Thank you very much. The proposal to delete Article 7 is only a continuation of what we have actually considered at the Committee's meeting when similar procedures have been proposed for all articles of the novel. This means that the amendment's proposer has now tried to open up a space for discussion on a matter for which it is perfectly clear in advance that they do not agree with the amendment of the law, which nevertheless attempts to regulate matters as agreed in the draft law with civil society representatives, I refer to the CNVOS, and as was the wish of the amendment's proponents to take decisions on the fundamental issues relating to sport into those who are actually engaged in sport and to reduce the field of policy in sport. Manever was, of course, fully recognized, even as to how the rules of the Sports Foundation suddenly came into play after they were adopted last April, and so far it has not been a real pleasure to hand over the rule. It is simply that this amendment to delete Article 7 cannot be supported. Everything that had to be said in the context of the amendment of the law took place at a meeting of the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u33	Thank you, too. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[Yeah.]] Mr. Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u34	Thank you very much. I am pleased that colleague Pučnik also recognized that in the debate itself we corrected this Article 7 so that the Olympic Committee is no longer the one who decides on these criteria, but that it is the world and then is confirmed in the National Assembly. This law on the property transformation of the Lottery of Slovenia, of course, is not the best. This has been pointed out both here in the National Assembly and in the debate itself, and I expect the Government to prepare a system law for both foundations. The government also confirmed this and agreed. However, the step forward is better because it separates the foundation from the ministry in which it is now, and it gives consideration to the civil sphere and those sports spheres. And that's right. That's what the KPK warned us about. This can be questionable, and that is why it is so much more acceptable to me. Of course, the composition of the foundation world can always be questionable and we can always talk about whether we are doubting people, whether they are doing the right thing or not. If there is too much of that doubt, then it always comes to the question whether something is corrupt or something is not corrupt. I'm sure I don't know what kind of legislation, I don't know what regulations, I don't know what criteria we can never stop corruption with. That's what people are for. And I am sure that when people are called people and people are called people into the foundation world, that it is necessary to pay attention and then those who decide to do so can, of course, choose the right people. And if anyone, then they're sports organizations; then they're the ones for whom these funds are intended. I will support this law in order to have the Ministry draw up a system law in due course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u35	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[Yeah.]] Mr. Jerovšek, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u36	Thank you very much. As we have already found, this article has changed that the absolute monopolistic criteria for the sharing of these funds would have been shared by the Olympic Committees, as unfortunately stated in the bill. It's important what the intent of this law is, how funds will be shared. The National Assembly has now made a slight correction in this area, including on the basis of the opinion of the Anti-Corruption Commission, which states that when the power and influence of decision-making is transferred to the hands of one association, even though the umbrella organisation, the proposal departs from the democratic principle, namely the fundamental constitutional principle enshrined in Article 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. But that's what it was all about. What comes into the National Assembly and here we have to ask what interests the Government protects when it brings such a bill to the National Assembly. Can we trust such a government? For we know that the Olympic Committees are many times paradisaic, especially in the field of sport, and that there are huge funds turning there. In these allocations of funds, exceptional lobbying is done, and even when these funds are allocated, people are usually dedicated, and that is exactly what they wanted to increase — intransparency, intransparency. Madam President of the Government is constantly talking about transparency, and its ministers are bringing to the National Assembly laws that are reducing this and that are actually promoting corruption, as well as the real corruption commission. I don't know how many things there are going to be in here that are going to be decided about money from one center from people who have been in these positions forever. And it's about corruption and nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u37	Thank you, too. Anybody else want to discuss this? First, I give my word to the government's representative. Sir, Secretary of State Alush Pertinac, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u38	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! First of all, a deep apology for being late, but thank you very much for your word. See, the Property Transformation Act of the Loteria Slovenije is certainly not a law that in some entirely new way regulates an area that has not been regulated so far. We all know that, and we don't have to lose words about it. At the same time, it is true that the law currently in force in practice is not feasible and is weak. Therefore, as a proposaler, the Government has proposed urgent changes to the existing law so that we can even distribute funds according to principles, as if I understand the opposition representatives correctly, they too want to distribute. It's not happening right now. For this moment it is not, and this is a key problem with the existing law. The amendments proposed have been improved in the process of adopting the law, which we welcome, and we believe that the solutions now written are the right ones to allow the law to operate in the coming period. To avoid the corruption risks that I believe we are all striving to avoid them or to avoid them, and to prepare a systemic solution in peace for both foundations. In addition, the draft law, as it is now, also provides for some uniform provisions which were previously not uniform in relation to both foundations, both the FIHO Foundation and the FIHO Foundation. With regard to the risk that the provisions proposed would increase the corruption risks, because, of course, I will say, one part of the decision-making is passed on to the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, I am sure that this fear is superfluous. See, several times it has already been highlighted, the Olympic Committee of Slovenia is the association of industry sports associations, which includes all sports associations in Slovenia, except two – one strives for membership – and is the widest event of civil society sports organisations. As you know, when this law was in the process of adoption, it also changed the statute of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, so that all sports associations that are members of the Olympic Committee now have a voting right in the Assembly. In short, the widest body of the widest variety of civil society sports organisations will decide on the purpose of these funds. I think that if we all really mean it when we talk about trying to return sport to the civil sphere and that we want to limit the influences of politics or eliminate them from sports, then we can only support such a solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u39	Thank you, too. He's got the word "mag." Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. See, deleting the articles of the proposed novel would preserve the old state, and the old state regulated things for two foundations which divides these funds from the Lottery of Slovenia in a different way, and I think this is unacceptable. If we refer to the opinion of the Anti-Corruption Commission, the Commission is called to prevent corruption, the main point of this Commission is that a new law must be created because the ownership transformation of the Lottery of Slovenia is over. However, it is not regulated and properly regulated in a comparable manner; it is said that there is equal management, decision-making and everything else in both foundations. It would therefore be right for both foundations to settle in a special law and I expect this to be settled in the future, even though I have not heard the opinion of the FIHA representative at the meeting of the committee, which said that all the articles of the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia have already been consummated, so to speak, they are already irrelevant and that this cannot be claimed. But we're always dealing with which body is the one that decides to distribute funds. We have also always advocated with FIHU the fact that the civil sphere should be the one that decides on these matters. If anyone has a problem with recognizing the Olympic Committee, associations of sports associations, like umbrella organizations in sports, that's his problem. But the fact is, it works in this association mostly, almost the entire sporting sphere. Once again, if anyone has a problem with it, it is impossible to help them as long as they have such great support in their sphere. Here, as it is said, it is also totally incomprehensible how the SDS, as well as that political party, who in the past also led the Ministry of Education, Sport, Science and so on, changing its views on this. In fact, the impact of policy on determining or deciding within the framework of the Sports Foundation has been fully politicised. I think that this solution is currently better to the extent that it allows at least the allocation of funds so that these funds, which unfortunately are already declining, are reduced by the flow of money from the Lottery of Slovenia and the need for sport is increasing, and we would also like to better co-finance sport according to sports achievements. It is therefore not possible to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u41	Thank you. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Slovenia has some really wonderful athletes and athletes, with Tina Maze this moment at the head, and already because of them and because of the strong achievements of Slovenian sport in the past and young hopes, which are very large, it is good to arrange this thing in the best possible way. But I must say, in doing so, at least we would owe these people one fair debate. It is very interesting, now that Mrs Potrata is clearly SDS politicalising sport, today we are discussing the amendment and the debate has been even more intense in the past because it was exclusively for the Olympic Committees, an amendment that indirectly touches the regime in which the Olympic Committee is located. And, of course, as always, we return to the beginning: what, in fact, is a fundamental problem in Slovenia – that transition failed. And Slovenia was divided into such small piles of manure, where a political roost was placed, and then it became known in some cases as a civil sphere, in some cases for independent, neutral, apolitical, professional institutions, and it seemed as if people who had once been in top political positions, of course their political beliefs, their political connections, their political influence and their political decision-making were not known, and that any other kind of speech was, of course, just making a fog. And in this case, as Murphy's marriage says, whatever they're telling you in politics, they're telling you about money. Why is the problem of sports so pressing in this case? Because it is a very large amount of money that can be directed in one way or another. If, in this case, we are talking about the impact of the Olympic Committee, of course, it is quite clear what this is really about – because the former President of the United List or the predecessor of the United Nations, Mr Janez Kocjančič, is at his head. So this is obviously a completely political figure, and when the word civil society is used in this regard, of course I start to laugh and every normal person starts to laugh. At least let's be honest about what this is all about. It is said that things need to be designed only by getting as close to the athletes as possible, given the situation which is unfortunately today as I believe it should not be. One former president of one party led by the Olympic Committee – sorry, it is not exactly what it would call depoliticisation of Slovenian sport, but quite the opposite. And then if there's any evidence coming from the same party on the other side, it's a tragic thing or it's that old trick again: attack is the best defense. For this reason, I believe that now the amendment is better than the original text at the meeting of the committee, and let the shame of the one who prepared that original text, of course the amendment offered by the SDS, make this text even better. As I said, it is the Slovenian athletes, and they are the reason why I will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr. Kavtičnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u44	Thank you very much. I see – that is not the problem with this amendment. The law in which we corrected this Article 7 deals quite well with the matter, so that there is no problem. I am also convinced that the SDS is not a problem, as it says, but today we have just opened and amended this Article 7 so that we can talk about this Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia. Look, we've been talking about sports lately in the National Assembly, and that's good. We will have one of the following points on the national programme and so on. We now have it under consideration and on the committee also a proposal for a law on bridging insurance for professional athletes and so on, so that we care about something here, in the National Sports Council. But that's all I want to tell you. If a party or a party is in dispute, it is not good to take credibility of the institution. This is not good, for then we point to the complete institution or to everyone covered by this institution. The Olympic Committees of Slovenia – The Association of Sports Unions, comprises more than 98% of all societies, all those involved in sports. And if we say that one person may be in dispute with another and that this institution sucks or corrupt and bad — that is not good. The same goes for the government. If someone, some individual minister in the government doesn't work well, it's important to say why it doesn't work and who doesn't work and it doesn't work, not the government. Because that's how they're building credibility for this country. The government is one, or another, or the third, when it comes, and if we speak through the government, there comes a belief among people that in general the government is bad, any one, even when yours comes, or ours, or any other third. And when we speak to Comrade Jerovšek, I respect you, and I am always silent when you speak, and please, if you can leave me to think. [[…]] That is why I tell you that it is not good when we speak like this, to walk and hit institutions and to put into a bad light a government, an institution or anyone because of some individuals whom, of course, someone respects them, appreciates them or does not appreciate them. That's right. It's just the way it is in life. Someone's closer to you, someone's not close to you, someone's thinking like you, someone's not like you, but they're not saying they're bad. I apologize for taking little advantage of this opportunity, as are others, that I have said more, but I will not support this amendment, because Article 7 already, as it is, contains all of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u45	Thank you. I give the floor to the Government, namely to the Secretary, Mr Aljuš Pertinac.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u46	Thank you very much again for your words, Mr President. I would just like to explain to the Chamber of State that the President of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, the association of sports associations, does not set up governments, even fewer political parties, but is elected in secret elections where every sports union that is a member of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, associations of sports associations, at least one vote, in accordance with the founding charter of the International Olympic Committee, has sports links, which are also Olympic, Olympic disciplines, slightly more votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u47	The word he wanted was mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u48	Thank you. If you say so, criticism diminishes the reputation of the institution. You know, it's a two-time awkward thing to say in Parliament. First of all, as far as the government's concerned. The government itself cares to lower its credibility. Yesterday, the President of the government in Parliament said that the VAT hike had by no means burdened the economy. This is for the Nobel Prize for Economics, you can look at the magnetogram if it is true, but if it is not true, we can only say that Slovenian entrepreneurship is extremely resilient, that with such a government it still survives. What's wrong with your whole debate is an old trick. If someone warns that some things are not as arranged as they should be, and I said that optimal regulation would be owed to Slovenian athletes, then it is not the one who draws attention to some problem, but the one who caused the problem. And when we come to this in this House, it will be quite a success.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u49	Thank you. I would just like to remind you that we are at Article 7, and Mr Kavtičnik, you have slightly expanded the debate in the previous debate and the answer has also come, so I would like to remind you to stay with the content of Article 7, which discusses the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled, Humanitarian and Sports Organisations and how we deal with funds from the surplus of expenditure. Mr. Kavtičnik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u50	Thank you very much. It's a good thing you tricked me a little, because I confessed and said that I had expanded the debate. However, they had extended the debate to colleagues Jerovšek and also to colleagues Grims, and I only referred to this debate and I confessed. And that's all right! And it's not a problem to show up and say something's not going in the right direction. I am always in favour of any criticism, but we must not put it into a bad light at that time and bring credibility to the entire institution. If there's someone, we know who it is, we know who's behind it and let's name it, it's got a name and a last name and it's people. Not to talk about an institution. Otherwise, the biggest problem with the lotteries of Slovenia or in this law and the allocation of funds is that every year less funds come into sport. We need to talk about this, so that there will be more resources from the Sports Lottery for the purpose of sport than it is now. Some 20% only comes from the title Sports Lottery for Sports. I am sure, and we should talk about this, that more resources should be made available. And this is the kind of substantive thinking and debate that we should have. And that we should also include those games that happen online, that do not participate in sports and the money from these games goes directly into the pockets of organizers or owners. We should talk about this, and that's the point of the problem. Once this is resolved, I am confident that we will also resolve all the anomalies that are happening today and that we are talking about in sports and in providing sufficient resources for sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek also wanted the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u52	Yes, because my colleague Kavtičnik mentioned me, but what a real problem to name, not something else. I myself have done just that, in my debate on this Article 7, I have said that the problem is that the Government wanted to make a non-transparent system with the draft law that allows corruption that would give all the power to the one who spends money to the Olympic Committee. The Anti-Corruption Commission and other institutions have also noted that power has been concentrated and corruption has been promoted. That's what the government did, and I mentioned it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u53	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss this article? Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I mentioned, for the first time, that it was, in fact, surprising that an amendment to Article 7 had been tabled, which was substantively, in terms of what the amendment's proposal was intended to achieve, and this is annihilation of the amendment of the law, which is completely empty. The debate now shows that the opinion of the Anti-Corruption Commission is being used to try to hang some of the desires that this proposal does not have. Once again, the core of the opinion of the anti-corruption commission is that a new law needs to be drawn up, which will also regulate the FIHO and the Sports Foundation, the Sport Foundation. This was on the board, and it was promised earlier that it would be done. What is still in this article, however, is in fact linked to the rules of the Sports Foundation. However, the manoeuvre that was carried out at the meeting of the Committee was such that a version of the rules of the Sports Foundation were offered for consideration, which would have been completely incompatible with the adopted novel, and which was, once again, from April of last year and has now emerged as a meteor. The National Assembly, however, confirms the rules of the Sport Foundation only in a structured version. It is said that the National Assembly has nothing to do with the rules and the possibility of adapting the proposed rules to the adopted law has been closed. That's the whole maneuver. Today we are talking about things that we have been through and for which the sports sphere finds that this solution is now good. The amendment cannot be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr Ljubo Žnidar also wanted the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u56	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members! I also believe that the proposal of the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia is not the best. Two days ago, I was discussing the anti-corruption commission because I was wondering if we needed an institution like that. And I would say that from day to day I get confirmation that this was my thinking very much in place, because this is a good example, where it is seen that the actual opinion of the anti-corruption commission is not taken into account at all and then the question is really whether we need an institution at all. Otherwise, dear colleagues, the proposed amendment to the law, I am not jealous at all that you have summarized our proposal and put it into law on the parental committee already amended. I'm not jealous of anything, if that's what this is, I'd say, your complementary proposal. I am pleased that we, as the opposition, are warning, making comments and suggestions that things will improve legally. But I am not burdened by whether it is our opposition party or whether it is a coalition party. It's important to me that marriage is good. This is what you have seen on the Committee, our proposals have been taken into account, and this has also improved the proposal itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u57	Thank you. I understand that Secretary of State Alush Pertinac would like to discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Very briefly, if you'll allow me not to remain unanswered. Of course, it does not argue that the draft law does not take into account the Commission's opinion on preventing corruption. A large majority of their opinions are taken into account in the draft law, except in this part, which has already been pointed out that a system law should be drawn up to regulate the area and functioning of both foundations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u59	I'm guessing there's no word for it right now. I conclude the debate on Article 7. I am putting to the debate Article 14 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. Before we completely end this point, the Secretary of State has warned me that he also wishes to express his will regarding the procedure for the adoption of the law. You have the floor, Mr. Alush Pertinac.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. Since the amendment adopted in the second reading covers less than a tenth of the articles of the draft law, the Government proposes that, in accordance with Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, a third party be considered at this meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u61	Thank you, too. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of agenda item 2.a. This concludes this agenda item. We move on to the 2nd A-point of the day, that's a defensively proposed law on the property tax according to the emergency procedure. With regard to this point, two draft laws were tabled in the legislative procedure, namely the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Real Estate Tax Act, the First Review, EPA 1795-VI, which is proposed by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank, and the Proposal for a Law amending the Real Estate Tax Act, the Urgent Procedure, EPA 1857-VI, of which the Government is the proposer. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy decided, in its debate on those proposals, to deal with them in accordance with Article 117, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, at the same time decided that a follow-up procedure in accordance with Article 127 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly would lead them on the basis of a proposal for a law submitted to the National Assembly by the Government under urgent procedure. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 117 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I give the floor to the applicants of both proposals for supplementary explanations. I give my word to a representative of the Magnificent Government. Matei Vraničnik, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! With the amendment to the Real Estate Tax Act, we want to make two major changes that the Government considers necessary to adopt as soon as possible, thereby ensuring clear information and legal certainty for the property tax debtors. With the first amendment, we want to equalize the burden of all residential properties by deleting the tax rate of 0,5 % for non-residential residential properties in Article 6 and establishing that a single tax rate of 0,15 % applies to all residential properties. In doing so, the criteria for determining the non-residential status of dwellings are also deleted from the law, which is the requirement of permanent residence or placing on a market or non-profit lease. Change also requires some other editorial harmonisation. In this way, the Government implements the commitment to abolish the various tax rates for residential property, as it has been shown by the information calculation of the tax that the division into residential and non-residential real estate causes difficulties in understanding and encourages those who are committed to a number of changes in real and property relations. However, the second substantive amendment affects Articles 27 and 28 of the Law, i.e. during the transitional period of the first tax dose in 2014. The notifications by the Geodetics Administration with informational calculations resulted in a mass response from owners and prospective taxpayers who wish to correct or reconcile the data in the real estate register with the actual situation. With a view to enabling all property owners who so wish or believe that this is necessary to correct their real estate data, the Government proposes that the 27th Article deadline for regulating data, which would otherwise have expired on 31 March, be extended by one month, that is until 30 April. Consequently, the time limit for issuing a decision should also be extended in Article 28, which is to be extended to 15 July 2014 and to the time limits for the payment of the tax by hand. The deadlines continue to allow all taxpayers to pay their taxes in 2014 in two to a maximum of four instalments and the deadlines expire at the end of September, October, November or end of December 2014. Equalisation of the tax rate for residential property will result in lower tax revenues for the country than planned, which is estimated to mean around EUR 20 million in 2014. However, the first assessment of the Geodetics Authority indicates a greater overall tax base than that taken into account by the Government in the analysis of the law, and it is therefore estimated that the originally planned amount of tax revenues of EUR 368 million is still realistic. The proposed amendment to the municipalities in 2014 to 2016 will not affect the volume of their revenues, as the amount of the compensation for the use of building land for 2012 is guaranteed in accordance with the law of the municipalities in those years. The Government considers that it is necessary to implement the proposed amendments as soon as possible and preferably before the deadlines laid down by the basic law have expired and has therefore proposed the adoption of legislation by emergency procedure. However, the Government is also planning to make any necessary response to the Constitutional Court's decision and to make changes to the law in this case in such a way that these changes can be taken into account in the issue of dosing decisions for this year. So, if necessary, the government will prepare another amendment to the law. With regard to the amendment of the law that I have explained, I propose that the National Assembly approve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u63	Thank you, too. I now give the floor to the representative of the proposal for the draft law of the Magi. To Andre Shirtzle.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! One morning two months ago, three, we passed the Real Estate Tax Act. After an all-night debate, the Slovenian Democratic Party obstructed this law because it is harmful; it is harmful to entrepreneurs, harmful to farmers, harmful to citizens and citizens. At that time, we have pointed out the essential weaknesses that this law brings, that is insufficient legal certainty, that is the failure of local government to act because it does not have money, that is, of course, a non-transparent procedure, excessive taxation mainly of entrepreneurs, farmers and, lastly, the actions of taxpayers due to harmful provisions where resident property is taxed at one rate and non-resident at the other level. As a result, people lost a lot of time and money to regulate their legal status because of the solutions sent by the Government of Alenka Bratušek to the National Assembly. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have assessed that although the law has been adopted in an inappropriate way, we are trying to correct certain provisions, in particular those relating to the legal protection of taxpayers, so we have proposed in the proposal for a law that the tax base can also be determined by appreciation. And secondly, we have proposed that agriculture and entrepreneurship be exempt from property tax. The government of Alenka Bratušek also proposed its law, but that was when a public debate was already held in the Constitutional Court, while the Slovenian Democratic Party tried to correct it very soon after the adoption of this law. A so-called hybrid or merger of both laws was proposed on the Finance Committee, where amendments or solutions of the Slovenian Democratic Party were voted on by the coalition. In addition, the decision of the Constitutional Court is tomorrow; tomorrow the decision of the Constitutional Court on this law is announced, and in the Slovenian Democratic Party we consider it inappropriate to adopt this law today before the decision. There will be legal and legal chaos. The National Assembly thus lets the Constitutional Court know that it does not respect it because it does not wait for a solution and a decision to be taken. At the same time, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already announced new amendments to the law if the Constitutional Court may repeal any provision. And, ladies and gentlemen, the certainty of the taxpayers is minimal. Security and transparency are concepts that are foreign to this law. This law is adopted despite the warnings of the profession, despite the warnings of entrepreneurs, farmers, despite the fact that it was made, according to the Government, 400 000 corrections of several million data. Four hundred thousand repairs! Does this also mean that 400,000 taxpayers had the wrong information and got the wrong information calculation in any part of this calculation? Which means that the operational government is not ready, even if these mistakes were half less, and people are actually losing their dignity to the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia, and they do not have legal certainty. This law creates anarchy in the real estate sector, and this is why we have obstructed the decision or decision on this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u65	Thank you, too. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to President Bojan Starman to present the report of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u66	Thank you so much for your words, Mr. President, and a nice greeting to everyone! At its 87th urgent meeting on 24 March 2014, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, on the basis of the third and in conjunction with the first and second paragraphs of Article 117, and Article 127 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, under the same item of the agenda, considered two draft laws as the working body. That is, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Real Estate Tax Act [[EPA 1795-VI]] SDS members' groups with first-signed Jozet Tank and the proposal for a law amending the Real Estate Tax Act [[EPA 1857-VI]] submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration. We have received the opinion of the Government, the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council, the letter of the Community of Social Institutions of Slovenia and the amendments of the Coalition's parliamentary groups to Articles 1 and 7. In the context of the debate on whether the committee will deal with both laws under the same agenda item, Members and Members of the opposition parliamentary groups objected to the amendment of the applicable real estate tax law before issuing a decision of the Constitutional Court on the procedures still under way with regard to the law in force. There was also opposition to the adoption of the proposal for a law amending the Real Estate Tax Act following an urgent procedure. The negative consequences of the proposed solutions for the Slovenian economy were noted. On the basis of that proposal, the same social relationship is governed by the law and the Committee has therefore adopted, pursuant to Article 117(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy at the same meeting under the same point shall examine both laws. Following the adoption of that decision, the representatives of the two proposed laws presented the purpose and content of the solutions to the two proposed laws, which we had previously heard from the applicants, in the context of the supplementary explanations to the article. On the basis of Rule 127 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee decided that the amended proposal should be prepared on the basis of a proposal for a law amending the Real Estate Tax Act, an urgent procedure, [[EPA 1857-VI]] submitted by the Government for its consideration. In the course of the discussion, we have also decided on a decision to include none of the articles of the proposed law amending the Real Estate Tax Act in the draft law. [[EPA 1794-VI]] a group of Members and Members of the SDS with first-signed Jožet Tank. When we voted on this decision, the members and members of the SDS, SLS and Nova Slovenije parliamentary groups announced obstruction and left the meeting in accordance with Article 65 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In the light of the decisions previously adopted pursuant to Articles 117 and 127 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the Committee held a second reading of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on real estate tax, an urgent procedure, [[EPA 1857-VI]] proposed by the Government to the National Assembly. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has also considered and adopted amendments to Articles 1 and 7. Finally, the Committee voted on all the articles together and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended Act, which includes the amendment adopted, is prepared on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the amended proposal is an integral part of this report. Furthermore, the Committee, as has already been said, has also decided that the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes that the agenda of the 23rd meeting of the National Assembly be extended by the following item of the agenda: Proposal for a Law amending the Real Estate Tax Act, urgent procedure [[EPA 1857-VI]] . It also concluded that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Real Estate Tax Act by Members and Members is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u67	Thank you, too, for the report. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Marko Pavlisič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr President, a respected secretary of state with co-workers, a respected colleague, a respected colleague! The new law brings two significant changes; the first is the equalisation of the taxation of residential and non-residential properties. At this point, we have clearly seen what happens if we give the advantage of ideological justice over the practicality of performance. In practice, this has been shown by the fact that people have begun to regulate their ministry in a mass way just to avoid tax. Transfers of permanent residence began, although there was no real basis for this, and false leases with a view to tax avoidance began to be concluded. Such solutions are not appropriate, so it is right to change them. The second amendment introduced by this amendment to the law is, however, the time limit by which such data can be regulated. And it is precisely this change that is the reason why this novelty should be rushed before the Constitutional Court's decision on this subject. In fact, the deadline in the present law is set at the end of this month, and if the Constitutional Court decides tomorrow that more changes are needed, then after this period they would be in a time hole where people would not know whether they could still regulate this data or not. In the Civil Gazette, we will support the proposal for a new law. This is the first amendment to this law, but a few changes related, are also foreseen in the already proposed Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate, which we will also deal with in a short time. We will also listen to the Constitutional Court's opinion in the Civil Gazette tomorrow, and we will take its decision seriously and unconditionally respect it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr Franz Bogovic will present the position of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u70	Good afternoon, President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the Ministry of Finance! In the introduction, let me immediately say that in the Slovenian People's Party we agree with the two intentions of the law which are now on the agenda; it is said that the taxation of non-resident and residential housing is equivalent. We tried to arrange this at that famous night session when it was time for this, with the amendment, but unfortunately for the coalition, the government did not accept it. After what happened was exactly what we predicted that people would be making new costs in order to virtually disable the normal work of the Geodetic Authority, the coalition is now bringing this proposal before us into the National Assembly. We also agree that the deadlines are abnormal, and therefore we think that they are abnormal for significantly more than you predict in this novel, and that this law should be, as it is supposed to be a system law, adopted in such a way as to be enforced first by 1. 1. 2016 and in order for both citizens and citizens, our authorities, such as the Geodetic Authority, to take the appropriate time to regulate records in order to regulate matters and to adopt this law in a dignified manner. However, no dignity, dignity has been taken into account in this law so far, and, for my understanding, the coalition, together with the government in this law, has failed completely on the maturity test and this foolishness, which is reflected in the arrogance of the government, the arrogance of the coalition, which was first expressed to the opposition, as with other things, has been shown below that this arrogance has also been to the professional public, the arrogance of the constitutional experts, the arrogance of the people who are with the 80,000 signatures under the petition, which we have gathered at that time, has made clear what they think about this law, the arrogance of the craftsmen, the unemployed, virtually to Slovenia. The hateful attitude towards local self-government appears, and simply the coalition with these things continues. The constitutional profession has pointed out the unconstitutionality of this law. By the beginning of the year, the law had already been made available as soon as it entered into force, six requests for constitutional review, both by the municipalities, the State Council, craftsmen and political parties. The Constitutional Court has seen very responsibly that this is a very big problem, it has already issued a decision on the retention of the law in one part in February, it has allowed in practice seen what you have actually accepted in the coalition, that the Geodetic Authority has divided these reasonable calculations and that it has actually seen what this law means in practice. Unfortunately, those who were able to predict this were not heard at first when the time was right. In the last week, we see that the Ombudsman has also joined these six constitutional requirements. The Constitutional Court continues to act responsibly in this area and invites us to its premises tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. to give an oral presentation of the Constitutional Court's decision on this law. We know all that. If, on Monday, when they had only this information on the Committee on Finance to present the decision by the end of the month, the Constitutional Court had yesterday, colleagues and colleagues, when we were adopting the agenda, this information, that is, tomorrow at 11:30, this decision. I have once again appealed to reason, to a dignified attitude and a dignified attitude of the National Assembly to the Constitutional Court, to wait for this highest instance of the State to be heard – we will certainly take it into account, Mr Pavlišič, because we have to take it into account in such a law; and this is not our will or our trouble, but it is our task – and that after tomorrow, when we have a decision by the Constitutional Court in our hands, we will decide responsibly how to proceed. I still believe and hope that the Constitutional Court will recognize in a number of elements of unconstitutionality enough reasons for this law to be held back, that, above all, those who insist on it will finally be sobered and that we stand together and prepare a quality law, give it time, make it a European, not one that has the only and simple goal of filling a hole in the state budget. In the Slovenian People's Party we oppose this procedure because it is not worthy of the Parliament of the Republic of Slovenia. With the solutions that remained in the marriage, as I said in the introduction, we certainly agree, for we warned you about them when the time was right.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u71	Thank you. Mrs Marija Plevčak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u72	Thank you for your word and once again a nice greeting to everyone! The fact is that the new system law in the area of property taxation was adopted too quickly, without comprehensive analysis and on the basis of uncoordinated public records and unregulated real estate conditions in our country. This has been repeated throughout the Democratic Party of Pensioners' Group, and our claim confirms the requests submitted to the Constitutional Court, the immediate amendment of the basic law and, crucially, the responses of people waiting in line for a deadline at the Geodetic Authority. The government itself admitted this mistake. This novel represents an attempt to mitigate all these mistakes. The correction of the tax rate for residential and non-residential dwellings to 0,15 % and the departure of the time limit for the repair of real estate data was already sought in the amendment to the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estates. On the basis of the extremely negative opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, there was no vote on such an amendment. Let us mention here that in the Group of Members, we fully agree with the conduct of the Chairman of the Committee. However, as regards the equivalence of the taxation of residential and non-residential dwellings, we have also discussed in our parliamentary group in the direction that this distinction in tax rates is the only instrument for taxation of luxury which is now covered by the law in force. Why? Simple. People who own multiple apartments live in one and rent the other. This means that they have an additional income from this property, whether declared or not, which means that they have additional livelihoods and do not fall so quickly into the risk group of those who barely survive in a month. On the other hand, there are people who, if they already do — some who do not have one — and that is extremely worrying — just one apartment they live in. And no extra income. Of course, this does not make the situation worse, their housing will be taxed in the same way, but we are still asked whether this equalisation of taxation or a reduction in the rate of taxation for the second, third, fourth and more dwellings puts capital at the forefront and that of persons with more assets. However, in the Group of Members of the Democratic Party, we will not oppose this proposal. Due to all these imprecisenesses, anomalies and errors, however, it could only suggest that this tax should be introduced later when the records are complete and uniform. By the way, let's wait for tomorrow's decision of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u73	Thank you. The presentation of the New Slovenia Group will follow. Mr. Joseph Horvath will hand it over.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary of State with co-workers, dear colleagues and colleagues! There have been so many discussions about this unfortunate Real Estate Tax Act, so I will start with the Slovenian negotiations myself. In fact, they say the night has its power. Indeed, between 14th and 15th November 2013 she had tremendous, regrettably, negative power for Slovenian citizens and citizens. At that time we discussed, and the coalition passed the Real Estate Tax Act, which is not worth that name today. It's not the law, it's a fiscal property tax. In the introduction, I cannot avoid criticism at the expense of the way in which the government novelty of the real estate tax law is adopted. Let me remind you, the Constitutional Court has informed the National Assembly and, of course, the Slovenian public that the judgment on the constitutionality of the Real Estate Tax Act, which has been tabled as many as six initiatives for constitutional review, will be delivered orally tomorrow, 28 March 2014. It will be clear from this assessment of the Constitutional Court whether and to what extent interventions will be necessary in the current Real Estate Tax Act. What is the purpose of the amendment to the Real Estate Tax Act one day before the sentence of the Constitutional Court on the constitutionality of the law in its entirety and in its individual parts? This government haste by addressing the amendment of this law, which is adopted by emergency procedure, according to the Christian Democrats of New Slovenia, is extremely incomprehensible and irrational. Christian Democrats do not support the content of the proposed innovations brought up today by the proposal for a law amending the Real Estate Tax Act, and will bear additional undesirable and negative effects due to a lack of deliberate solutions. The main novelty of this law is the elimination of the distinction between residential and non-residential housing properties and the introduction of a single 0.15% tax rate for all residential properties. The second novelty is an extension of the deadline for recording for one month, which is until 30 April of this year. The only reason to close the difference between the tax rates on residential property residence is the non-regulation of the records and, in fact, the Government's fire-fighting measure, so that the tax on real estate can be applied as early as this year. At the same time, the government ignores the fact that taxes must have other functions besides fiscal ones, including stimulating ones. We note that by abolishing the increase in the tax rate for empty real estate, it is encouraged to issue real estate on the grey market. By this measure, the Government is in fact acting in the opposite direction, such as the prevention of the grey economy. It also encourages banks that own many empty properties to continue to maintain such a situation, as they are not encouraged by a low tax rate to handle them economically, either for sale or for rent. Finally, the single tax rate for all residential properties does not mean a fair distribution of tax burdens between all layers, or, in other words, the amendment reduces the tax burden on larger layers owned by multiple real estates, which are generally superstandard or luxury. Today's proposal for the amendment reduces the tax burden, not just by a few percent, but by more than 300%. The tax burden on richer citizens, at least we hope, was not the goal of the Government in changing the Real Estate Tax Act. A one-month extension of the deadline for the regulation of real estate records is, in our view, too short a time for all necessary corrections in existing records and would require a period of several months for these corrections. Members of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats for these reasons The proposal for a law amending the Real Estate Tax Act will not be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u75	Thank you. Ms Aleksandra Osterman will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. All in attendance, all in attendance! The real estate tax itself has already been much said and even more written. I hope we all know why this marriage was necessary. The reasons have not changed to this day. On the one hand, there was a long-standing desire to unify the taxation of property in the whole territory of Slovenia, i.e. to unify, by no means introduce a new one that to date unknown tax. On the other hand, there was a need for public financial income, which we decided should be contributed by those who actually have assets; and property is property, although small, is property. Further, in the spirit of so - called righteousness, we wanted those with more to contribute more. In the coalition, we took a decision on the different taxation of residential and non-residential residential properties. All of us are familiar with the events of the last few months, when the commitment to mass regulation and changing really legal relations began. We have witnessed a great increase in privileges, and there have been changes in permanent and temporary titles, including the separation of property. Certainly the consequences that the Government did not want and the consequences that could lead to many more problems in the future for those same debtors. The Government’s decision to equalize the rate of taxation for residential and non-residential residential properties was therefore logical, expected and also forecasted. The GURS also increased the volume of activities where people regulated, checked and corrected data on the status of their properties. The scope of these activities was so large that it was impossible to expect GURS to manage all data by the end of March 2014. The Act thus proposes the extension of the period by which all real estate owners shall be allowed sufficient time to verify and correct the data, which is until 1 May 2014. This amendment also calls for a period of one and a half months to be extended for the issue of dosing decisions to be sent by DURS in the year in mid-June 2014. Of course, it is precisely because of this change that it is necessary to extend the deadlines for paying the tax in 2014. Let me mention that DURS, regardless of when changes to the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estates and the Real Estate Tax Act will be in force, from 14 April 2014 on the real estate register shows data for land for building buildings that they are as valuable as unbuilt building plots. So the rate is 0.15%, and this is for this year. In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia we will definitely support the law on amendments and additions to the Real Estate Tax Act by emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u77	Ms Romana Tomc will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u78	Thank you very much for your words, distinguished president, colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group has opposed the introduction of the Real Estate Tax Act from the outset. In our view, this law, which the government and the coalition believe to be a system law, has no other motive than to fill our poor budget with 200 million euros. This was also clearly evident from the adoption process itself. In fact, let me mention that the President of the Government has even bound her confidant to this bill, which is linked to the bill. So this is not a system law that aims to regulate the area, because if that were the case, then a transitional period would be allowed for people to regulate their real estate data. The wrong motive that led to the adoption of this law has, of course, led to the situation that we have today: perfect chaos in this area, species before the GURS offices and, of course, a lot of the financial consequences that people have suffered, they want to correct their data. Despite what we read in the newspapers, what we see ourselves, the government persistently denies anything wrong in this area. However, perhaps something is wrong, something is very wrong if there are six constitutional requirements in the Constitutional Court and if the Government is alone today, when it proposes changes, it is already predicting new changes. These amendments, which are supposed to amend the existing law and which we have on the table today, are also opposed by the fact that we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party our amendments to this law, which have mainly gone towards reducing the burden on the economy. Economists have very strongly pointed out that their burden with real estate taxes is greatly increased. We listened to them and proposed appropriate changes. With some legal-formal, otherwise correct, but controversial hybrid procedure in the home law, the government or coalition has drawn up a law that is supposed to combine solutions from both laws; from theirs and from ours. But you won't believe none of our solutions are in this hybrid! Therefore, of course, this is the basic reason, in addition to the fact that we are constantly opposed to this law because it is unfair, non-systematic, the reason, of course, is that none of the opposition's proposals has been taken into account. We expect substantial changes to take place in this area. We do not object to the taxation of property. We know that we need to settle this area, and we know that this is a difficult task that takes time. Appropriate analyses should be made, time should be allowed for people to arrange their records and, of course, it is necessary to listen to those who are directly concerned with the tax, what they think about it and what they point out. This was precisely the reason, and we are still trying to do so, including with the appropriate amendment, to reduce the obligation on the Slovenian economy and to reduce the extreme high rate of property taxation that serves business and industrial purposes. Indeed, for an unexplained reason, and we see no reason to distinguish that on the other hand, energy properties, those in the energy sector, are taxed almost half as low as the rest of the economy. Our proposal is, of course, going in the direction that the economy, which is in a very difficult situation, is burdened. At the same time, we expect that the law will ensure, once we have reached the system law, a much better legal certainty for all those who are in debt, because the one we have before us today and the changes do not guarantee any legal certainty for those who are bound by it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The position of the Socialist Group of Members will be presented by Mr Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u80	Respected and respected! It is necessary to take measures in this country; measures must be taken to stabilise the country, implement commitments after fiscal consolidation, awaken and strengthen economic growth and start a new cycle of employment. Anyone who thinks it's possible to get on this path by taking measures that everyone's going to applaud is going to take a deep path. In last year, Slovenia owed 7% of its debt a year ago. This is the psychological limit when, in fact, access to international financial resources is no longer available to the country and is left only to speculative capital. Today, the Republic of Slovenia owes 4% on international markets. Thus, some progress has been made during this period; in increasing the credibility of the State and in the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has shown that the adoption of measures increases the responsibility that the State will be able to pay its obligations. This reduces Slovenia's debt return today. The Real Estate Tax Act was one stone in this respect, but was extremely important in the context of the measures proposed by the Government and adopted by the National Assembly. Let us recall that the Real Estate Tax Act was a de facto part of the budget package and that we Social Democrats, although we had a number of concerns about the law in the whole process from public treatment to coalition coordination and, last but not least, parliamentary procedures. Some of these concerns, in fact, are also included in initiatives to assess constitutionality. Let me remind you what those reservations were. The purpose of the tax – we have also agreed that this tax must be wholly intended for local communities. We believed that the tax burdens were too high. In doing so, they were also particularly committed to reducing the burden of the economy, together with two other coalition parties, but in the end it was necessary to resolve the fiscal gap. Compromises were also accepted in this respect. We have proposed the division of housing properties into residential and non-residential property, but it was not our intention to end up with the implementation of the law, but the fact that we have 175 000 empty apartments in this country and we wanted to contribute, in fact, through a tax policy measure, to promote the legalisation of the leases. If it is not the legalisation of the leases, in fact, the fact that the owners place their empty apartments on the market; the market at a price that the market brings across between supply and demand. Today, I am pleased that some colleagues are praising this solution and calling themselves the biggest advocates of progressive taxes, but at the same time it is necessary to find that human ingenuity does not know borders and that people have made massive changes in the formal status of their assets in order to avoid higher tax burdens. But let us not forget that one of the key problems in this country is that we have overburdened active income and underburdened passive income or property. The real estate tax law should be an important shift in this direction, so that where we are really uncompetitive – and this is a cost-effective, tax burden on work – we can do more in the perspective and put ourselves on the side of more competitive jobs in the world war. Respected and respected! The Constitutional Court will present its decision to the public tomorrow. We will, of course, respect the decision, in the meantime try to reform the law by being operational as quickly as possible. Otherwise, if the Constitutional Court were to decide to repeal the law in its entirety, it would, of course, have to look for other alternative solutions in order to consolidate public finances and contribute to Slovenia's continuation of the path to recovery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u81	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. As the first or only one currently put to the debate, I am putting Article 1 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. I'm asking you to sign up, and I'm just gonna open the door for you to sign up. We currently have three panellists reported. The first one is Mrs. Romana Tomc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Allow me to introduce our amendment, which we have tabled in order to try to help the economy. You have been able to see in the media, or every day, how economicists point out that the tax burden imposed on them by the real estate tax is extremely harmful to their business. Even so, their business conditions will deteriorate, so they have been calling on the government to lower the tax rate on business facilities all the time. However, despite all the predictions and despite the many words that are always in stock with government representatives, Mrs Alenka Bratušek has listened to all those who need to listen, and despite some estimates that the average burden of the economy will not increase, we have also heard that when the President of the Government spoke to five entrepreneurs or large businesses, their directors, members or heads of administrations, they have all said that the burden will be lower for them. But small entrepreneurs think it's completely different. They must be right in some way, because, look, if it would imply that the burden is lower for all – how will you collect 200 million euros from this tax if everyone pays less? It just doesn't work out. It's a simple deceiving. Perhaps someone will pay less, I am sure that they will pay less large stores, large shopping centres, but they will pay for this account those we tell them are the population of businesses and entrepreneurs that need to be encouraged and on which Slovenia builds its future. These are small and medium-sized enterprises. 98% of companies in Slovenia belong to the category of small and medium-sized enterprises. There's 100,000 of them. They employ a number of workers who are thus part of the family circle, saying that they support themselves much more than themselves. All of these are further burdened by this tax, and all of these have appealed to the government to relieve them, but in no way have they been heard in anything. In doing so again, because I am always reminding you why the applicant has separated tax rates for business facilities, I will say, of general nature, and of those owned by energy. Why?Oh, my God! If I recall any explanation given by the government representatives, it went in the direction, you know that the energy facilities are very large and then we would pay very much tax here. Yes, of course! This is where the biggest profits are made! In short, distinction is unnecessary and unfair. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, however, we can listen to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, just as our policy is in the direction of decommissioning tax reliefs, investment reliefs. We advocate that economic growth will bring tax cuts, not tax hikes. Of course, we also propose with our amendment that the rates for business facilities – but because the Government has warned us that we cannot separate small, medium and large ones, but for all, that is, for the entire Slovenian economy, the rates for business facilities should be reduced.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr Jakob Presječnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u84	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Madam Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! My fellow Members and I have never claimed that the Real Estate Tax Act does not need to be adopted; it eventually replaces certain laws which provide for a similar property tax. However, we have always stressed, personally, that records should first be regulated, but we have already said this when the law was adopted that records should be regulated and a clever, intelligent law should be drawn up on the basis of regulated records that would not be unfair to individual categories. However, I do have some comments on the opinions of the parliamentary groups. Otherwise, I agree that the desire of the law or the motive of the law is to fill the budget. So all tax laws are going in this direction, but this budget charge must be fair for all taxpayers. It is a matter of concern that the President of the Government has received a confidant with the law that has caused, in my firm belief, the confusion of the decade, after all the geodetic administrations, the administrative units, the land books, the land book and so on. As long as we do not have these records drawn up, and secondly, of course, what was clearly evident from some of the opinions of the sent groups until we have a decision by the Constitutional Court, and this will be in one day, it is completely pointless that we are taking any changes. Otherwise, I will support the amendment tabled by my colleagues from the SDS Group, although I claim that this is a minor change and that the law with individual amendments, individual minor adjustments, is simply not possible to make one that will be the right one, which will be useful, which will be fair. At the time of presentation of the opinion of the parliamentary group, one of the colleagues said that there had been an unnecessary change in permanent residences and unnecessary entry of personal services. Yes, at the meeting of the National Assembly at that time, I said that Slovenia would be a country with a world record of at least officially separated lives of spouses or partners living together. So they're officially separated. These changes in applications for permanent residence are enormous, but I do not agree that this has been unnecessary for some, as they have certainly reduced the tax for many families, who barely go from month to month. Of course, I agree that luxury should be taxed, but these residential and non-residential apartments are not luxury. It is simply that many things, unfortunately, we have not been regulated and therefore it would be necessary to give a moratorium on the implementation of this law, this time to introduce a compensation for the use of building land and all those laws that have been in force so far and which we have passed with this law, and then, with a refined text, to come with regulated records by law to the National Assembly and such adopted. I am aware that any one would no longer be popular, but at least it would be fair to the vast majority of citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sonja Ramshak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u86	Thank you very much, distinguished Vice-President, State Secretary with co-workers, Members and Members! It is sad that the ruling coalition, together with the prime minister in essence of Slovenia, has greatly hooked its knees with debt and new taxes, and you are actually putting the entire Slovenian economy on its knees with a property tax. I certainly support the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party, because we believe that if anything, then Slovenia can bring from the crisis the development of the economy and the opening of new jobs with added value. However, it is not a way of charging them with a property tax, since 0.75 per cent of the property tax for business premises of economic operators means that their costs will increase by 2.5 times. I am sorry that there are also some entrepreneurs in this Chamber who know very well what this means for businesses and that, nevertheless, you are defending the solutions that you have already adopted at the time of the amendment of the law and that you are not now supporting the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, where we propose not to tax the agricultural building, business, energy and industrial property, but in particular that the pensioner's party or the democratic pensioner's party does not support the reduction of homes for the elderly. When you need to speak on the phone, of course, you speak one thing and you do the other. You're going to press the keys and you know what it means that homes for older people are taxed at 0.5 percent rate? [[…]] This means that all those in nursing homes will pay this price very dearly. So the owners, this is the country, and the individuals who have the concession to carry out this activity will, of course, exceed the full burden of this tax on the users of these services. I appeal to all of you, Members of Parliament and Members to reconsider very carefully and when you vote on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party to support this amendment. Of course, I believe that the Constitutional Court will make a decision on Friday, which will also lay some other foundations, and I regret that today we are adopting this amendment of the law, where you are protecting actually those more wealthy, protecting capital, while citizens and citizens who are barely spending a day or a month, of course you are not listening to them and you are not listening to them. When you talk about some discussing that it is right that residential and non-residential real estate are charged with 0.15, of course you forget that many of those richer Slovenians have more than 10 or even 20 properties and that you are not able to collect taxes where the property is. But you take it where there's no property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The representative of the Government of the Masters of Matej Vraničar also took the floor. Here you go, Mrs. Vrančnik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to explain the consequences of the proposed amendment, but let me start by saying that real estate tax is a property tax and if there is no property, there can be no tax. Thus, first of all, it must be assets and we are talking about tax rates of 0.15 or 0.75% of the value of assets. The consequences of the proposed amendment, which constitute exemption from taxes on agricultural buildings, commercial, energy, industrial buildings and buildings used for the supply of older persons, as well as land, agricultural and forestry land and land for commercial and industrial use and land for energy purposes, amount to a tax drop of between EUR 175 million and EUR 180 million. This represents a deficit for the state budget during the transitional period, but this is a proposed systemic provision and this systemic provision amounts to a drop of EUR 120 million for municipal budgets. Of these properties, up to last year or 2012, data were used for 2012, and 120 million taxes were taxed in municipal budgets. This means essentially jeopardising the budgets of local communities after the transition period. The reasons for the amendment were that the law in force supports only capital, but if we look at the proposed amendment, it means that the full burden of the tax, as far as it remains under the amendment, is passed on to individuals and to non-economic activities. For an unexplained reason, the taxation of other buildings exempts them exclusively and only property for the care of older people. All other immovable property used for various non-economic or social activities shall remain encumbered. I do not understand, in essence, the difference in the amount of the burden or in the exemption and the burden on the other hand. As far as luxury is concerned, let me draw attention to the current fourth paragraph, which will become after the new third paragraph, and the real estate, the higher value of housing is charged with an additional increase in the tax rate. Finally, I would also like to respond to the claim that, according to the Government, all economic operators should pay less tax, we have never claimed that. We argued that, on average, taxes on business and industrial property are maintained at the level that we knew with compensation for the use of building land. However, the fact is that after the system has been established, the differences between municipalities are considerable, and therefore economic operators within individual municipalities can be significantly less burdened than they have been before or even more. The same is true when we compare different congregations with one another. With regard to energy properties, it has also been repeatedly pointed out in the regular legislative treatment that this is the same principle as in other commercial and industrial real estates, to maintain the burden of approximately the level they knew after the compensation for the use of building land, and should also be taken into account in energy real estates that they pay other property taxes in connection with the use of natural resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Since I've seen the desire after the debate, I'll open the next round and ask you to sign up. Check-in is on. We have 10 panellists registered. The first one is Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u90	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for an amendment to the Real Estate Tax Act by the Slovenian Democratic Party is a strong support for the economy. In this space we hear many times that it is necessary to start an economy, to create new jobs. This is a lot of nice words, but actions in practice, in the economy of this economy, do not feel. However, our amendment is indeed a concrete example and support for the economy to get the economy the momentum it absolutely needs at this moment. If I exclude it, it is actually a tax where the tax is completely exempt to those economic institutions that actually produce and fill our budget both for the agricultural sector, because agriculture is also a very important economic sector, and, of course, for all the commercial, industrial properties, there are also properties added, homes for the elderly. These properties are also covered here, which are completely exempt, and the main ones, which are in the economy, are the small and medium-sized enterprises that are most hit or most burdened in the government proposal. These are, in our proposal, completely absolved. Also for the land itself, where the land is concerned, in short, for habitable land, which is charged with 0.5% for building buildings, and here all agricultural land, including forest land and land, are exempt for the purposes of the economy. This is said, for business, industrial construction, for the construction of various energy facilities, in short, for the whole segment of economic support. This is a concrete measure, a very direct indication of how to help the economy in this situation in which the economy is today. And whoever doesn't realize that it is necessary to help the economy these days, then I would say, very difficult times have been written for Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u91	Thank you, too. The word is Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u92	Let me interpret the proposed amendment as follows. Imagine a highly profitable business institution. Like an insurance company. After this amendment, the insurance company with a few million euros of profits for its business property in the country will not pay a single euro of tax. We will leave the entire tax burden to the inhabitants. I understand there's a lot of evidence of property tax that he's not righteous. I must say, I have a writer who is a sincere and very persistent critic of this tax. The unfairness of this tax is, in fact, linked to the system of how the tax is calculated. This amendment does not contribute to this injustice, in fact it further exacerbates it. Look, I don't like taxes, like none of you and none of our fellow citizens. We all understand taxes as a burden. In this country, by the quality of public services, with the standards of the social state, we do not know with the quality of the infrastructure that money is needed for all of this and that the tax paid is also a corresponding equivalent. Obviously in Slovenia, we do not appreciate this contradiction, and we believe that the margin of taxes is too high in relation to the equivalent that we get in some of the public goods in return. That's one of our problems. Obviously, we will have to do more to balance this equivalent of value between the tax paid on the one hand and the other, with the rational organisation of the public sector, the lean country after presenting some of them. But look at where our problem is; many of us can be very clever when we talk about rationalising the public sector when we talk about too many social states and similar ideas. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the level of social state we have today in Slovenia does not prevent a person from living in dignity who is in distress for various reasons. Is it not our idea of what a social state is, in fact, that we all work together to create, work hard, but when it breaks down for us, there is a community that represents us, at least for a time, some shelter to stand on our feet, and that we do not suffer worse damage to our social standards at that time? This can happen because of unemployment, because of illness, for a variety of reasons. Therefore, when an individual is affected by this accident, the State must be able to balance this shortfall in income for a certain period of time in an appropriate manner. For some, such as permanent disabled persons and similar things, similar categories of people, of course, the social state must take care of this for a very long period of time. And this social state is, of course, dependent on money and, on the other hand, it is necessary to ensure that the country has sufficient revenue. It is similar with the public sector. Many of you twist flags and claim that the public sector in this country is too much of a consumer of money. I agree that at a number of points in the public sector, smart rationalisation can still be ensured, especially through the de-liberation of the country, by a little stopping the horses in the further process of pre-norming the country. I am convinced that no one in this Chamber is claiming to be the people we are paid to adopt laws to make rules in this country, and these rules are no longer in place for a long time. And these are our processes, these are our problems, over-complex processes that create tasks and these tasks also create the wealth of the state administration. Remember, there are problems with tires of police cars in this country, which shows that we also have a number of needs in the public sector that are not satisfied. Why not? Because there's not enough money!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, secretary of state with coworkers! For starters, I'll support the amendment. The fact is that this law, as we have said several times before, has brought about a new nationalisation of the Slovenian countryside. What's more, he wants to literally steal at this stage and get into the hands of a couple of individual tycoons. I'm sorry. Poor insurance company, if she has a huge million profits, and she won't pay the tax, she'll really come up with it, but it's mostly state-owned, but if not, they pay the profit tax anyway, the state takes as much as it wants. So that's not the problem. We're not even talking about that. It is true, however, that the country needs to provide revenue. This is true and, of course, I absolutely agree with this, but not in the way of indebtedness, because more taxes come in; with higher taxes comes lower standards and pensioners will in this way – without their pensions being reduced, but with taxes they will have less because they will have to pay extra taxes. Now I'm going to be very specific. Ma'am mag. Secretary of State of Vraničarova, you said that if there is no property there is no tax. Well, let's go to the specifics, then I'll give you the documentation, and I want to get an answer, with names and surnames. On Sunday, at half past six o'clock in the morning, my family comes to me with tears in their eyes and says, "We can't do anything anymore, we can only turn to you." Today I have the opportunity to present this publicly, with names and surnames: "I am Darja Slekovec and do not own any real estate, yet the Geodetic Board of RS sent me an informational calculation for the pitches in Mali Nedeli 22, which are co-owners of Stanislava Slekovec and Miroslav Slekovec, father and mother. At this address, I do not live, nor do I carry out economic activities. I have the right only after the death of my co-owner, i.e. the mother of Stanislave Slekovec, on arrival on short leave to stay in the residential part of the building 359, using one room and a bathroom. But they calculated my tax rate of 0.50 on the entire apartment area. In the guest part of the building I could only be a guest, for which they charged the tax rate 0.75..." and, of course, the rest of the land and so on. Well, what's most frightening is that we have thousands in the country. "I've come to 18 with an information calculation. 3. 2014 at the Geodetic Board of the Republic of Slovenia in Ljutomer near Mr Rajko Mlinarič, but I was not able to arrange anything because they told me that this informative calculation could not be changed or corrected." So this is happening to our people, this is happening to ordinary citizens and citizens. That's not how you treat people, that's how you do it! It is unfair, unfair, not only that nationalisation of the Slovenian countryside will occur, so that we will destroy those who carry into this tax-paying state small, we will also do a great deal of wrong. That's a lot of guilt! Therefore, in the Slovenian People’s Party, we have long proposed, repeated, and said that the tax should enter into force with 1. 1. 2016, and this time legislation should be prepared as necessary. I am sure that, with the capacity of the Secretary of State, which I highly appreciate, we could draw up such legislation and arrange everything if we had enough time. Unfortunately, the government coalition has quickly pushed this law through the procedure and now we see what kind of barn we are in. Not in what barn we are as the National Assembly, but the Constitutional Court will judge it and so on, but citizens and citizens on specific occasions. And that's not fair, that's not how you do things with people. That's not how pigs work, let alone humans. I'm going to hand this over to you, and I'm going to ask you to give an answer to Stripes Gifts and to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary of State with co-workers! I'll try to avoid the opposition rhetoric. One of the foundations of Christian politics is personal responsibility, and we are talking about the need to pay taxes, of course. And just as once, when the sentence came to give to God what is God's, and to Caesar, what is Caesar's, I will also take into my hand today, even though it is Jewish, our coin, which says beautiful Slovenian "Slovenia", is the relief of Primož Trubar and his quote "stand still". All of this obliges us to pay taxes because it is Slovenia. Of course, taxes, as I said before, must also be stimulating. And if anything, and if any legislation, then tax legislation must be crystal clear from a legal point of view and crystal clear should be tax rates and, of course, reliefs or exemptions. With regard to the amendment of colleagues and colleagues from the SDS, we understand that it is a matter of considering supporting the Slovenian economy, particularly the small economy. Here I have to correct my colleague Romano in a tiny way when she said that the small economy represents about 98% of the entire Slovenian economy. A little more. Almost 99% of the Slovenian economy is a small economy. In view of the situation in which this economy is in intensive care, it is likely that this moment should be helped. How can we help him? I'm sure it's not high taxes! If someone understands and thinks that the development of the economy starts by raising taxes, with tax burdens, then that's it. As Mr Churchill once said, promoting the tax economy is like raising the bucket of water you're standing in. That's not working. That's not going to work for now as long as the forces of gravity are in place. Look, we have data today, thanks to the information calculations. On 18 March, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry published the results of the survey. She asked and answered about a thousand tradesmen, i.e. representatives of the small economy, and said that their average burden was about 244% higher than the current NUSZ and that more than 95% of small economies would pay more real estate taxes than they have paid so far for the use of bet land. Look, that's not good. I'm not saying that, once the economic boom is back, when the conjuncture occurs, that maybe then we can fix the tax rates, we say, get up. Not today, for God's sake, when the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy has fallen dramatically when we need economic growth, jobs that today, as we know – I repeat – that the economy, especially the small economy in intensive care, is on tubes to put additional nails in a coffin. Therefore, in this amendment, it is worth considering that we will still spare the economy, because the only economy, ladies and gentlemen, will draw Slovenia out of the crisis and the only economy will make sure that we and the younger generation will have pensions, not just the current pensioners, that we will have a better health system, a better school system and so on. Therefore, I should also like to reiterate here the words of the President of the European Parliament, Mr Martin Schulz, who spoke with the rhetoric of the European People's Party, said that small businesses, small and medium-sized enterprises have been driving the development of Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mrs. Iva Dimic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I will support the SDS Group's amendment myself because it is actually a support to a small economy and rural, agriculture. All together, I think that in some ways these two or these two entities are saving Slovenia not only from a financial or economic break, but also from a bit of hunger. This is precisely why I expect some understanding from the Government, however, to be heard, because we have already had so much debate as, at what rates, the economy, economic facilities and infrastructure facilities will be taxed. It is unreasonable, once again in this national council, that Gorenje, for example, is taxed at a rate of 0.75 and, over the road, Termoelectrica Šostanj, with 0.40. In the same places, on the same fertile land or infertile as you'll say, you'll probably find some explanation, but it's obvious that a certain lobby came in here, but we talked about this at one of the previous meetings. I would expect, not least, some coordinated operation of the ruling team, including the ministers. Three weeks ago, in Logatco, we had a meeting with Mr Jew and, unfortunately, with Mr Drago, there was no representative in the field of finance. There were hundreds of economists, small local economists from the Polish and interior regions. One of the issues was Mr Dragonji's if the rate of taxation on the economic premises was to be reduced. Mr. Dragonja said yes. They asked how much it would go down. Mr Dragonja said that as much as the agricultural premises are taxed. So it's going to go from 0.75 to 0.30. At the same time as I was expecting this news, I did not know from the media that the matter proposed by Minister Draganje did not go through the government. So you're kind of an uncoordinated team that doesn't go with the same information between people, between craftsmen, small businessmen, and you don't have the same information. I think it's uncoordinated – not that it's uncoordinated, it's irresponsible! People were expecting there, they got the highest commitment that could give them a promise and shed some light, and that was Minister Dragonja, and I actually see after all these correspondences that the matter didn't go anywhere further. And there's one more thing I'd like to point out here, which is also regulated by the SDS amendment. These are dead farms. Did anyone wonder what would happen to these dead farms? I'll say again, maybe after Prekmurje, there's more when they had pig farms and they just shut things down and they've got barns set up. Who's gonna pay for this now? Someone with a minimum wage! Should I order someone to take them down? You know, it's also 10,000 euros, the rehabilitation of an object. I think the whole thing got out of hand, too fast. We have warned that we will agree, take into account all the problems, all the specifics. Perhaps the desire to fill the Treasury was too great, and in some ways all these matters have been overtaken. I therefore call once again: let us listen to the small economists who are shouting, but unfortunately there is often a voice screaming in the desert that you understand and lower these rates – no one is paying taxes to understand each other. But let the burdens be fairly distributed and let us give them the opportunity to get on their feet, because with the greater scale they will have, they will contribute more to the tax box.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ludmila Novak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u100	Your Honor, hello! We talked a lot about this law, about the property tax; much and much too much. This marriage has also created a lot of discontent, a lot of worries, a lot of problems, I'm going to say again a lot, a lot, a lot. At the same time, I have the impression that he will be of very little use. I also have the impression that this law or that this law has hired citizens, that we are now dealing with ourselves. Each thought of his own problem in this marriage, and this makes us less sensitive to those who actually turn or spend or misuse much greater sums of money. In fact, I was encouraged by the Secretary of State when she said that this amendment would delete the revenue of the municipalities. Perhaps at the moment, but the state will take away the original income from the municipalities by enforcing this law in a few years. Then she'll take everything! I believe that this compensation for the use of building land, the original income of municipalities, was much more regulated by the duty or revenue for municipalities and that the money we give to municipalities is also being used very deliberately. Then we will have one more argument that municipalities must be abolished because they have less income. Of course, if we impose new obligations on them and take up revenues, they will certainly not be able to bear all these burdens anymore. And what is the primary responsibility of the congregation, or what is the primary task of the State? To create the conditions that people will be able to work with greater joy and thus with these new taxes, we have the feeling that those who have been working, who have created something through generations, and, on the other hand, this law, which we are changing today, are being punished, we are revoking the taxation of luxury. At the same time, we do not want to see that, however, craftsmen, entrepreneurs, family companies have facilities where they provide jobs in which they can work, because of these facilities they can also have employees, they pay contributions, which makes them less unemployed. This should be the main task of the country to encourage such people to continue to work. Even when we visit various small family businesses — what do we hear? Inspections! Of course, there's a lot of black work, there's a lot of cover-up and so on, but this is a disproportionate punishment. Someone had several euros more in the cash register than the accounts show – and 800 euros in fines! Let us control large, where contributions are not actually paid, where many things can be hidden, while these small ones are encouraged to continue to work with joy to know what they are working for, so that they can provide jobs for themselves, for their family and for others. In view of the fact that the Constitutional Court will communicate its decision on this law tomorrow, I am convinced that we must write a new law that so many problems, so much nonsense as in this law, are difficult to correct with ever-new corrections. But then it is necessary to listen, to listen to those who have practical experience, not only to see how we fill the state treasury as much as possible because it is a short - term profit, but in the long run, great damage is done.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Michael Prevc, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u102	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President! Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! When he was a good month ago, perhaps a little more, the enthroned Minister Dragonja, Minister of Economy, and soon after that appointment began with his performance, he made it very clear that there was one possibility that the economy would be burdened, and finally this amendment to the Real Estate Act. Minister Dragonja probably suggested to the government that the tax rate for small businesses should be reduced, but he was obviously not heard there. However, the entrepreneurs hoped that something would happen in this area, but unfortunately it did not. As such, the government did not have this hearing and, of course, it is normal for the Slovenian Democratic Party to be a party with this amendment, which, of course, is also supported by other opposition Members, to try to help entrepreneurship in some way. For all of us in this hall - full of mouths - are we to burden the economy, that the only economy is that and, above all, that little entrepreneurship, which is actually at the heart of our economy, how it should be helped. I think it is in this real estate law that we have actually missed a great opportunity or in the government that you missed a great opportunity to help the small economy here, with this law, and not least to help a great deal of the way out of the crisis. I believe, as you said, Madam Secretary of State, that this amendment poses a strong threat to the revenues you have obviously planned. That's the means you planned to get by this tax. I believe that's the problem. See, that's why we offered you a cooperation hand at the Slovenian People's Party when we adopted the Real Estate Act. We have said that this is such an important law, and we have also made it clear that we need this real estate law, but it is so important that in this project both the coalition and the opposition must step together and nevertheless seduce this story together. But, of course, there was no obedience on your part, and of course the result of that is then such an amendment. That's what it says about the amendment. As for other matters: once again, Madam Secretary of State, that night we warned you several times that a residence should be equalized, that is to say the tax rate of residential and non-residential dwellings. You didn't listen to us. This time you're bringing this into your new marriage because the storm that happened was too severe. Finally, many owners of such and different facilities, which were empty, will say in particular old farm buildings, which were empty, for which they should pay a significantly higher tax rate than the new facility they live in, have used such and different solutions. The services went into writing, normally, it was just such an opportunity, and you know, the lawyers again earned a lot of money on that account. Because entering a service through a notary office isn't such a cheap thing. Unfortunately, they were forced to do so. Maybe something else; we have clearly warned you that as far as the records are concerned, that we should freeze the law for a year or two, that in these years, that at this time [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] But there was no hearing here either. [[…]] So we are truly disappointed today. Last but not least because we know that tomorrow we will get the position of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Andrej Chuš, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u104	Madam President, thank you very much for your words. It's a property tax. It seems to me that when we're in the National Assembly, all I do is listen to human resources exchanges, and the tax, that tax, that burden, that burden. Well, punishment, of course. Thank you for the correction. At that time, we had this famous session until seven o'clock in the morning. I must say, you haven't listened to us too much, and I think you won't listen to us today. The real estate tax itself could be referred to as the largest experiment, failed of course, in the time of the independent Republic of Slovenia. Today, some here also in the implementation of the presentations on the positions of the parliamentary groups have said that the Slovenian nation is responsible for this tax. Ladies and gentlemen, this tax is the fault of the government of Alenka Bratušek and exclusively the government of Alenka Bratušek! When we think a little about the very purposes of this law, the law itself would remind us of the model of Soviet nationalization of property in the previous century, and we ourselves know what it brought: a bunch of poor people and a handful of rich people. Mr Prevc also made good reference to the issue of irregular records and, in fact, you have transferred what should be done by the public administration to all Slovenians and Slovenians who have now been regulating their records for months and weeks. In the final phase, some have even received a dose of what amount to be paid, but they have not been between us for more than ten years. It's not happening in any other country in the world, nobody's gonna convince me of that. But the tax will hurt all Slovenians and Slovenians. When I listen to the views of some parties, it really seems to me that they consider themselves social and liberal. Maybe these parties are social in that we'll all be equally poor. When you talk long and wide about economic growth today, if you work for it, you will support our amendment, if not, you will continue to remind me of a North Korean television host who says North Korea is a free country. I don't need the law, so you'd better take your bankers, give them unjustifiable privileges, but, as Mr Frangež said, there are reserves in the wider public sector and we could talk about it. Our amendment of the SDS Group is going specifically towards the unloading of agricultural buildings, buildings for business, energy and industrial properties and properties used for the care of older people. In this respect, I can say that this amendment is also intergenerational and the support of DeSUS should be somehow self-evident. When the secretary of state said that this tax would not affect those who do not have real estate – I don't know. A bunch of students and young people live in rented apartments, and the owners of these apartments will take it, of course, the payment of this tax, to us young people. That is why, of course, I appeal for the widest possible support of this amendment not only because of intergenerational solidarity and the economy, but because this government does something in style or the sense of unloading the Slovenian people for once.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Beznik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u106	Thank you very much. I trust my fellow Members and colleagues that you are aware that there can be no smaller steps in the 130 thousand unemployed, but there must be concrete, real steps and concrete signs of the market, especially for people, entrepreneurs, those who decide on entrepreneurship, foreign investors who intend to come to the territory of Slovenia, at least thinking that Slovenia is ready to go to some new paradigm, to create a new favourable business environment. This is the task of us, politicians and these tasks we must be aware of. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware of this throughout this country's creation, as well as in the People's Party, as well as in colleagues from the Christian Democrats, but, of course, those who are the successors of some former parties or satellites of former Communist parties, you have never been aware of this and I don't blame you for that either. But the problem is the 130,000 unemployed. This needs to be said today that 130 000 unemployed are 130 000 registered unemployed. All kinds of people who work across the border in Austria today – of course, we do not have them in special records. When I meet with Austrian politicians, they are quite sad — in fact, they help us at the moment; they help our people so that certain families can survive. Mostly those on the edge of Slovenia. See, creating a good or favourable business environment in one country, which is in an extremely important geostrategic position, is what you should be aware of. Creating a favourable economic policy is not only creating some unilateral taxes, but you can look at society in a comprehensive way: its legal system, the functioning of the legal system through the judiciary; then you have to look at the so-called history of social relations in this country, you have to look at a whole range of sociofactors, where we also consider faith or differences of faith, and all of this affects the development of entrepreneurship. People decide daily in some of their written or oral contracts — how will they decide? So, a man is a homo economics, he decides; and in such taxes, he makes a different decision. So, what did we predict? We have announced zero – one of the first conditions that we can set up a serious entrepreneurial environment here. For all those involved in entrepreneurship, industry, it is imperative not to tax them. This is absolutely necessary. And not only do we accept it, or let us say that a miracle happens that they will accept it, it must remain as some label of Slovenia, so that it does not tax at least on the real estate tax of serious entrepreneurs and industry. The next thing that will happen – there must be a thorough change in the school system. The next one, however, must be thoroughly overturned by the judicial system. These are three key factors to create a serious business environment in Slovenia. Look, tomorrow's Friday. Tomorrow, all those who are now small entrepreneurs who are taxed at 0.75%, farmers in the countryside, in the Slovenian Gorica, at 0.3%. So those who have farms of 7 hectares who barely survive, who have also set up more facilities alongside a small farm, so that they could build barns, so that they could build a whole range of facilities for their machines The ones would ask to come to Ljubljana tomorrow morning to look at this second, this difference between the patriots and the plebeians. [[…]] At 11 a.m. they will be able to look at full cafes, full of innkeepers who are already working various political parties, even a number of students, even a number of public servants, it is full, and around 2 p.m. they will go slowly to their weekends to the Martuljek Forest, Piran, Portorož – all those who are taxed at 0.15% rate. This is the story of this Slovenian country, these Slovenian big differences, this Slovenian non-social country, which is also considered by the undergraduate, lazy, people who are waiting for large trains to be brought into their lives. That's the big difference. That's why people are leaving; they're leaving entrepreneurs, they're deciding differently, and that's an environment that's self-sufficient and self-sufficient on foreign loans. How long are they gonna be? Thus this environment will be self-sufficient and some will be able to sing: "In Slovenia we are the master." When these loans are [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Then it'll be too late. I believe you will support this amendment because it is one of the first pillars for a better, more favourable entrepreneurial environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Robert Croat, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u108	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have already made it very clear that we will end this law immediately after the elections. The real estate tax law will be abolished. It's our commitment. The fact is that today we have tabled an amendment indicating the direction of the drafting of a new law, because this law, such as this one, cannot be fixed with any amendments. That's a fact. The fact is, you didn't listen to us, the opposition, you didn't listen to the craftsmen, you didn't listen to the entrepreneurs, you didn't listen to the farmers, you didn't listen to anyone. You thought you knew everything. You've passed a law you've been fixing for months. Tomorrow will be the decision of the Constitutional Court, we can assume, given the number of requests made at the Constitutional Court, that certain changes, perhaps even a new law, will be necessary. That would be far better for everyone. Resolving the budget deficit on taxpayers' shoulders is simply unfair. Not only unjust, it's unacceptable. The correct course of budgetary deficit resolution is the controlled sale of state assets and money to be allocated to state treasury, including the pension fund, of course that certain amount of state property, which will then also ensure the stability of this treasury. What is approaching us – again a new pension reform. And you'll see, that's probably what's gonna happen. In 2013, 250 million Euros were uncollected. That's the manna you want to collect with the property tax. Why doesn't he pick it up first? Why don't you do anything about it? Our tax rates are falling, here we go in the direction of the desire of craftsmen, entrepreneurs, farmers and so on. I believe this amendment will not be accepted. It is a pity that we will not, but I believe that in the Slovenian Democratic Party, when we come back to the coalition or power, we will write this law completely again. It seems abnormal to me that there have been 400,000 corrections in the records so far — 400,000! Do you know what that means? That's an abnormal number. And now you're extending it for another month. Look, the real sector tells you one thing, you do the other. And there is something else I would like to point out that I have been alerted to from the real sector and that they do not understand, these corrections and these irregular records and so on. See if a craftsman makes metal products and wants to sell them, or if he wants to sell them 10, 100, or a million — if he wants to sell them, this metal product must be flawless. If it's not flawless, if it's not good, it can't sell it, it's in the real sector. However, how is it in the public sector that these records should be regulated – they are not regulated. Who was the answer? Who's gonna lose their job? Is that why the minister is flying? Is that why someone else is flying? It would be good if you asked me. It would be right, because whatever we're looking at, it's one big scam, the law as it is, the records as it is, and everything else that fits. And there's one more thing. The property tax, in any form whatsoever, should be the income of the congregations. It's always been that way, everywhere, we're the only ones waving that huge budget hole with a property tax. That's not right. Therefore, I suggest, if not otherwise, that you support at least this amendment of ours, which goes in the direction of assistance to craftsmen, entrepreneurs, farmers and all those who do so in one way or another. [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew the Vranic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. A few words about records and data repair. Yes, 400 thousand data have been corrected in the real estate register in the past two months, out of 100 million data, which means that it has been corrected by 0.4% of the data contained in the real estate register. About 60,000 people came to the Geodetic Authority, and these 60,000 people were correcting about 400 thousand data, 60,000 of a million 100 thousand owners. This is why we estimate that this represents a large number in mass, but when we look at the ratio to all the data and to all the owners, this can be said to be a manageable and expected amount of corrections to be made. Unfortunately, we are property owners in such a way that we have not been able to make the first informational calculations since 2010, until now, when we knew that this would essentially result in a dose based on the property register data to the property tax. We haven't sorted the data. And yes, to a certain extent, some problems have also led to inadequate data transfers between individual national institutions and these deficiencies, which have also been detected through informational calculations, were eliminated on the basis of informational calculations, without prejudice to the owners. However, the fact is that those data that are only available to the owners and only to the owners cannot be repaired or modified by any state authority on an official basis in the real estate register. A few more words about tax as a source of local budgets. In the Systemic Provisions of the Real Estate Tax Act, the property tax is a shared resource, divided income: in one part belongs to the State budget, in one part belongs to local communities, and in this part it remains essentially the original or remaining revenue of municipal budgets. At the request of the municipalities for a three-year transitional period and during this three-year transitional period, there are revenues from this tax on the State budget and, in essence, the State budget provides a transfer to municipalities of the amount in 2012 of the awarded compensation for the use of building land, thereby ensuring that the transition from one arrangement to another is essentially stable. However, I mentioned earlier that the proposed amendment means, after the expiry or after the expiry of the transitional period, 120 million deficits for municipal budgets — not for state budgets, for municipal budgets! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal. Here you go, Mr. Blacky.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u112	Thank you very much. So, I would like to clarify one thing before further discussion, or I think that, from what has been said now, this is already the case, because the representative of one of the bill's proponents has already spoken the second time, means, of course, that we can all apply repeatedly for the debate. I would also suggest that you confirm this by the President for the sake of the colleagues and colleagues knowing and understanding this. The subject is important. Here we have written in this schedule: the debate on the amendments, the simultaneous application of Members and Members and the motioners: Governments and, of course, groups of Members and Members of the Parliament of the Slovenian Democratic Party with the first-signed Member Andrej Širclje. In view of the fact that the State Secretary, as a representative of one of the drafters of the law, has already spoken for the second time, I believe that this has, of course, given the possibility of multiple applications to all the other representatives of the applicants, and I would ask the President to make this public, because we will be able to deal with our further discussions in accordance with what has somehow happened and confirmed in this statement by a representative of the Government of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Mr Chernač, for this procedural proposal, but it certainly follows from the Rules of Procedure that everyone can apply in each round that I open. Unless I, as President, put to the vote that everyone should only come forward once, which I am not. That means everyone who wants a word gets a word in every circle. In any case, the proposer may also get a word at any time, although you can apply in each round. [[…]] Mr. Blackach, would you like a procedural proposal? [[Yeah.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u114	Thank you so much for those words. With this somehow confirmed my thinking, so given the topic that we have today on the table, this is the Real Estate Tax Act, I believe that this debate will be wide and if it will be the 20th turn-in circles, it is true that we can apply 20 times. Thank you very much. I'm reporting for further discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u115	So far, no one has indicated a desire to limit the matter. So I'm opening the next round of debate, please apply. We have nine panellists registered. First of all, Mr. Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u116	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Our amendment is aimed at decommissioning agricultural land, agricultural premises, economic buildings, business buildings and, of course, those for the homes of older citizens. Let me explain myself. Agricultural land is already burdened with cadastral income, so to speak, already taxed. They are now being charged with property taxes and not only agricultural land, but also agricultural buildings. It has already been said here that many of these agricultural buildings have been abandoned, that those who have not been competitive as farmers have left farming and will now pay high taxes for these facilities. We have a situation in agriculture so that our agricultural land is growing, that our self-sustainment is falling, and we are taxing this activity further. We know that food production in Slovenia must be subsidised, that the economy must co-finance food production, that farmers are competitive and now we are dealing with an additional tax on this activity. Then economic buildings. Here the President of the Government has said that some companies will now pay less than they have paid. That's right! Above all, in larger cities, municipalities where the compensation for the use of building land was high, higher than now the real estate tax. A living example is the congregation of Velenje, which has collected seven million NUZs, and now it will be four million tax dollars. Almost half as much, I guess. It will receive back six million and half in three years of tax, even though it has collected only four million, and all these economic operators will pay less tax than the NUSZ. That's right. It's just, what's the difference between getting four million on their own and getting six and a half? From the countryside! In these cities, the prices of services of certain craftsmen are also higher because they are also a higher standard, and they will now pay less than they have paid so far. For them, they will be paid by craftsmen, small businesses from the countryside, where they barely survive, and the tax will be passed on to these larger congregations. Here it is unfair and therefore we think that these economic operators need to be exempt from this tax because they are still paying a profit tax and other benefits; and I think they are paying enough. Then the buildings used, for example, in rural areas or in tourist areas for some complementary activity, are taxed with 0.75 so far. Why? And so did the hotels. These economic operators will not survive, by no means! But we have an example, let's say someone has five apartments worth 300 grand, they're going to pay 0.15. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] But someone has one building worth more than 500,000 will pay 0.25 more; because there is one building, there are not five. It's not right. Then we still have homes for the elderly. I've been listening on the radio. They're not real estate owners. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Paying the tax through the guardianship. [[…]] It's not true that if there's no real estate, there's no tax. That's why it's not right. And I hope that if the amendment is not adopted, [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Matevž Frangež, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u118	Actually, I'm calling because earlier in the five minutes, I was a little surprised, and I didn't actually round my mind. In short, I talked about the fact that we pay taxes because we expect to have a counterbalance in the quality of public services, a functioning public, that is, the social state, quality infrastructure and so on. In Slovenia, I think it is necessary to move away from taxing assets to a greater extent, so that we can relieve the tax burden of benefits, especially wages. If we look at the reasons for the non-competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, Mr Tonin spoke yesterday and compared the salary of the Slovak and Slovenian workers. If the employer wants to give one and the other thousands of euros of net revenue, it will pay a thousand EUR 300 gross in Slovakia, while a thousand EUR 900 in Slovenia. I agree with the intention of his question that this is a problem in Slovenia, but if we want to ensure, not least, that we are also reminded by the European Commission, that we are not competitive in terms of wages, and that this idea of the European Commission came to light that we need to reconsider the minimum wage in Slovenia – I say that there is no reserve for minimum wage, but that we need to create a reserve for our gross wage burden, so that we can actually become more competitive with reduced taxation and, as it were, in this global job battle on the part of those countries that will be able to offer more favourable conditions to investors. But this, as it is said, needs to be balanced on the other hand, also by shifting taxation from the income from the active address, from work to property in Slovenia. This is, last but not least, the systemic reason for the Real Estate Tax Act. This amendment refers to the fact that business real estate would be fully decommissioned, I said before, which means that an insurance company that generates a few million euros a year would not pay the euro of taxes for its business properties. In this respect, too, this proposal is not fair. But I am very open to the debate about lowering the burden of the economy. It has already been said that, in fact, in the coordination phase, three coalition parties took the initiative to reduce 0.75% further, the Government argued that the calculations show that such a burden corresponds to the burden from the existing compensation for the use of building land and, on the other hand, we know the surveys showing that this burden has increased several times. I agree with those who think we should make an extra effort here. My colleague Brana Golubovic said for the last time in this context that a country and government that does not find a reserve of €30 million in 8 billion to reduce this burden has a serious problem. In this respect, I absolutely agree and support the amendment in its intention to reduce the burden on the economy, but I think it would be unfair to fully remedy this burden, because then the citizens on the one hand and on the other hand would be in an unequal position. In this regard, I welcome the Minister's initiative or the commitment of Minister Dragonje to further reflect on this issue, but I can say that, according to my opinion, the burden somewhere at half a percent is that of creating additional oxygen or lowering this burden on the economy at a more sustainable level, but the Government must, of course, tell us what fiscal effects are and where we could find reserves for such a reduction.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Grimes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u120	Your Honor! Good-bye to all of you! First; have you noticed what we are fixing today? The real estate tax law is precisely the one and only tax in this mandate, on which President Alenka Bratušek, Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, placed a trustee. In fact, Alenka Bratušek, by tying her confidant, forced the law to be pushed through parliament, despite violent opposition from the opposition, the professional public, with the well-meaning warnings of those who were about to carry it out, and in spite of the obstruction, protests are said by leaving the Chamber by the opposition. Therefore, all responsibility for this law is on the part of the ruling coalition and, in the first place, the Government with its President at the head, who has apparently tied up the confidant, because it considers the adoption of this law to be extremely important, even symbolic, nature for the current coalition. Now you can see when this law began to be implemented what this law really is. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia can use the same words as the great Paganini, when the self-proclaimed composer brought him his notes, and Paganini returned them to him with the words: "Congratulations, you are stronger than God, God created order out of chaos, and you created chaos yourself." And that's exactly how it is in this law; you created chaos in tax offices, you created chaos in the economy, you created chaos of values. People were able to see in newspapers properties on several floors of a beautiful villa, estimated by this law to be €50,000. I know the example of a building with wooden ceilings, 150 years old, which was already a mushroom inside, estimated at 450 000 euros. So compare this if you can! I know the case when the decision came to the children, it was their mother's property ownership, with a 0.5 tax burden on the grounds that they checked and that the mother no longer lives at this address. That mother has been dead for years, and inheritance has been incorporated into the land book several years ago. This is what you created by this law, so that it was tragic to listen to someone who even gave his signature in support of Positive Slovenia in the last elections and who stood out for it and financed it, and when he got that decision in the municipality in Kranj, he was smothered and I had the opportunity to hear that he had previously paid about 20,000 Euros of contribution to the use of the building land, but now that he had converted up to a quarter of a million euros, he stopped counting and came to ask how he would shut down all his companies and shut down all the activities he had because he had spent so much money on the salaries of all his employees in half a year. It's just that if you think of the economy as just a dairy cow and you've overlooked that by smothering it, it stops giving milk. By doing so, you will destroy tax revenues and create new unemployed and new types of people who will, of course, want social money — again from the pockets of taxpayers. Which one will you take? Even with further debt, that's all you know! And we're fixing this marriage today. This law has been passed against development and dishonesty. It is no wonder that Mrs Bratusek has placed a trust on him because he is obviously a symbolic nature for this government. It is necessary to amend this law in its entirety, and we have already made a commitment to abolish it as soon as the electorate has given us enough confidence to do so. Right away. Until then, at least there is a need to make an equation and for the economy, for all economic activities I claim, a complete exemption from tax to the maximum extent possible. The amendment we have proposed goes to this extent. It is going in a developmental direction, because today the Slovenian economy, Slovenian entrepreneurship are overloaded and these lost opportunities, no one can return lost jobs, and we need to act immediately. We can't wait until the election! At least support this amendment, so that at least in this part the economy may become somewhat debilitated, so that it can open up another job or at least keep it, and that the country will in fact receive more tax inflows than it would otherwise have, because in the long run, you are demanding the branch itself. [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Andrej Vizjak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u122	Thank you very much. There are many things with this real estate tax to stress. Thus, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also made clear with this proposal and with this novelty, which is currently under consideration, who will be most resilient with this tax or who will be less affected than before. I think that this is in some ways very significant and shows the attitude of this government to capital and to those who create it in this country. The government has decided to place far more burdensome, tax burdens on the economy; small, medium and large enterprises; those who create, those who pay taxes and those which can even operate subsystems in this society. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we oppose this and propose lower, drastically lower taxes. There is something else that the government is reporting with this novel, which is even more problematic. With this novel, the government will burden the richest. Those properties worth more than 500 000 euros will then be taxed less, less taxed than they have been before. In short, those who create should be taxed more, those rich people who have dead properties, weekends with more than 500 000 euros, should be taxed less, as a non-residential building will be taxed with 0.15 and a profit of 0.25. So far it's been 0.5! This is one thing I want to say, and it makes it very clear that the attitude towards the Slovenian economy and the empty word, the floscules and the misleading of everyone in this government, especially the prime minister and the finance ministry, is that the absolute priority, as the prime minister likes to say, is the economy and the creation of new jobs. In such a country, jobs can then only be created by the public sector, as the economy burdened by these taxes cannot create jobs. That is why we are proposing this amendment to relieve the economy. Directly funny are the words of Minister Dragoj to support lower taxation of the economy in the Member States. Where is Mr. Dragonja today? Where is this fighter for the economy? Home or anywhere, I don't know. In the main, there is no tax on economic property in Parliament. Who was Mr. Dragonja fighting? Did he fight with us when we tabled the only amendment to reduce the taxation of the economy? We didn't have him. We'd put it in one way or another. Has any other coalition party tabled such an amendment? This is said to have been totally unsuccessful in all coalition parties, since no one has tabled an amendment to this absolute over-taxation of 0.75 economies. I call on Minister Draganjo to step down because he failed to do anything but say an empty word. He failed to convince the government, he failed to convince the coalition members. Such a minister who speaks, as one of the Members says, would be good, that it is different, but it is so – see, we do not need this in this country and in this government. Nor can lastly taxation, the decommissioning of the economy as a whole of this tax, be a temporary measure, of course, during the economic crisis. It is certainly necessary to establish a fairer system of taxation, including economic operators. Some sectors of the economy, especially tourism, which are very strong in real estate, like energy facilities, should be treated differently, such as energy facilities. In short, the government's proposal stems from total irregularities, total disregard for those who create taxes in this country. We have previously heard that taxes are paid to ensure that subsystems work, not least that we can live well in this country. Do you know why taxes are paid? So that Mr. Procurator has a job at the New Ljubljana Bank. In order to – this is typical political corruption – employ a thank - you staff at a bank that has significantly helped with tax money and is saved by tax money. Therefore, operators in this country are paying taxes to reward those who have done political work that have prevented political opponents with good services in state-owned enterprises. Shame, respectable!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Tinker Bell, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u124	All in attendance, all in attendance! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we know that only by doing so can we not substantially correct the amendments to this poor Real Estate Tax Act. We're aware of that, but there's something we can do. What has been said several times now and the ambitions that the Minister responsible for the economy should have had could be realized through the adoption of this amendment. Marriage, we know that it is bad, is inadequate, and should, of course, be rejected or removed from the world long ago. We have repeatedly warned of the consequences of the law and of what happened later. Last but not least, very intensively in the stage of the adoption of the law, despite the fact that some normal possibilities for discussion and the presentation of all arguments and views have been prevented, this debate has nevertheless presented everything that is going to become a problem and which is still proving to be the biggest problem of this law today. He caused one huge confusion and, on the other hand, he will not have those financial effects that he was originally expected to have. What is worst, however, has been adopted solely for the purpose of ensuring that a budget hole is massaged, but not for those funds, as is the case everywhere in all other countries, to be devoted to additional development and upgrading of local and wider infrastructure. Those harmful consequences that have already occurred cannot be completely eliminated; the fact that tens of thousands of people have wasted their time needlessly and have regulated what well - paid officials should arrange for them will not be remedied by the current abolition of this law. But still. Given that six constitutional assessments plus one, given that we have also proposed in the past months to discuss how and how the concept of property taxation in this country should take place in the future, all of this has been rejected, today is the last moment that this unfortunate law could be abolished from the world. We estimate that this law should be rejected and, of course, then prepared as soon as possible appropriate solutions for the renovation of property taxation. The damage that is coming is also caused directly in the financial field. In the absence of this law, the current real estate tax, the so-called compensation for the use of building land, would have started to receive the first inflows of this local tax from the next month. These inflows are not insignificant; they are an important source for the provision of liquidity municipal budgets, especially in the light of the fact that the municipalities are currently the largest public investor in the Republic of Slovenia, let's say we ignore the investment in TES 6. In all other areas there is the last generator and main engine of this investment impulse of the municipality. If there is no liquidity in support of this area, this cycle will also be halted. In short, huge damage is done in various segments. We can get into a situation, given that he's already in April, that this year there will be no real estate tax or NUSZ. Where, then, will this additional source to fill the government’s financial gap be found? Instead of discussing this seriously two or three months ago, what we proposed to the Committee on Finance was rejected. We are now at the point where we are changing the law the day before the Constitutional Court decides on its adequacy or inadequacy. These inappropriate decisions of the government of Alenka Bratušek are more from day to day. Clearly, the situation is not only confusing in this area with regard to the management of public finances, which is a very important area, but also confusing in the selection of staff to ensure the management of individual resources. This situation is also confusing in the area of health management, management of other matters; in short, we are dealing with some chaos that is transmitted from government to the whole country. The i is this real estate tax law that needs to be removed from the world as soon as possible. More in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Bogovich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party, we have been opposed to such a law since the beginning, as prepared by the government of Alenka Bratušek and the coalition. We are aware of the need to establish a modern, European comparable law in Slovenia, but this is certainly not what we now have in the Slovenian legal order. This is not because it burdens those who have worked in the past to give up a variety of luxuryes and similar things and to establish basic working conditions — today they enjoy low pensions. And those who say you're looking for a social state, think about the pensioners who were building their homes in the 1970s and 1980s, and today they're getting calculations that say 300, 400 euros, they're going to pay one pension, they're going to pay taxes for their homes. We oppose the fact that Slovenian farmers have acquired 30 million euros of new taxes this year. I also ask the Minister of Agriculture from this town if he thinks he will thus provide more self-sustainment in Slovenia. 30 million new taxes, of which half of the tax, remained from other taxes, are 3% of the gross realisation of Slovenian agriculture in Slovenia. We are opposed to this law because craftsmen receive 2.5 times the tax, more than a thousand have registered in a survey where this matter is visible. They therefore justifiably forecast the protest if there is no change. Farmers will also join this protest. As we have told you about the stupidity of this tax, we also tell you that those who work are completely upset and disheartened about such authority, which simply does not allow people any more basic activities, jobs and earnings for their homes, and we would like to take away what they have created in the past. All the party presidents we received from the Director of the Community of Slovenian Natural Medicine Centres, Mr Iztok Podbregar, today again the appeal: "Stop this madness!" Tourism is an activity where over 80 % of all basic assets are intangible fixed assets – read: property you tax. Individual tourist organisations, including medical ones, receive a new tax of 2% of gross realisation. Do these people who work in tourism for 600, 700, 800 euros feel sorry for losing their job? Is that how the social state is built in this country? Last week, I was with colleagues from the People's Party on a study visit to Baden-Würtenberg. We have looked at the organization of this country, where 10 million people, the most developed part of Germany, are in addition to Bavaria. What adorns them: the gross social income in the countryside is the same in cities. It's a land where they make Mercedes and Porsches do something else, where almost half of the children are in a dual system and they get "fachmanne" – those who work. They have a real estate tax in place, between €300 and €400 taxed housing houses, with 2 to 3 times the income of German workers. They could not believe how the country wanted to collect half of this tax in Slovenia. Then I explained the basic intent that this is about patching up a financial hole. But they looked even fatter at me when I said that in future Slovenian municipalities they would pay taxes for their assets and half of that tax would be paid for the country. It wasn't clear. They don't understand about our real estate records. Do you know on which record the property tax in Baden-Württemberg is based? On the record, established in 1921! This is a predictable tax environment, not what we do with us, when top government officials do not realize which country they live in, that everything is as messy as it is. I will not read to you again the amendment around non-residential dwellings, where we have warned you from the Slovenian People's Party exactly about all the traps you set here and you have listened to the SD who wanted to play a demagogic role in this area. We were talking about Slovenian municipalities. The Secretary of State mentions them once again that they have demanded that the tax be equal for three years. Do you know why they asked? Because those of us who dealt with the local government knew what you were going to do. Because they knew that there would be so much chaos that nothing could be gotten out of it, and they wanted what they had in the past. That is why they are; not because they would agree with the tax. They were precisely aware that the decline of these 200 million, which is 10% of the revenue of municipalities, would amount to about a third of the investment potential of Slovenian municipalities. Simply because of this, the Slovenian municipalities said so. I'm gonna apply again because I have something else to say about this tax.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Marian Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. First of all, I have to say that this property tax, prepared by the government of Alenka Bratušek, is the absolute worst, most unjust and extremely harmful tax for everyone and everyone living in Slovenia, both for the pensioners, both for the social workers, both for employers and for agriculture – for everyone and everyone. It is amazing that the government of Alenka Bratušek, in the state of our country, allows people to be burdened with such new burdens. This is extremely unacceptable, irresponsible, and I don't know what else a person could possibly add to it. The government, which is in a state such as ours, is allowed to propose such a law, such a matter, must be true: whether it is wrong or living in another world, or is already moving from the Moon to Mars, because otherwise no reasonable government in any country in the world can afford such a state as ours, so extremely irresponsible taxation. He can't afford it! It is precisely to try to resolve in this confused situation, which is to be resolved, that we have drafted an amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party, which would at least partially try to prevent the government's aggression towards the Slovenian economy. Everything we've tried to do so far has been in the process of preventing this aggression. I hope that this is also an aggression against Slovenian people, the Slovenian economy, the Slovenian countryside and so on. How long will this government need to understand? I call on the entire Slovenian public to oppose the aggression against their own people, which is caused by this government. Here's a document, 27. 3. 2014, Work, written by Aleš Strgar, I will quote part of the sentence: "Minister Dragonja has unsuccessfully advocated a lower tax rate for a small economy, and he has not yet given up..." And so on. It is said that even the Minister of Economy, who recently joined this government, cannot achieve anything. So he's irrelevant, it's better we don't have him. That it's better! And I'm asking him here, from this place, to withdraw immediately. Right away. Because it does not implement what is stated in the protocol to be implemented by the Minister for the Economy, that it must be concerned and so on, that the economy in Slovenia will not sink alive because we are already before the complete flood. I would also like to read another matter sent to me by one of the citizens and citizens and ask you to write it down and answer that question. Therefore, the calculation of the property tax, including the tax rate, was obtained by the former owner, who handed over the property to the heir with the subsistence contract. The current owner, the heir or consumer, has now been the landowner of the property for 30 years and has been paying compensation for the use of the building’s land. The current owner received only the value of the property for knowledge, without calculating the tax rate and the amount of the tax. Following an inquiry into GURS, it is explained from the professional associate that the matter is so regulated. If the former owner is a consumer, as now the new taxpayer does not pay the tax, his income shall be borne if, for example, he exists in the form of a pension or other source. So it can be a grave trespass on property that you cannot influence as owner if you do not have adequate information in time. Presbyterians are usually older people, and they can also be senile or do-gooder less capable of understanding to the public a vast plot called real estate tax.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u130	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. The whole debate in this law, whether for the original law or for this amendment of the law, is an arrogant relationship, I will even say hynav, sometimes also the Uhmepišov relationship of both representatives of the government and unfortunately also representatives of the coalition in the National Assembly, because once again it shows how one is spoken and works another. And even if there's talk of how to try something, they won't. They don't have any arguments for that. Something in this sense, as the Prime Minister of the Government said yesterday, that raising VAT will not burden the economy. Yesterday I sent a tweet to the Chamber of Commerce and to the Chamber of Commerce; they are again appalled at this government. And what is done with this real estate tax — they are again appalled. I believe they support this amendment. This is an amendment, which proposes a zero rate – I hope that at least representatives of all ministries have read it –; a zero rate for agricultural buildings, for business, energy, industrial property and real estate used to provide older people, and for agricultural and forest land, for commercial and industrial use and land for energy purposes. And this government and this coalition are full of mouths about how they're going to do everything for their constituents. From this place, I publicly call on colleagues from the National List and especially colleagues from Positive Slovenia, who are even in the European Group of Liberal Customers – where do you complain that you do not support a zero rate for business, energy, industrial property? One of the first tasks of your coalition contract is to start the economy. You kill him, a pebble on a stone, a nail on a nail, and with that tax you move him somewhere else. In short, you're saying one more thing, and the other you're doing. Why did we choose this zero rate in these properties in the SDS Group in particular? See, Minister Dragonja said to the craftsmen yesterday: "I will make sure that the tax rate of the property tax for the small economy is lower than now proposed." And nothing happened. Nothing! Hope, zero, how can I tell you?Oh, my God! Nothing. Either you shake his hands by the coalition MPs, or the Prime Minister has twisted his hands, or it is obvious that there is another minister in this government who is not up to his job. I'll remember one more time. The current Minister of Agriculture said in 2011 that the rate would be 0.03 for Slovenian agriculture. What's in the existing marriage? And we're saving it for what almost nothing he suggested and you're not happy again! In short, a living disaster, both from the law and from the operation. I may have forgotten to say earlier, this zero rate for facilities used to care for older people, homes for the elderly. And DeSUS is completely silent. DeSUS — the full mouth of the elderly, the destitute, and I do not know what, our poor pensioners will certainly not support this amendment because they speak one language and the other are working and today by pressing the button on this amendment, they will show what they are doing and what they are saying. [[…]] And who, after your proposal for a law that you said you listened to people, would pay less? The richest! Last weekend, I was in the field a little bit, and what did the growers say? I am willing to pay 50 euros more than a non-resident for my cottage if the owners of villas and aparlatmai in Primorsk, in Bled, in Kranjska Gora pay those thousands, two or three thousand euros more. They will easily find 50 euros if those who have the most pay so much more. No! No! But this government gives forgiveness to the richest, and this social government, once again, gives forgiveness to the richest; farmers, craftsmen, economists, everything from small to the biggest, let's hit our wallets and pockets. In short, with the support of this amendment, you will say at least a little that you are at least a little liberal and at least a little bit more concerned about farmers, economists, craftsmen and even the toughest living in homes for others, because this price will be known to them when they or their relatives pay care for the homes of the elderly. But you do one thing, you talk another, and I believe you won't support the amendment. Shameful!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u132	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, everybody! From the Prime Minister, as well as other coalition members, we are listening to the swindlers about the need for new jobs, now you have even announced somewhere that there will be 60,000. I don't know where, because with each new measure, you are putting an additional burden on the economy, and it is a mockery when the Prime Minister says that the economy feels minimally new taxes and new burdens. It's a joke from people. As far as I know, Mrs Bratusek and the team are walking around the field, walking around the regions, and painting with economists. Tell me one economist who told her that the new taxes do not affect their work and even praised her because every two months a new tax, VAT raises, now real estate and a whole bunch of other things! It's a joke from people. I am sure that every time she comes to any company in this country, they say that they are taxed, that they are uncompetitive, that what they tell us when we walk on the ground, that under such conditions they cannot go economy, cannot be better than others, because they are overloaded by taxes, contributions and so on. That is why it is probably one of the lowest assessments of the Prime Minister, because her fairy tales are becoming believed by fewer and fewer people, although the media support her very well and so on; but people are increasingly feeling her fairy tales in their pockets, even those who have lost their jobs precisely because of such a burden on the economy. How should the economy create new jobs? How can they hire people if they practically every day say that they are barely living, breathing on gills, and are about to fail or have to shut down the company? That the Real Estate Tax Act is inconceivable, inconceivable and poorly prepared today to be so, tomorrow otherwise, we are now negotiating or baranting with rates of taxation, although we have warned you of the same thing at the time of the adoption of the law – you did not want to listen, as always, you were the wisest, only you know, no one else has any wise proposal – and it was already basically an unfair marriage. Every change — now every month we are changing the law to make it better, and every time it is even less honest, you do not want to wait for it to tell the Constitutional Court where it is unconstitutional. We are convinced that he is unconstitutional, so, like many others, we have also proposed to the Constitutional Court or an initiative to the Constitutional Court to examine whether the law is constitutional or unconstitutional. That's irresponsible! That's not how you do it! If you wanted to arrange something that you say all the time, you'd need a much longer transition time. People probably also do not yet realize that what they received as informational calculations is only the first step in this tax, since it is now being charged, the tax of 80% will be charged, next year from 90% and 2016 only 100. Tell people that what they have now received — and this is already three times what they have paid before — is not the last number. That they will pay substantially more next year and even more in 2016. Mrs Vraničnik, you said that people are to blame for not correcting the data on the basis of the information calculations that we have already received in 2010 that people did not go to order. Are you reading any e-mails? We have a whole bunch of messages that people went to arrange when they got an informational calculation in 2010, and today they got the same data, even though they were at GURS at the time, they were waiting, they were already making changes and corrections, etc., and as if they hadn't done it, I don't know how many paths to the Geodetics Authority. Today, one lady writes that she received a tax on a man who had already died for several years already in 2010, that she owned a place that was never owned by her owner, went to GURS and today she again received a place where they were never owners or her husband, who was already dead, because she cannot even manage these things on her own. In short, the number of farmers, working land, the Minister of the Jews is going to campaign for domestic food, etc., Slovenian food, there is going to be money for this, and on the other hand we will certainly hit these farmers that I will even less and that there will be even fewer Slovenian food, etc. In short, a completely unconstitutional policy, completely unfocused, you have no goals. I don't know, just to survive this term, even if then [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Time has run out, including the debaters in this round. I believe there's still a desire to discuss it. Opening login option. Eight panellists reported in this round. The first one is Mr. Marko Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u134	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! The real estate tax is a big fiasco, repeated by the government of Alenka Bratušek. We need to take a few steps back and go in November 2013. Of course, the key objective of this law was to fill the state budget. That's actually what you saw. And the Prime Minister of the Government has placed all coalition parties in a corner by tying her confidant to the budget. And more than your interest in the economy, for citizens and for citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, your existence was in power. Regardless of the warnings of the opposition parties and of the professional public, you have questioned all matters solely because of the fact that the Government's trustee was attached to this document or to the government's president. At that time, we warned the SDS party that this law was lifeless. Why? In Slovenia we have one imbalance between the value of real estate by ownership work and between the revenues that these owners have. But your key issue was to fill the budget with more than 250 million euros. Nothing else! We have also warned you that it is highly likely that the Constitutional Court will reject this law — you did not listen to us! In fact, this government is burdening the economy and burdening taxpayers, and there is no way that Slovenia can get out of this crisis in this way. I think that this law should then involve all parties and listen to our suggestions and comments. In the Slovenian Democratic Party we were prepared to go together, we made our proposals, but the coalition Members of the SD, Positive Slovenia, DeSUS and the National List did not support any of our proposals at that time. Your key was the confidant of the President of the Government. The Constitutional Court has already given its opinion, and there will be another one tomorrow. I suggest, let us not forget: the budget and this law has been bound by the President of the Government by her confidant. This marriage has already fallen on one side — what does this mean? I think it would make sense for the President of the Government to come and explain how he intends to proceed with the matter now. Today, I believe you will not confirm any of our amendments. You are doing something that is not good for Slovenia, is not good for the Slovenian economy, is not good for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. And this law is actually lifeless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Yesterday, we saw how the Government handled the real estate tax problem and the error it had made with the law that was passed last year. The entire Government of the Republic of Slovenia, apart from the ill minister, was sitting here, and none of the representatives of the Government, including the President of the Government, was able to explain the reasons for the amendment of this law, which is before the Constitutional Court by emergency procedure. Despite repeated calls, neither the President of the Government nor any minister present here wanted to explain and argue why the amendment of the law in the Constitutional Court was necessary; and by emergency procedure. None of those who proposed an extension of the agenda, none of the coalition members, none of the leaders of the parliamentary groups spoke to explain the arguments in order to explain why this was necessary. This tells us all about how the Government is going to solve the problems of Slovenian society – without words, without adequate explanations, on the force, on the quick, if not the first time, the second time, if it goes to the Constitutional Court, we will beat the Constitutional Court with a new novel, with some editorial corrections, and thus the Government thinks that it has done its job. Far from it! It's just a sign that you've been solving problems since the appointment of this Prime Minister and you're still not getting systematic, but non-systemic, ad hoc, on the hook, on the hook. I understand that there are some coalition Members who may also be entrepreneurs in support of the Real Estate Tax Act. But they compensate for this through invitations to tender at ministries and receive large subsidies, several times larger than a property tax, and they can then advocate the imposition of this tax because it is paid in a different way for another project, but it is also compensation to support such matters; anyway, no matter what anyone thinks. I think that what the Government has allowed itself to pass through the Constitutional Court is that it cannot wait a day or a few more days to get a ruling from the Constitutional Court on the constitutionality requirement that this is an unprecedented act of constitutional regulation. No, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no. We have not experienced this in the past parliamentary practice. This is the first time that the law, which is just before the proclamation of the sentence of the Constitutional Court, has been amended by the Government and does not even know whether it has hit the point or not, because the sentence of the judgment has not yet been delivered. The Prime Minister of the Government once, in the National Assembly before the Members, in one of the answers to the question, praised that her government would no longer adopt laws that would be unconstitutional. You'll be able to find this by magnetograms so she won't pass laws that are unconstitutional. So, for this law, it is likely that it will be declared unconstitutional in important parts, in key parts. What will the Prime Minister do after the law is declared unconstitutional? Unfortunate vehemen, case-free bloated! And, as it is said, the Prime Minister of the Government has bound a confidant to this marriage. In the event of the repeal of the relevant provisions of the law, the President of the Government should come to the National Assembly for a new confidant. Definitely. Since the basic solution or the underlying basis, calculation, is no longer consistent solutions. There are no more consistent solutions. The budget has changed since the revisions. Even if you have not included in the budget all the commitments that have been made, for example, for deleted and so on, the budget has not stood. The budget does not stand by the fact that you have redesigned certain revenues. You deliberately did it. Now this one, we can say, is a shame with this property tax. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The property tax, as envisioned by our government, is, of course, extremely unfair, unfair. After all, the government understood the feedback it had caused in the Slovenian public, the reactions we had received, because the law actually interfered with the fundamental justice that should be provided by the government. Now the Secretary of State tells us in the beginning that with these changes, the Government is implementing the commitment. I must say that this government has not yet shown a commitment to the Slovenian people; some firm commitment to rule on behalf of the people. The government is forced to do so because it saves its own skin and does not fulfill its commitment. Its commitment, these governments, is to make the most of everything that is vital in the Slovenian nation in the Slovenian people. See, what is the characteristic of a bad government, a characteristic that is directly felt by people in a country? The characteristic is that instead of taking measures that would be able to accelerate prosperity, it increases taxes enormously. And that is exactly what is happening in Slovenia. This, of course, is not a worldwide novelty. We know that the Turkish Empire, as ruler in its subjugated lands, has introduced the so-called haladja. Halaj was intended to destroy the indigenous population; to tax it with tax rates that cannot be paid. In this way, they took property from Serbs, for example, in Serbia and these Balkan countries, these people had to move away, they had to move to their places, and there were legitimate Turks and other depraved people. For one of the criteria was that this harage was forgiven by him who transgressed in Islam. Let the government tell us where our people have to go, what faith they will have after a year, that they will not burden them with this harade in such a way. See, here it's taxed, say, the countryside in every way with enormous rates through these taxes. For example, they are taxed – or I mean, our rurals, our villages, have been in the last 30 years so that it will not start there, farmers have built many new houses with their belongings, because 200, 300 years old cocoons, sometimes wooden ones, and moved into these newly built homes. But they didn't support the old ones, because there's nostalgia, there's some looks, there's some reckoning there's something else coming, but mostly it's been a burglary. And now they're taxed. They are now taxed, these buildings have no economic significance for the farm, but they are taxed, the government has found a way to tax the rural population in the past. There was a colleague here earlier who said that the Minister of the Jews was going on a domestic food campaign. Sorry, it's not about the campaign. Minister Židan has been going on only campaigns and populism for his popularity for the past six months, and he is actually talking about domestic food, but he is gaining popularity in cities, and he is destroying rural areas and agriculture, because he knows that there are a lot of voters in cities and he is gathering political points and that is unacceptable. Unacceptable! These cases in agriculture, health care and in all areas of this government are [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u139	Mr. Stanko Stepišnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u140	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Your Honor! The real estate tax, I have already said many times that it is very good, positive, targeted, and tax rates are what Parliament, together with expertise, must find consensus and common satisfaction. This property tax replaces four taxes. At the same time, we are regulated by the real estate register. So many years, so much money as we've given to edit this register or real estate, and when we find out today, there's still a tremendous amount of error. I think it's right that we introduced this girl to introduce this tax, because at least we'll get to the regulated real estate register. Of course tax rates, this is a matter of the current situation, if you want the profession, the policy and the financial situation as well. On the other hand, how much we want social states. The budget is what Parliament adopts. The budget has expenditure and revenue, and when we adopt the budget, we also accept social: public education, public health and so on. We must always ask ourselves where we will get the money to secure the public sector we want, such public health care, such public education, social activities, the military, the police and what must be in a country so that it can work normally. Of course, on the other hand, we want as much revenue as possible. The more income we receive from the economy and the economy must have such conditions that it can create a newly created value and this new created value, added value or otherwise call a social gross product, is only 35.5 billion in Slovenia. This is available so that we can then divide among all these factors that are important for the functioning of the country. If we look at that Austria has a higher added value to the employee, EUR 96 000 to the employee, and Slovenia has EUR 37 000 to the employee, then we can see that we can give three times less to the public sector, to all social transfers and so on, so we must work very hard to increase this added value in the economy. This means that we would have economic growth. At the time of the takeover of this government, Alenka Bratušek, on 20 March last year, economic growth was minus 4.7 compared to the quarter of last year. The end of the second quarter was minus 1.5%, the end of the third quarter was minus 0.6%, the end of the fourth quarter, and last quarter last year was economic growth plus 2.1%. Clearly, if we are to say that this country is somehow out of recession, this economic growth must be positive for two or three quarters, so that we can say it's from the recession. It is clear that we are always asking ourselves then, and even the opposition is saying, what do we have citizens from now on? Yes, the citizens will have some of it by delay, at least half a year, if not a year. And in order to increase this added growth, added value in the economy, then we also need to adjust tax rates. This tax rate may be slightly, I would say, too large for the burden of the economy, which is why I also agree as an economic operator, as a long-standing director, as a minority co-owner of a company with 200 employees, 100 engineers, and also receive some subsidy for the purchase of a new machine, a new value from which the state gets back within 3 months through the operation of all that it submits, because such a subsidy invested in the company is slightly different from the one that some get for writing the papers and is lost in those papers, so this also needs to be different. Not the branch regime we are sitting on, and we are returning some of this money that we are collecting through the highly added value of companies that are export-oriented and highly developed and have highly demanding technological products. No regime of this branch, let's support it. Mr Tanko, you often misinterpret, and this is very wrong to direct the Slovenian nation in the wrong direction. This property tax is properly adjusted because it combines three, four taxes, will regulate the real estate register, and we will probably still have to talk about tax rates, harmonise and seek some compromise so that we will all be satisfied. And even with the amendments that you have tabled, it will probably be necessary [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. Stephnik. Mr. Joseph Horvath is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary of State! I'll proceed where the esteemed colleague of the Mags has finished. Stanko Stepišnik, about the tax rates. He said and called on all of us that we need to harmonise or that Parliament needs to harmonise with regard to tax rates. We offered our hand a few months ago when this law came to Parliament, and we were not heard, nor at any branch. Of course, I agree and add what we say to the Christian Democrats, that the best social policy is the policy that creates a good business environment for the development of the economy. And something else, with regard to increased economic activity from 20 March last year to the end of last year. Madam President of the Government, I asked Mrs Alenka Bratušek as follows: "Mrs. Alenka Bratušek, what are the measures of your government that have contributed to the increase in this economic activity?" She couldn't say a single reason, she couldn't say a single thing! So it's all a case or maybe because we like to talk about the former government, the previous government's actions have been supportive. And, colleagues and colleagues, if I logically conclude, I find that it has been or is a record number of requests for a constitutional review of the Real Estate Tax Act and that this is certainly a very serious matter for this government and this coalition, and if I establish a correlation or link between the Real Estate Tax Act, the 2014 budget of the Republic of Slovenia and Alenka Bratušek, then I can logically conclude and continue that tomorrow's decision of the Constitutional Court can also be understood as a confidant or non-truster of Alenka Bratušek – indirectly. We know that a confidential or non-confidential person is voted here not to be decided by the Constitutional Court but indirectly by the Constitutional Court. And if we are talking about moral standards, then Alenka Bratušek will also have to respond to the decisions of the Constitutional Court. How can I understand, colleagues and colleagues, on the one hand, the indebtedness of businesses – we discussed on this content on Tuesday at the evening session at the initiative of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, on the other hand, we have the inclusion of the Real Estate Tax Act, which promises the development of the Slovenian economy, especially the small economy. And in today's printed newspaper, we can read an open letter honoring a valuable Slovenian entrepreneur and owner named Our Country. Read that for yourself! I don't want to do any commercials to any newspaper, but Mr. Franci Pliberšek is certainly a worthy entrepreneur and what he wrote should give the opinion of the Slovenian government. My call and my desire is to actually step together, both coalition and opposition – probably the opposition knows what and probably the opposition hears in the sent-in offices and on the ground. Only together can we make a real estate tax law that will be acceptable, which will also be stimulating, I repeat, tax and must also be stimulating. As far as tourism is concerned, with me, I already said that on the committee, a gentleman from Moravian Toplice came to the office. You and your wife have four suites. Let me remind you, it gives you breakfast night, gross, of course, 18 euros a night. They received an informational calculation of the tax, each of thousands of Euro300s. So much for stimulating the development of tourism. And another thing is that if we step together, something can be done, there is also evidence of the Tuesday's meeting of the EU Affairs Committee, when the great ministers have hidden themselves as secretaries of state, Mrs Vraničarovo, Mrs Jerinovo and Mrs Kertova. However, the EU Affairs Committee unanimously adopted its conclusions and pressured the Government to provide funding for cohesion projects. Well, you can!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. Horvath. I would like to inform you at this point that we have just received a notice that the coalition has tabled an amendment, which has also been published on the e-club. We continue the debate. Mr Brane Golubovic is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u144	Have a nice hello to you all. To sum up what my colleague said before me that we are killing our country, let me say that in 2005, when we entered the EU, we lost all our vision. Slovenia had a vision of joining the EU, NATO, taking over the euro. When we realized this, the vision was gone, everyone could do what he wanted, we had in some way a credit euphoria of the biblical dimensions, how the Slovenian economy was indebted, and all governments were kind of wandering aimlessly. When it comes to the confidence of the President of the Government, who tied her to the budget, then the President of the Government also believed that the required return on Slovenian bonds, which was 7% a year ago, would fall below 4%, even slightly more. And today we are talking about that the required return on Slovenian bonds is below 4%. And yes, that is also the success of this government. Some say it didn't come from itself, but it was the success of this government. If nothing else has calmed the situation. Now to the amendment of colleagues and colleagues from SDS. I would personally support your amendment if we went to the economy alone and went to 0.50 or 0.60%. However, because you have tactfully made an amendment so that it simply cannot be supported, because with your adopted amendment, the congregations would receive even less than they received from the 2012 building land compensation. I believe that this amendment, which has now been mentioned that the coalition has tabled it, is the amendment that speaks of the economy falling to 0,60 % – tax, but I have not seen it, but I know what some of us demanded within the coalition, such as Matevž Frangež, me, Alojz Potočnik, Stanko Stepišnik, when we took up this change. [[…]] Let me say something else about taxes. Unfortunately, in these 20 years we have also done that Slovenians and Slovenians view taxes as something that chokes us, not as something that they can give us, some good that we provide public services and public infrastructure. Unfortunately, we do not view taxes as such and it is on us all; those who are 11 months in this Parliament and those who are not – who have been in this Parliament for 18 years without shame saying so, despite the state of the country in March 2013 I like to be listened to, because then they also comment on things. [[...]] Basically, I had to change my performance a little, because I was sure that the prevention of those most responsible would not succeed in reducing the tax rate, so I am finally happy that we succeeded. Let me just add that. When you say we can't do anything together. Do you remember what the tax rates were at the beginning and when some of us and the opposition warned that they were also significantly too high in agriculture? Agricultural buildings have been defined by 0.50% and today they are at 0.30. The forest and agricultural land are 0.50%, today there are 0.15 and 0.7 – 0.07 forests. So some things we managed to do together, and some things we also admitted that we made a mistake and tried to fix them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u146	Yeah, thanks again. I've just looked at this amendment, yours covers only business, industrial property, and the reduction is negligible. So it's a beautiful correction that you could say that Alenčica gave a little botox; but with this botox, the Slovenian economy will not live any better. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, things will need to be substantially more. I said earlier that you created chaos and numbered two elements. Well, there's a third that's important. You've also created legal chaos with this law. There are so many complications in this law and its implementation that it is quite clear that not the government, not the government, not the ones concerned, have not been prepared in any way to implement it and you have been warned about it. This is something that should also be taken into account from the point of view of the constitutional assessment when adopting this law. Now it's a big joke. He's already been partially alerted by my colleague, and I'll be more direct. Tomorrow the Constitutional Court, I hope to bet it, and as a Gorenjec I have not yet lost one bet, has repealed at least some article of this law. It will be repealed in part or in whole. This will be a very interesting event, ladies and gentlemen, because I must remind you again, this is the law on which the President of the Government has bound her confidant. She forced his admission with her confidant, and the coalition's cylindrical was blindly hitting everyone, despite total opposition and obstruction of the opposition. Which means that tomorrow, at the constitutional level, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia will give an untrust to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with Alenka Bratušek at the head and to the entire coalition that voted this law because you were warned about all these things in time. I hope you're all aware of what will happen tomorrow. I must say that I do not understand those, especially my colleague, who works in the economy himself or worked, who, however, advocates such a law as it is. The law, as it is, is a developmental disaster for the economy. And no beautiful correction, especially what you have just proposed, can substantially change that. It should go in the direction that everything that is used for the economy, for economic purposes, is governed by the fact that this tax is completely exempt; for a simple reason, because it opens up jobs, because it creates other revenues that are then subject to tax. This is actually a way of double taxation, which then affects all those who want to create added value and thus becomes Slovenia as a whole, all entrepreneurship is less competitive than abroad. Because of one lousy tax, which you will collect once again, a bunch of companies will close their doors, lose their jobs, and people will end up at the employment agency and come to you, and now give your social assistance if you're so socially sensitive, and you'll go back to hiring credits, and the enchanted spiral will get worse and worse and it will spin even faster. Like a tornado. Because about the same status as a tornado this government has in its conduct when it comes to the economy. For this reason, I must say that it is very funny when those of you who have had contact with the economy say that we are decommissioning the economy, and in the same breath you say that you are opposed to an amendment that we have not proposed, but which would seriously burden the economy at least with this tax. You've already burdened him so much, people of God, that the economy can't breathe anymore. You do not see the trends in the Slovenian economy at all. The whole of Europe is now covered by the lungs, they are making economic progress everywhere, very quickly, and in Slovenia it is not going anywhere. And if one month is a little positive, then they're already jumping, and now we're out of the crisis. We are not, men of God, our speed of progress is significantly lower than those before us, and they already have a better starting base! This is because you send on an economic sprint because today entrepreneurship is, people, entrepreneurs, so you put new and new weights on their feet in the form of new and new excessive taxes. This is where the end is to be made, and today is the right time. For those who advocate this law, and say that it is good, and proper, and rightly directed, are greatly mistaken. I hope you're at least feeling divine, in line with that Mae West river that said, "It's human to be wrong, but you feel divine!" And today was a mistake in this law, and even when it was proposed and adopted, much too much. This law needs to be abolished.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Once again, I would like to inform you that the amendment is expected to be corrected. Now it is also in this round, Mr Zvone Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u148	Thank you very much. This meeting will not be concluded today, it will continue tomorrow and also next week. Yesterday, no one on the part of government representatives, not the Minister responsible for finance or the President of the Government, wanted to explain publicly why it was necessary to discuss this amendment of the law and to decide today, which is, at least, inappropriate, unhygienic, given that its constitutionality will be announced by the Constitutional Court tomorrow at a public meeting. As if the Government wanted to influence the decision of constitutional judges in some way, it did not want to say it publicly. At least, it's inappropriate, because there will always be such speculations or other speculations. But no matter how the Constitutional Court decides, this law needs to be abolished and if this government does not abolish it, it will be abolished by the Government, which will be led by the Slovenian Democratic Party, because with these amendments that are now coming, even more confusing at the table, it proves that the confusion in it is perfect. You, by correcting parts of the law, when you put some reduction in the burden on the economy during the debate, from 0.75 to 0.59%, and you say that you will fix it now, you prove that the confusion is complete. Perfect! How can a law be implemented where the government itself does not know what it wants? Where until yesterday he says that it is not possible to do so, today during the sitting alone, after colleague Visjak has publicly highlighted the responsibility of the current Minister for the Economy to be aware of what he is saying and if he speaks publicly about the need to lower these burdens, then he should not do anything to step down, and then the amendment will arrive, which will all of a sudden lower the burden. Until then, nothing could be done. When we discussed hours and hours that the taxation system was inappropriate and warned about this distinction between residents – non-residents, there was nothing that could be done. After hundreds of thousands of people have been given informational calculations, and after it has been shown what this confusion and this confusion really is, it has been possible to correct and introduce a rate of 0.50 to 0.15 overnight. And to this day we have not received a clear response from the Minister of Finance, what are the financial effects and consequences of this fact! As we have not received a credible answer to this day, how much is the final profit or calculation of the information tax by type of taxpayers or taxes. It means what comes with 0,40, what comes with 0.15, what comes with 0,50 by type of real estate. That wasn't there! It was a number that spoke of 400 and several million euros, which I personally ask and do not believe. And I don't believe it, because the lies that have been told by the competent minister, President of the Government, have so far been innumerable. Until this number is justified in public records and publicly presented to the public and to the National Assembly, we will not believe it, because it is impossible to say that the amendment of the law from 0.50 to 0.15 will now amount to some 15 or 20 million euros. On such an important issue, all of this indicates that the Government does not have clear direction, what and how to remedy this confusion caused by the Real Estate Tax Act. In this situation, the only smart solution is to abolish this law and maintain this year's existing compensation for the use of building land and other taxes, which are, in a financial sense, practically irrelevant to the spread of deficits in the state budget. Today, there have also been some concrete examples of the confusion in this tax. People have been calling in my office. For example, the elderly lady came to show this calculation, where a tax for the train station was calculated at 0,40. Today, it has been said that someone who owns his own bread by passing on apartments has received a tax of EUR 2 times a thousand 300. How much will the Bužekian tourist farm, which has been estimated at 32 000 euros according to GURS records, ask you, and there are five million euro mortgages on it after the same land book deposit? This government is literally playing with this people in this tax and more in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u149	Thank you very much. This round of discussions is thus concluded. I believe that, in view of all the developments, the debate will continue. Opening login option. Here you go. There are 6 reported debaters in this round. The first is Mr Marko Pavlišič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u150	Thank you for your word. I am pleased that the coalition has finally matured the idea that high taxes are the problem of this country and that we must take a final step on this issue. [[…]] [[Applause]] Thanks for the applause. [[…]] Some of us talked about this a long time ago, for example, when we proposed the adoption of the raised VAT, we were talking about it very clearly and loudly here, but we were not heard. The next such event was a lucky tax, even then we made it very clear that the higher taxes, where they take us and where they do not take us, were not successful. We have already talked about this on the committee, and we will also talk at this meeting in the case of evaluators, where we are reintroducing some new contributions, and I hope there will be a little more listening than there has been here. Certainly, the coalition clearly shows that it has begun to move in the right direction and that we must do something to make our environment more competitive. However, we must be aware of the consequences of such a decision. In fact, if we cut taxes and do not interfere with the expenditure level at the same time, we are only increasing our budget deficit and thereby increasing our debt. This is exactly what we've been having the biggest problems in this country lately. Debt is increasing and interest is increasing, which is then paid for this debt; and more interest when we pay, less money remains in the budget for the other urgently needed things that my colleagues have talked about before me and why we are even collecting taxes. In short, if we're just going to say hop today and we're not going to jump, and the fact that we're going to jump means that we're going to have to take reforms urgently, that we're going to have to do something at the spending level, if we don't do this step, then today it's just a cheap pier. That is why I hope, colleagues, that we are aware of what we will do with this amendment, what we will confirm, and when we next talk about where we need to cut down at the expenditure level, that we will also adopt this unanimously. In the Civil Gazette we are absolutely prepared for this; I hope you are, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. Pavlishich. Mr Ljubo Žnidar is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u152	Honourable Vice-President, Government Representative, colleagues and colleagues! I am very pleased myself, as is my previous speaker, who stressed that the government coalition has matured. I would say that he is matured very quickly today; he matures very quickly in the wake of a three-hour debate by opposition Members, that this law is inappropriate, burdensome for the economy and that after three hours they have understood and thus reduced the rate of taxation for the economy by 0.26%. I'd say this session should take some time. In the next three hours, however, I hope that you will mature by at least as much as you are now in these three hours. I therefore propose that this meeting lasts a long time and this will be a major contribution to the Slovenian economy, so that this economy is indeed burdened. I also believe that this law of constitutional judgment, which is supposed to be given information on Friday, will not survive, as the law points out the right to the quiet nationalisation of the Slovenian countryside. We know that agricultural areas, according to the government proposal, are quite a few times, ten times, some more than a hundred times more taxed than they are now. And we know that in rural areas there is not enough capital on agricultural holdings, there is not enough resources to be able to pay all these taxes. The Slovenian economy, entrepreneurship and craft do not live within the Slovenian framework, live in a European, European common country, live on the European market and seek its opportunity in Europe and everywhere in the world. With such burdens as the Government comes with them, the Slovenian economy, entrepreneurship and turnover are uncompetitive in their business market. The law threatens the peaceful age of older real estate owners, whom we know to have low incomes, and if we say they built themselves, of course they also paid taxes both for material and for work, I would say that in all this long period with taxes they have already overpaid their property once, twice or even more. This is an extraordinary burden for older citizens who will have to seriously ask themselves in the future what their path will be, what will be their future direction with real estate. The law also takes a great deal of autonomy from the congregations. We know that municipalities in Slovenia are very different: they are large, they are small, they are also very dependent on their geographical position; in short, the differential is extremely large. The municipalities had their autonomy to manage their own development strategy by their own means, by their own environment and by their own vision of further development. With this government proposal of the Real Estate Tax Act, this autonomy is actually taken away from the municipality. Furthermore, the law establishes the harsh centralisation of Slovenia. We know where the concentrated capital is; the capital is concentrated where the jobs are, this is mainly in the Slovenian centres themselves, the capital is pooled here and this is the planned placement of the centralisation of capital into the Slovenian centres themselves. Last but not least, he would mention that the law also threatens families, especially large families that are not treated in an unequal way by the size of residential areas. I'm talking about multiple families that this marriage has somehow bypassed and do not have the right status as families with more children do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. Žnidar. Mr. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! The Real Estate Tax Act will continue and the effects of this tax will likely be irreparable for some time in case of accidental adoption, and even if it were to go through the Constitutional Court. Comrade Jože Jerovšek spoke of excessive taxation, including the historical tax that was called haraj, and if the taxpayers cannot pay such a tax with their normal operation or with their normal income, then they can actually pay this tax, so to speak, from their savings, from their assets, they must sell the property, they must reduce the savings and so on. According to the way in which properties were built in Slovenia in the second half of the previous century, according to the incomes of people living in these properties today and, of course, according to the value of these properties, we can then find out that we have a Slovenian harage today written by the government of Alenka Bratušek and which protagonists of this tax are constantly accompanying us in the National Assembly. This, of course, means the following: it will not only have social effects, it will also have economic and financial effects. Financial effects in relation to not being able to pay people tax, not being able to pay the tax on entrepreneurs, not being able to pay the tax on farmers, and therefore some assets will also have to sell or sell it off. This means that the price in some shorter period for these properties will be low and will actually fall. The question is, who will buy these properties, who will pick up the Slovenian countryside, who will pick up Slovenian peasant tourism. It is likely or may happen that this capital will also come from abroad, including from perhaps tax havens, and will pick up the whole matter. Ownership in Slovenia will change, and perhaps this is precisely the goal of this government, that this government simply has too much to do with the GURS with so many taxpayers – we know that 90% of people, citizens and citizens of all-year estate owners are also in Slovenia. This is completely different in other countries. Perhaps it is that these properties are sold, that people move into some other property, here, or abroad, or elsewhere, and that they simply concentrate on property ownership over a small group of people who will have power, have money, and who will probably, when it comes to cheap real estates, actually use these properties so that, among other things, it will also have such an impact on the government of Alenka Bratušek, and simply this impact will be such that the tax will no longer and the whole project, the system will actually be realized in Slovenia. This may also be due to the fact that, after all, the law itself stipulates that those who cannot pay for their property will be transferred to the country or congregation, and the congregation will have to manage it again, likely to sell them, and so on and so forth. In short, I would also like to point out that with such over-taxation, you actually have an impact on the whole wealth situation in the country, irrespective of the smiles of the government representatives, because things are probably still quite serious. In this regard, of course, it is also necessary to deal with this, including legal matters and, of course, the confidentiality; in short, it is further.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Möderndorfer, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Madam President. I have a procedural proposal, given that you have clearly observed that it is one and the same debaters, that we are already going through a series of rounds and that we are really talking about the same things, and that one and the same Members, is more than obvious that it is a delay. That is why I propose a procedural decision to agree on, I don't care, we can all do it again, but let us be very clear that we will discuss and then conclude these rounds of debate. Of course you can enable this, I have no problem with time, because of me it can be up to two in the morning, only I would like to not repeat the same things on the same subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u157	It is true, Mr Möderndorfer, that your proposal is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If I understand you correctly, you have proposed that we vote that every debater discuss this amendment or this content only once. Is that right? Then, of course, I will put this to a vote, but after this list of debaters is exhausted. For the time being, we have three more applications and I give the floor first to Mr Stank Stepišnik, then to the other two, and then we vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u158	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. Respected and respected! I would like to speak to Mr Jozet Horvath about the question when he said how economic growth had taken place. That's all there is to it — isn't it? More than a few of them do something about it, and I hope he hears it on the radio. Our President, Alenka Bratušek, has repeated this several times, but has not been so exactally focused on this, but she has made it very clear that it is private consumption, state consumption, to export investment in Slovenia, and these are by some method factors that determine the social gross product in Slovenia. Clearly, if you want to raise something, including economic growth, you need to have very good control of the structure and then also mathematics as far as that structure is concerned. Private consumption rose slightly, as a result of the 20 % increase in investment, public consumption is slightly negative, exports have risen by 4.7 % and is growing all the time, so there has also been a lot of support invested in this part of the economy – as you know, exports amount to 26 billion, 21 billion productive, 5 billion service, especially in the future that this service is going to be much higher, and some small stocks also have an impact. And economic growth started last year, as a result of the great activity of this government. It signed more than a thousand European funds contracts of EUR 800 million for various projects, water pipelines, cleaning plants and so on, EUR 600 million was given in support of the economy, a loan fund of EUR 500 million was made to the SID Bank for loans to all companies, assets, technological renovations, development and research, and a large amount of guarantees and guarantees were given primarily for interest on small and micro enterprises. Secondly, a reduction in the tax rate – this is not the result of speeches. That's the result of the calculations. And when it's calculated quickly, people, experts, calculate that we can save something on the expenditure side, but we have to get something on the revenue side. See if the added value in Slovenia increases by 1%, the value added tax for the country's income is 3 billion. That means we get 30 million. For this we must all fight to make the added value greater, but not only in companies, not only in the hospital, not only in education, but also in Parliament. In Parliament, we have to create added value, not negative value, and some speech that causes nothing. It is therefore up to everyone to raise the social gross product in this country over the added value. I think we could, because that's why we were elected, we weren't chosen for anything else. I think that this property tax, including the regulation of tax rates, must be the result of professional decisions [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u159	Just a little attention, please. [[…]] Dear colleagues, just a little attention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u160	and clear calculations. [[…]] I guess I could say a little more about how hard we are when we talk about how much work is too expensive for us in Slovenia. We all misspeak, as we have been saying, saving rather than economic growth. Now that we are talking about economic growth, we must all focus on the added value. Not that there's too much work to do. Work costs are added value. We have at a low technological level products, products. When we raise this, the cost of work in products will increase, there will be more knowledge of engineers, doctors of science and so on, and the added value will increase rapidly and there will be a lot more money available for the social. But if we try to make this cost of work – we know that it is too high – we will reduce the number of people per company – yes, because in the end we will have nothing left, the social product will be instead of 35 billion 20 billion. However, the social product is growing if the cost of work is rising. But not the cost of work based on credits, but the cost of work based on real value, real value creation. However, what happened in 2008 happened in the public sector was that for a billion wages it grew on the basis of loans rather than on the basis of real value created. And that's what we're paying for today.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. Stephnik. Is it Mr. Franz Breznik's turn? Can I ask your respectable colleagues for a little attention?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u162	Thank you, Mr Stepišnik, I think this was a unique speech. I will suggest to my colleagues in the West that Germany accept you as economic minister, and that you take the entire fleet of FDV together, and you will make a new school reform for them, because I believe that this was total fraud. Let's do it in a row. First thing, look at the first results of Umar, what they're talking about. Who has generated the economic growth that you are now discussing? All those who have been in Germany, Austria, Italy, which is our second largest export partner, have done well, carried out reforms, raised their production, and our subcontractors now receive larger orders, respected Mr Stepišnik. They were independent of you. But they weren't from Mr. Misic when they shared money as a minister in Slovenian companies that came from your logs. Look, it was on those guys. Another thing you might be interested in, because it was a total delusion. Umar actually let only exports know. Now let's see what happened during your government. First, raise the lower and higher VAT rates. See the results in the last quarter of the last year, to which he favoured raising the upper and lower VAT rates. Despite the aggressive tax administration policy, we collected 5% of taxes and excise duties last year. Five percent less, respectable colleagues! For what? I was talking about Laffer's curve, I was talking about the so-called breaking point, I was talking about the reduced purchasing power of the Slovenes and the Slovenes, and I was talking about the foreigners turning. Foreigners started shopping in Slovenian, including shopping malls, less fuel was bought, less excise taxes were spent on cigarettes, alcohol and so on. This is the easy money the Slovenians would get without us creating new cities. Only with an optimized tax policy, respected colleague Stepišnik. And you've done nothing for economic growth! You have this to thank, you can go to Europe and thank Merkl and the Austrian Prime Minister and the former Italian and all the others who carried out the reforms. This is also linked to the level of Slovenian bonds. People are aware, and investors, that we still have an export economy and we are relatively good here. But our exports are always subordinate to whether foreigners around us, our biggest partners, will make certain reforms and that our exports can grow in this area. We don't have this own absorption because we don't have this purchasing power, and we encourage it, Comrade Stepišnik. Now that you are talking about another 130,000 unemployed – what have you done for the 130 thousand unemployed? The Austrians save us at least 15,000 unemployed; at least 15,000, look! And this year, when you were talking about added value in your speech – added value! Tell me, what is the effect of Slovenian engineers and technicians in this society? Are there commentators in public debates? What place are they in? Who's the commentator for everyone? Right under this government, although we have 20,000 young people with social education, with higher education on the stock exchange, this government has expanded again, increased entry into social studies. With this we'll add added value to this account?Oh, my God! Germany always says: we are grateful to our engineers, 150 years of tradition, we are grateful to our engineers and technicians. We are grateful to them for adding value, and we are grateful for the work of the top socialists who added brands, top sellers who packed this in real products, where, for example, Porsche has the highest added value in Germany, for example, on one product. Car, Carrera 911, for example, the production value of EUR 12 000, the sales value of the tax, not 22 of us, but in Germany there are some EUR 105 000. Then these are the products, but there's 80 years of heavy engineering in the back. Difficult evolutions, not social ones, but, above all, nature, especially in this part. You didn't do anything! The only measure that we are trying to create today is a zero rate to put at least the first pillar of some normal business environment and to give all the other partners in our vicinity to let them know: we have a zero rate for business facilities, come and start investing in the country. We don't have our own resources, we have a whole bunch of tycoons who have been given moratoriums on 280 million debt at the time. We could talk about this too, but I'm running out of time, so you didn't do anything. You didn't do anything. One more time.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u163	Of course, Mr Stepišnik, you are now indeed entitled to the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u164	Mr. Beznik, for it is good to listen to you; only, you know, have I met so much nonsense in my life, indeed. But I like it very much if someone speaks correctly, because this is what the Slovenian public listens to. And you're talking about added value. What's the added value, because you've said everything wrong. The added value is creativity, innovation, ingenuity, product making, this is a product or service that is desirable, marketable and competitive. Therefore, there is a need to invest a lot of innovation, knowledge, research and development in the product, and this is why last year our government focused on a third systemic measure to increase knowledge in final products. Slovenia's sales of final products and final products must be made technologically at a higher level: more selling, more interesting for final customers. And you can only do that if you put more money into development and research. Even with subsidies, including subsidies and Slovenia, it innovates only 15% of its products and because it does not innovate other products, Slovenia's competitiveness on the world scale is declining. Also for other reasons, the environment and so on. What will happen to us if we do not accelerate, I would say, the support of countries in businesses to motivate them through their developmental research groups to more innovate products? We will always have poorer competitiveness, poorer added value and less money in the budget for life functions and those functions that are needed to live normally from social, health, education and so on. That is why we must all try to put knowledge first and foremost into final products. However, we have made a hugely beautiful development and research infrastructure in the last ten years, from centres of excellence, various laboratories, entrepreneurial centres, zones and so on, but this is empty. We invest knowledge inside for our own drive instead of getting final good, salesable products. That is why you too, Mr Breznik, because you have been working primarily abroad and you understand this correctly, say it to the Slovenian public, and we must all fight for the added value of more knowledge to come into the final products, not that this knowledge hangs somewhere. Slovenia gives 2.7 per cent of the social gross product for development and research, some public money, a lot of private money, and here we must all insist that this money goes more into development and research. But it has to come into the final products we sell, not the stock, or it depends on the air, or the labs, or the papers that stack up to the ceiling, and you can make the hole go through. We have to fight against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. Stephnik. Before I give my word to the last debater in this round, I inform you that we have already tabled an amendment on the e-club, as previously announced. Mr. Fox, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u166	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, allow me to say a very good morning to 90% of the members of this coalition. An hour ago, there were only three coalition MPs, and this side was empty, so, "Good morning." But it is sad that for the good morning you come with such an amendment that you have come with, the last version, unfortunately I have not seen. This is 0,59 % for business and industrial properties other than energy properties. Why not 0.5933333? If you are making a fool of yourself, go to the full line of this mockery, not only from Slovenian people, but also from Slovenian craftsmen and Slovenian economists. Clearly, however, DeSUS is again the weakest member of this government. For what we have proposed is a zero rate for nursing homes, DeSUS obviously did not have enough power in this coalition to reduce something for nursing homes and make fun of them, as everyone else is obviously making fun of this level of 0.59. In short, it's a bartering of this government that reminds us of strange hypocrisy. I must say that, on the one hand, I regret that there are no ministers of Omerzel, Jew, Viranta, Mr Dragonjo, who are likely to receive an hour of truth tomorrow through the Constitutional Court, and unfortunately here we have our colleague, the former minister who made for the economy – what? 0.75% real estate tax for business and industrial buildings and for surfaces and VAT hikes! Yes, the Slovenian economy and Slovenian economists, probably not only Slovenian, but also foreign economists, as the predecessor said, want such ministers. In short, I would like to ask you, Madam Secretary of State, if they come from the ranks of your coalition partners, such — once again I will allow myself to say — wins, I am interested, given that today or when the opposition comes with any proposal, you say that no, no, no, the financial structure is failing us. I want to know when you've always talked about how things go wrong, if we suggest anything, but I want to know where you're going to get the money or how much money you need to reduce your business and industrial property taxes to 0.59. We'll be able to read in some media tomorrow, so there won't be another 1.5 billion debt, but it will be for two billion, because you don't care about the future, because you don't care about the present either. In short, I look forward to tomorrow, to the decisions of the Constitutional Court, and from this place I ask the President, the Government and its ministers: if tomorrow the whole law falls in the Constitutional Court – given that they are bound by the budget and the trustee – whether we can expect an hour after the Constitutional Court's decision to withdraw the whole government, or whether we can expect it in the coming hours, after the Constitutional Court is very likely that certain articles will be repealed, the resignation or the Minister of Economy, the Minister of Local Self-Government, the Minister of Agriculture, the Minister of Infrastructure, because I believe that the Minister of Finance probably has no serious intention of going to the National Assembly and Slovenia. Rather, he seeks abroad a debt on the account of all those of my generation and the younger ones who will be paid by the stupidity of this law and the stupidity of this government. Madam Secretary of State, do you have financial coverage for this amendment? If everything else is impossible, it's impossible. As impossible as this law is.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u168	In addressing the amendment tabled by the SDS Group, I drew attention to the financial implications of €177 million and €120 million in municipal cash registers after the transition period. With the proposed arrangement, tax collection will be lower by an estimate of EUR 32 million, and this deficit will also have to be covered in the framework of the state budget during the transitional period. Given that the Government has committed itself not to increase tax burdens, it will be necessary to find possible savings. This is a sum that is more manageable than the amount of 177 million under the allocation or savings authority of the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u169	Thank you very much. A replica? Wait a minute, do you have a replica of the execution of the secretary of state? [[…]] Here you go. He was obviously discussing the content, content and respectable Mrs Župevčev, if you read the Rule of Procedure, then you will know that the name mentioned is not necessary for the replica. [[…]] Here you go, Mr. Shircel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u170	Of course, we are also talking about the content of the financial impact of this tax, and the fact is that the motive of this tax and the reason for the introduction of this tax in general is that citizens and citizens have better and larger services at local level. Greater services at local level mean, of course, that local communities receive more money and all countries worldwide use this tax to finance local communities. Except in Slovenia; in Slovenia we want more and in Slovenia we want 200 million more for the state budget. This tax is not a source of the state budget and it is not professional to be a source, because the only reason to introduce it is an increased service, a better service at local community level. Consider the OECD countries’ financing of this tax — often on international comparisons by the Government. See what the Austrians finance with this tax — the local community! Even compared to the adoption of the Slovenian Democratic Party's amendment, local communities would receive even more money than they would receive with compensation for the use of building land. Because now they're supposed to get 410 million, they said 170 million, and now they're getting it, I think, between 190 million and 200 million euros. This means that 10, 20% more local communities would receive money and this could enable citizens and citizens to have better quality services at local community level. But if this tax is used as a fissure, as a fissure for the state budget to be filled, which is of course wrong and unprofessional and it is not in other countries, then we will move on to these problems in which we are. We have problems today because we do not have a covered budget on the revenue side and we have problems today because we do not have a covered budget on the expenditure side. The Prime Minister of the Government has tied a confidant to this budget, which has already fallen apart today. At the annual level, you have 500 million more expenditure if you look at the annual level. You have 500 million more today, but you have revenue at the level of 2012. This will, of course, be the budget – we are just waiting for you to come to the National Assembly with a budget rebalancing; with the one you claimed to be an alpha and an omega and that she is the binding confidant of the President of the Government to this budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u171	Procedurally, Mr. Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u172	Mr. Tanko, you know you need to wait. The order is clear. Look, Madam President, after article 70, it is more than clear what a replica is. Your explanation was not the most appropriate, because this was not the answer to a misinterpreted debate and I therefore suggest that, otherwise, because I see that this will now occur, I have already made one proposal to stop this delay in order to comply with the rules of procedure. This, of course, applies to you – this proposal. But for everyone else, because they don't understand, there's no help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u173	Thank you very much for your warning, Mr. Möderndorfer. Mr Stepišnik's last replica, which was intended for Mr Breznik, was more controversial. I am pleased that the debate is so substantive and I would like to see the number of Members and Members present in the National Assembly always before the vote. Is there another wish before the vote? It's a replica. Here you go, Mr. Tanko. It's a replica. Tell me who you're replicating. Madam Secretary of State. Here you go. Mr. Tanko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u174	Thank you very much. I hope that I am a Member of the same reference as Mr Stanko Stepišnik and that the Secretary of State may also be replicated because she is not a Minister. The Secretary of State just said earlier about some of the effects of the changed solutions that are now coming to the table. Yesterday we heard a reply from the President of the Government, who said nicely that, as regards the public sector and the intervention in the public sector and the President or the State Secretary, she said that it would be necessary to cut into the budget and, if I understand correctly, the budget covers the public sector, the President of the Government said very clearly: you will not see this film in my time. Now I ask the Secretary of State, which claim: or yesterday's President of the Government, when she said that there would be no intervention in the public sector, because if we want to compensate, first of all, what you proposed by equalizing residents and non-residents or owners of these properties, and now what you have made easier for business facilities, then that is €50.70 million. I now ask whether yesterday's statement by the President of the Government holds that there will be no intervention in the public sector and that which covers the budget. Does the Secretary of State keep what the Secretary of State has said that savings will have to be found in the part covered by the budget? So the President of the Government is talking about the fact that saving is no longer possible, and the Secretary of State is now saying exactly what is related to intervention measures in implementing the budget or cutting the rights of budget users. Look, if the government is going to some kind of system, some kind of policy, then it has to be consistent, and I understand that the lower officials coming to the National Assembly to defend solutions are saying the same as the President of the Government that they have the same position as the President of the Government to the same state budget. It is unacceptable for today's State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance to correct yesterday's statement by the President of the Government without in any way having happened, except for the amendment of coalition parliamentary groups, which I do not know if he is in any way in line with the Government. In a way that we accept solutions in the National Assembly, solutions are not harmonised and I am very interested in the position of the Secretary of State, whether this amendment is also in line with the Government; or [[…]] [[a sign for the end of the debate.]] Over. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u175	Thank you very much. You opened an interesting question in the context of the replica, which was somehow exceeding the replica, but you have a replica to the replica [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] May I, honourable Members, have your attention? [[…]] It's hard. Would you like a word, Mrs. Zupevc? Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u176	Madam Vice-President, what you are affording is indeed a pure abuse of the rules of procedure. Three times now you have explained what a replica is, so I will read article 70 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. "Every debater has the right to reply to another debater's debate as far as this debate relates to his debate." And the Secretary of State did not speak either of Mr Shirtz or of Mr Tank, and they both replicated it. And you know it's not a replica!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u177	Can we settle the matter? However, both MPs spoke about the financial implications of the amendment. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Can we, honourable Members, go to the vote on the proposal that Mr Möderndorfer had? [[…]] On a procedural basis before that, Mr Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u178	Thank you very much. At the time when Comrade Tanko replicated, no one from government representatives who could speak in the National Assembly was present and it would be correct for the meeting of the National Assembly to be suspended for half an hour or one hour so that one of the government representatives could appear so that he could then explain after the content of the items that were exposed. In particular, given this proposal coming from Mr Möderndorfer, on which it would be good for someone, I suppose, to make it a little clearer by the President, given that it has not been clearly given. I have understood it in this way that this proposal, which you will vote on, closes our mouths and prevents further discussion. It is not entirely clear, however, whether this means that it does not allow us to apply repeatedly for the debate, but we can only speak once or not. It would be wise for you to explain this formally, Madam President, in order to avoid any misunderstandings. However, in this proposal, which closes our mouths and prevents further debate on a very important subject, it is good at least that Mr Möderndorfer submitted it after a few hours of discussion, because if it did not, the debate would be closed and then the coalition could not put this amendment down, which reduces the burden from 0.75 to 0.59 for economic operators. Thus, at least one good work was done by Mr Möderndorfer for the economy when he arrived a little late today. I would like to propose, in the context of this procedural proposal, that once again, there will be some benefit from this, even though I must say that the economy is likely to not survive because of this proposal, especially in terms of how it is designed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u179	Thank you very much. I'll try to explain, Mr. Blackach. In fact, two of your ideas I've detected here regarding the presence of [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] May I, honourable Members? [[…]] We can also stop the session until it's calmed down. I don't think that would be wise. I explain that the Government has announced three representatives at this point: Minister Chufer, Madam Secretary of State, who is here, Mr Vraničarjevo, and also Mr Mavko, Second Secretary of State. I understand that if only Mrs Vraničarova is present here, that we have to give her at least 5, 10 minutes to leave this hall and I will not interrupt this meeting at this time. However, the Government could, of course, assure those representatives that it has listed here to be with us all the time. Another issue you had, Mr Cernač, is the question of further work in the National Assembly if Mr Möderndorfer's proposal is put to the vote, which means that I will reopen the possibility of a debate, with Members being able to report to the debate, whether they have already debated or not. And then there will be no new round of discussions. Well, it'll only be a one-time application. Those who apply will be able to discuss, then there will be no new round of discussions on this content, on this Article. But it's the only one that's open. Can we get to the vote? Mr. Tanko, a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u180	Thank you very much, Mr President! I must say that we will not support this proposal in the Group of Members. We find it inappropriate that the coalition Members, except for some very rare exceptions, have not even participated in this debate on the amendments tabled and have now come to the Chamber solely to prevent the debate of Members. We are at risk in the parliamentary group on this type of work; we are also appalled because, yesterday, none of the representatives of the Government, not the President of the Government, not the Ministers, except the Minister of Health, who is said to have been entitled to the hospital, was able to explain why this point is even necessary on the agenda. Now that you have pushed this point into the agenda of the Assembly meeting by emergency procedure, you are preventing those who would like to talk about these contents and the amendments tabled — not to talk about them. Unworthy! She could not explain why the agenda was on, nor could the Minister of Finance, or the Secretary of State, who replaced her, could say it, Minister Dragoja, could say it, but neither one of the other representatives of the Government, had been invited several times. And now that you have forcefully placed this item on the agenda, you will do everything you can to stop talking about it, as envisaged by the National Assembly’s plan. What should we think of the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, who have seriously prepared ourselves, taking part in the debate all the time that the point has been running and now arrive in the Chamber for the first time today by one of the coalition Members and proposing a procedural proposal? Look, the mockery of the citizens, the mockery of all of them has achieved such behavior. I suggest, Madam Vice President, that you do something in this sense in the National Assembly, including with regard to a warning to the Government and others. If the point is placed on the agenda and the time is planned enough, the College of the President of the National Assembly has, on his proposal, set the time for discussion and announced 5 minutes for the application and this is happening, this scenario is now completely undermined only because some Members of the Coalition Members, who are obviously very large to have this law and tax enforced, are preventing the debate of Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party and others who have imposed this enormous tax burden on them. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] We will vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u181	And Mrs. Massa Kociper, a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Given that you, Madam Vice-President, have allowed Mr Tanko to abuse the procedural proposal and explain the vote that is not expressly allowed under the Rules of Procedure, you will also allow me to explain my vote and I will tell you why I will vote in favour of the proposal put forward by our leader of the Group. Because I was present shortly after noon in the hall when Mr. Cernač with a broad smile asked Mrs. Polonco Komar at that time whether she understood that at this point and at this amendment she could discuss each five minutes in each round of the application, and when she said she understood correctly, there was no proposal to shorten it so far, Mr. Chernač – I will use the domestic term – cut it out and said, "If I understand correctly, we have 20 rounds to discuss this amendment, and I am sure that we will also make it happen." That was 6:30. Now it is almost three o'clock, we have two amendments in which we have listened to the opposition, the opposition that we have allowed to not be confined to these hours in its debate on the amendments, but now is mocking us and the public at large, from citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and using the procedure, even though we have been more than benevolent. I will vote in favour of Mr Möderndorfer's proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u183	Mrs Kociper, I'm afraid you've caused quite a few problems with your explanation of vote. I will give the floor first to Mr Chernač, because I think it was really inappropriate to mention him here. Here you go, Mr. Blacky.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u184	Yes, I have not abused this Rules of Procedure in any part of the debate today. I have debated in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, including in accordance with the content on the agenda today. Ms Maša Kociper misused the rules of procedure and also clearly acknowledged it, and she acknowledged it with a broad smile, which is why she will also understand if you give her a warning in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I believe that a more severe sanction is not appropriate, but it would not harm the removal from the hall. However, according to the way in which the debate was held, it is right to say clearly what is going on in the coalition. This coalition is not about the Real Estate Tax Act or about people.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u185	Just a minute, Mr. Blacky. Stop the clock, please. Dear colleagues [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u186	Just as in some way they experience the people and the people with the measures they are taking, in some way this procedural proposal gives rise to the opposition's Members, when they are closing our mouth with a proposal that is inappropriate in view of the fact that there is still a great deal of substantive debate. But this is the coalition. This is the mirror of this part of the people. I believe the people see you and they understand what you're doing. You are vindictive, evil and do not want to discuss the content and do not want to seek good solutions for this country. Given Masha Kociper's abuse of the rules of procedure, I believe that you will act in accordance with the regulations and give her a reminder. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u187	Mr. Blackach, thank you for your performance. I'm not going to give Mrs. Masha a reminder. I believe that she is aware, and she herself has said that she is in violation of the rules of procedure. I think he was violated by some in front of her, too. I hope that we will calm the debate so that we can finally come to a vote on the proposal. I give you my word this time, you've applied before, Mr Ljubo Žnidar, please. Procedural proposal. I'm asking for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u188	Thank you so much for saying that. I have a procedural proposal. I would ask my respectable fellow Member, Mr Jani Möderndorfer, to withdraw his procedural proposal, on which we are to vote and thus limit the debate, because it is a great loss to the economy. I would say, let's give the Members today a look at what our productivity is. Productivity is that after three hours we have reduced the real estate burden, the next hour we have reduced the land burden, and I believe that with the length of the debate we will also contribute more to the Slovenian economy. So I ask that this proposal withdraw and that we all do more for the Slovenian economy together, because our length of discussion is extremely productive for the Slovenian economy. I don't know if we've ever been as productive in the National Assembly as we are today. So I ask for a contribution with Slovenian development.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u189	Thank you very much. I do not see Mr Möderndorfer's hands, so I suppose he will not withdraw his proposal, so I am putting the proposal to the vote. However, the proposal, as I explained earlier, is in accordance with Article 67, paragraph 5, and the debaters will be able to get the floor only once. Just a minute. I am opening a vote on this proposal. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 31. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 31.]] Mr Möderndorfer's proposal was put to the vote. At this point, we are moving on to the possibility of applying for a debate to continue. Anyone who wants to discuss it should sign up. Twelve panellists have been reported. First up is Mr Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u190	Thank you. The law he's in. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u191	One moment, if you wait for the Members to be removed.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u192	Well, a nice greeting to the coalition MPs, who obviously aren't doing their job again. However, they are making a burden on the economy, in addition to the only thing they know in this country. What's crucial about this law is that the Prime Minister of the Government has placed a trust on it. This is said to be a law of exceptional importance; it is a law that is everywhere, if you look across the European Union, a law that governs this area in a completely different way than in Slovenia. Indeed, everywhere in Europe, income from property tax on the income of individual municipalities and municipalities can regulate this as their own income, thereby regulating their own development. In Slovenia, however, under the transition left coalition led by Alenka Bratušek, the principle has now been established by taking money to municipalities even for municipal buildings and taking it to the state level, where it will of course be happily spent. The law is extremely unfair, it is written that if someone fails to pay, there will be a new nationalisation, and buildings or properties will remain as the burden of the municipalities, even the poor, because Mrs Bratušek will take their money and take it to the country and, of course, they will be deprived twice. People will probably be angry at the congregation because they will think that the congregation took something from them – they were taken by a transitional left. Whoever chooses the transition left today, remember that old saying that stupidity must always be taxed, and the way this government acts, in fact, puts this old rule well into practice. The only problem is that that's what we're all paying for, including those we've never voted for. Today is the possibility of adopting an amendment that we have proposed in the SDS to substantially reduce the burden on the economy, which is already overloaded with many taxes and taxes of all kinds; with everything you have taken for granted in this House in the past year. At the same time, no economic downturn can help. Also yesterday's statement by Mrs Alenka Bratušek that the VAT hike has by no means added any additional burden to the economy says a great deal. Whether it is for the Nobel Prize for Economics, as I suggested yesterday, if it is true if it turns out to be a new scientific knowledge or for, to put it mildly, a lack of evaluation and an immediate withdrawal, because it reflects the complete economic ignorance of those who really decide on the fate of people. I'm afraid it's another one, ladies and gentlemen! By what Mrs Bratušek said, however, it was not the first such nonsense, but it had already stated that the VAT tax was the most social tax and that it was therefore raised. VAT is the most neutral tax, ladies and gentlemen, if the lady ever read a textbook or at least those who speak write it, because she reads it anyway. But the most neutral tax, but it is also the most a social tax in fact, because the most striking is those who live from hand to mouth, those who already have the least. VAT burdens the economy twice: right at the time of introduction, because now you have raised more money, and then again indirectly, because it is more expensive because money is less circulating because it is less used because it is lowering consumption. If someone can, please, tell the President of the government that at least she knows what she's doing! For all I fear is that it will turn out — according to the principle that there is a pilot on board — that no one is fully aware today of the ruling coalition, what it is doing. Everyone's just counting on where they're going to take it and giving it to someone after Robinhood and throwing it around, and nobody thinks that that's why you're killing what's based on Slovenia's independence and even Slovenia's statehood. This is the Slovenian economy, Slovenian entrepreneurship, which, on the one hand, flees abroad, on the other hand, home whims, declines, fails, jobs close. Today is an opportunity to take at least one small step towards the end of this agony, to reduce the anticipated burden of the economy and [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] You have adopted this law yourself, tomorrow the Constitutional Court will give you a constitutional non-disclosure; today it can still be improved, which can be resolved to – tomorrow will be too late. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u194	Thank you. Probably today's debate, all the ceremonies would not be necessary if, in those late evenings and early mornings, the coalition listened at least a little to the opposition and made at least as many life laws and probably had not 6 today, but only 4 constitutional complaints in the Constitutional Court, but will be decided by the Constitutional Court tomorrow and will show you a mirror. I think that the only ones who can vote with ease or with a calm conscience both in these amendments and in this law are colleagues from the SD, because their ideology, to forgive me, is the social state, and after their easiest social state and the public sector is paying the economy. That is why I see no problem with them voting against our amendment, and in all others, I wonder what policy they represent from day to day. Colleagues from Positive Slovenia, we see what they represent – down they hang for everything, like the Presidents of the Government; full of mouths about the economy; on the other hand, when we talk about the economy, they run out and when they start doing something in the economy, they do nothing but damage. Then we have such a vuhmepisian relationship with our colleagues in the National Gazette because they think that with the amendment from 0.75 to 0.59, they will save the Slovenian economy. Colleagues, you won't! Then we have here a client of DeSUS, who is today without a vote, without discussing when we proposed a zero rate for homes for the elderly; therefore, the party that is full of words for the elderly, for the pensioners, today is silent. I am very sorry, I am truly sorry that there are no colleagues from the Slovenian People's Party in this coalition, because there is likely to be a statement or a discharge in the area of agriculture in this amendment. But they will probably not be able to wait for this discharge, because it is clear from the discussions of those few coalition members who have even discussed that the SDS amendment will not be supported, and the amendment of the coalition will give all Slovenian farmers, i.e. the Slovenian countryside, once again nothing. Let's tax him, as they said, even if there's nothing left for farmers, he'll still be so stupid as to grow a kilo of potatoes and sell it. It's probably the thinking of this government coalition. In short, I look forward to tomorrow's decision by the Constitutional Court, because I am sure that there will not only be a fraction of it broken - although I do not expect the whole law to be annulled - because, as I have already said, I expect the immediate withdrawal of the President of the Government, who has tied both the budget and the confidential to this property tax. However, I look forward to the resignation of individual ministers who, during the debate on real estate tax, defended each of their own portfolios. Tomorrow, the Constitutional Court will give them a mirror: whether Minister Židan is really the guardian of agriculture or working against agriculture; whether Minister Omerzel cares for energy or cares only for his energy pot; or whether Minister Dragonja can still work as an economic minister or he can also work with different lobbying, interests lead and whether Minister Virant really represents local self-government or does not represent it. Any part of the property tax will be "stop" by the Constitutional Court tomorrow, and "stop" is also for this minister. But it's not like we're going to come back to the National Assembly on Monday with some law and we're going to say that we're going to do a little bit of talking again, a little hynavo, we're going to do a lot of bragging about how we did it, and, as we say in Posavia, Sava is still going to run down and not up. In short, the policy of this government: one is spoken, and unfortunately one is working completely differently, continues. We expect those colleagues who have their mouths full of concern for the economy, for agriculture, for the elderly to support the amendments of colleagues from the SDS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jurša has a procedure, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u196	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. If each parliamentary group in this Chamber, each party took care of itself and of its deliberations, all parliamentary groups would have sufficient work to do. Some here put themselves in the position of professors and others learn how to do and how to do. You know, both on that side and on that side, or if we look to the left, to the right, all the parties were already in the government and in the opposition. And being in opposition is likely – we were, too, if you like, gentlemen, and allow me to express my opinion, in the opposition, but we were more in governments, one and the other. And it was always the same. In general, when you are in the government, you have a special task, as well as those who have worked at local levels, as well as saints and perhaps mayors or parishioners, you know well that it is necessary to design a budget in some way and provide the means to then have the resources for the needs of the local community or the state. Therefore, I must tell you that it is not good to like – in fact, it is good for someone to speak likely, but you must always keep in mind that this is the role of government, and in opposition you may like it. And we have been and we have said clearly and loudly in the beginning that we do not like this real estate tax law and we have had a lot of comments and we have also had an alternative proposal. However, since most of the coalition then decided to move this law forward, we also supported this law with some corrections. Of course, we would want to be substantially different than it is. However, it would be best if all citizens were to be exempt from all duties and, of course, money for the needs of the budget for the functioning of the country should probably be sought elsewhere. My procedural proposal is for Members to limit themselves and first take care of things in their parliamentary group and then look over the fence and teach others their minds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. Franz Jursha. In connection with your procedural proposal, I think each of the Members and Members of Parliament is well aware of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It was decided that everyone could discuss for five minutes. The first round of the debate of the reported debaters is now, then another round will be possible. Anyone can talk for five minutes. I also agree that the item on the agenda is discussed in particular; that is, you too, Mr Jurša. However, Mr Tomaž Lisec has applied for a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u198	Thank you, Madam President. If there is no substantive debate that, as an opposition Member, I am calling for the majority to support our amendments, the substantive amendments, then I really don't know what I am. As an opposition Member, I have been substantive, unlike the vast majority of the coalition Members, along with the ministers, who like you, and you are doing a completely different job, choose the word that is missing there. In short, Madam President, I propose that those who want to be substantive should be substantive. From this point of view, I would like to ask my colleagues from DeSUS once again procedurally if you have problems, or from other parties, if you do not want to be liked, be substantive and like and support the SDS amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u199	Thank you very much. I suggest, as I said, those of you who have already discussed this possibility have had this opportunity, which you will, focus on the point. Mr Marko Pavlišič is next on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u200	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I don't know if Social Democrats are the easiest to vote on this law. I would say that the opposition is the easiest to vote because they are responsible for the country's seventh concern. And it's basically the same thing. The coalition has taken responsibility for this government and we have therefore also taken responsibility for the proposals of laws, for reforms, for the rest and we are aware of these responsibilities. It would be nice if someone else were aware of this responsibility, but we're not counting on it, and that's the way it is. I do not usually respond to nebulosis, but today, and also today, in this debate on real estate tax, so many have been said that there is also something to be said about this topic. Above all, I would be referring here to these assessments of the fairness and proportionality of this tax, how we now tax someone who can't afford it and so forth. Let us take a look at the truth in the eye and make it clear that our elderly citizens have a guaranteed pension. I'm not saying they're tall, I'm not saying they're too tall; even more, they're too low, but they're guaranteed as opposed to many young people who don't have salaries. They built houses, big houses, in the time of Yugoslavia, when inflation ate the loans they had rented to build them. I allow them this, but let us be aware of this fact that they have come to this in an easier way than many people can today. The middle generation has protected permanent employment and housing on the basis of the Law of Jasbinska. There's nothing wrong with that. I would have given it to everyone, but let us be aware of this fact that today young people do not have the opportunity to do so. And unfortunately there's another fact. Speaking of young people, I'm not talking about young people 15 years old, 18 years old, I'm talking about young people up to 40 years old. I'm sorry. They are those who have no jobs and have no place to buy apartments from, then pay taxes, and do not get credit, because they do not have regular jobs; and this is the problem of this country. And when you talk about the fairness and proportionality of this tax, think, please, also to the young in this context. That is why we have taken part in the Civil War and have also succeeded in entering into the coalition contract the so-called tax stabilisation, which means, in other words, no tax hikes and no new taxes. With this commitment and the golden fiscal rule that we have written in the constitution – we all know who was first signed under this proposal, comes from the National List – and with this golden fiscal rule there is also a clear way to resolve this, not to raise taxes on one side and balance the budget. This path is through more efficient public spending and rationalisation of public spending. I hope that we will have the support of everyone in these steps; everyone who thinks they are responsible and they are not, and that they will have the opportunity to demonstrate their responsibility to the country with the support of appropriate measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Yes, a number of middle-generations have settled the housing problem under the law of Jazbinšk, as well as some officials, for example, the former President of the State, Mr Kučan, with just over 60,000 marks or just over 30,000 euros, has reached the settlement of the housing issue or the Atrian house in Murglah. But that is no reason to have such isolated cases in view of this mother that we have today in our order. Also, many of those mentioned by Mr Pavlišič literally built his own home with his own work. Many of you in this room can say that you know the cases, and I myself know the people who have literally acted like flowers to build their own home. And how are we going to explain to these people that now he's going to pay this house three times the tax he's paid so far? And I'd kind of like to eat it; for a fruit tree next to this house, where the crevices grow, two thousand square feet big, and ten times as much as he's going to pay for that house he built himself! How? And that is not what this novel of yours removes; it eliminates 0.50, 0.15 residences, but does not eliminate this part of the tax. There will still be 0.50 orchards at the price of building land. And it's turned out that the congregations that put this into action are responsible. In an urban sense, it is not possible to exempt from the plans in the midst of individual settlements. Thus, this solution, which is here on the table today, eliminates one part of the problem that you have caused yourself, but will not eliminate all that this law brings, so of course it would have to be addressed. Unfortunately for some there are also 20 rounds of debate, Mrs Maša Kociper, it would not help to understand this. Even if there were 21 laps, even if there were 30 or 100, we'd like to make them, if that would have an impact on your decision to change. For this reason, I initially said that it was good that Mr Möderndorfer woke up a little later and came to this hall after a few hours to shut our mouths and that we could no longer discuss, because during this time you gave birth to an amendment which gave the economy from 0.75 to 0.59, I do not know what was essential – I also do not know where 0.59, obviously there was a marketing expert who had previously worked in the store, because if 0.59, it looked significantly smaller than if it was 0.60, so it would also be good to explain why this number. It would also be useful to clarify if it was not possible to do anything for a few months before, because the financial sustainability of the budget did not allow this to happen, how is it now possible that €50 million could be obtained from other sources. There was no explanation for that either today. Mr Pavlišič spoke of the fact that they are satisfied in the Civil Gazette that this tax is now being reduced. This is, I must say, a little perverse debate has been, but let's put this aside because this tax rate is uniting from 0.50 to 0.15. You have been with both the Civil List and DeSUS, as Social Democrats, along with Positive Slovenia and you have voted on all these new taxes in the last year. Everybody. All; from the first to the last, you voted higher property taxes, you voted higher VAT, you voted an increase in income in some perfidious way, an increase in cadastral income and a number of additional tax burdens. Everybody! And DeSUS, when there was a speech earlier by the head of the delegation about popular talk. Your responsibility is the same as the responsibility of everyone else and you can't say nice to the cameras on the one hand how you stand up for those with the lowest benefits if, on the other hand, you make them work at every step of the way, instead of working for the tycoons and those who have robbed Slovenian banks! And you are burdening the economy; that economy that provides money now for all these tycoons, which will in fact provide money for Mr Praprotenik on New LB, where the job is obviously, artificially created, completely unnecessary, the top of systemic corruption before everyone's eyes. So this is kind of the policy of this coalition, and even in this real estate tax, it's no different. We propose that, in at least one part, this law is preferred, we propose not to decide on it today, because it is inappropriate for this law to change one day before the decision before the Constitutional Court. This decision should be postponed until next week. However, it would be best, of course, that this Real Estate Tax Act would be fully abolished.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u203	Thank you very much. He asked for a replica from Mr Marko Pavlisič, who was named several times. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u204	Thank you for your word. Thanks for the appointment. On May 31st, last year – no, two years ago, in 2012, when our government was in power, I published a report on my blog entitled Neoliberal Government Reform. There I wrote, "Let's look at these key neoliberal points that the government then adopted..." – our government will not be mistaken, although I was not very close at the time – "... a 50% income class is introduced; the rate of income from interest and dividends is raised from 20% to 25%; the rate of profit from the acquisition and derivatives of financial instruments is increased from second to end of the fifth year from 20% to 25%; additional taxes on motor vehicles for more than 2 000 500 cubic centimetres are introduced... "--and so on. "An additional tax shall be introduced for vessels; a new tax shall be imposed on profits due to a change in the destination of land, 25% if sold in the first year and so on; a property tax of more than one million euros shall be imposed... "And so on. In short, what am I trying to say? Our previous government has also adopted a number of tax restrictions. It may have been more meaningful, it may have been different, but look, all governments had to work in this direction. Perhaps Mr. Chernače knows that if he has not forgotten, but if he has forgotten, he can read it again. And as he mentioned the tycoons in the banks, five votes of the Slovenian Democratic Party were missing when we voted on this amendment to open it. Five from the Slovenian Democratic Party! One vote was missing, and that would have been voted on.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has a procedural record. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u206	What we've just heard is not a replica, but I'm a little confused by what I just heard. I believe that you have been in the National Assembly for so long, Mr Pavlišič, that you have understood that decisions in this Chamber are made by a majority. Your majority. Most of Positive Slovenia, National Gazette, Social Democrats and DeSUS. If any of your Members were missing when you adopted this law, that is your problem. The opposition Members, when taking or denying the decisions you are taking, cannot influence and cannot be invoked. With everything you've talked about before, I didn't understand exactly what you were saying. Certainly, the former government, the second government of Janša, did not burden those you are burdening. Thus, she did not burden those with the lowest income and took measures that would burden those who have the most, and especially those who have acquired something illegal. You forgot to say the essential thing. At the time of taking these measures, the Minister of Finance was your Vice-President, Dr. Janez Šuštersič. I believe he proposed and took good action.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u207	Thank you very much. The procedural proposal was put forward? Since you had a procedural process, it was quite something. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] In view of the debate that has developed between one and the other, respectable, both Mr Chernač and Mr Pavlisic, I propose that you really discuss yourselves in this regard and also clarify matters. Next's up. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Mr Černač has applied for procedural procedure, but you will not get a word because Mr Marko Pavlišič has applied before you, then you will be able to take your turn. [[…]] Here you go, Mr. Pavlišič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u208	Given that Mr Chernač has forgotten to submit his procedural proposal, I would help him to do so. I gradually propose that the National Assembly thank you for the successful and quality work done by former Minister of Finance Janez Šuštersič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Zvonko Černač, a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u210	I made a procedural proposal earlier. I guess you didn't hear him. I said that this was not a replica of what Mr Pavlisic was saying, and I expected that you, as chairman, would be alerting him; as I expected you to warn him now or tell him that what he said at the conclusion of this meeting was also no procedural proposal. This is my procedural proposal to tell the Member that he acted contrary to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Today, there is a real debate on Article 1, the amendment or the amended law amending the Real Estate Tax Act and the debate on Article 1 and the two amendments tabled are very varied. Before that, I did not stop in the previous debate when the debate was also about other people who did not specifically have a direct relationship with this law, which is why I did not assess the size of both of them in your procedural proposals. But I would suggest that in the future you try to concentrate on the law. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u212	Madam Vice President! This matter, which we are talking about today, is too serious to be entertained in the National Assembly. After all the things I've been listening to lately, I must say that some things have exceeded all the limits of good taste here in Parliament. Today and for some time now, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and Alenka Bratušek have been trying to convince us that this property tax is one of the key taxes with which the Government would try to close public finances. And look at the fraction! Two people are sitting here representing the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. This is indeed a precedent, it is, I will say, extremely exceptional – or, even I have no words for it – irresponsible of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to allow itself to speak on one hand about how this tax is important for our country, citizens and our budget, and on the other hand you have none of the representatives of the government in Parliament. Or two or three people. I have to remove my secretary of state here and apologize to her for spending a very long time here between us. But see if this is a project of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, about which President of the Government of Slovenia is very much in front of the Slovenian public, today we have only a lady and two other people gathered here by the Government, I think it goes beyond all the limits of good taste. On the other hand, interestingly, a few minutes ago we had an entire Jankovic list here, and one of Jankovic's letters allowed herself to say that how we allowed ourselves – or that they were so kind to us that they allowed us to discuss it! The opposition. That is how one lady in the National Gazette, Maša Kociper, said. They're us. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u213	Mr Pojbič, I propose to marry [[…]] Mrs. Kociper is not in the Civil Code. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u214	I'm not talking about the Civil Code, I'm talking about Jankovic's list, it's something else. Please, because it's not a big difference, but still, Jankovic's list is similar. We all know this; all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia know exactly who these people are. And why aren't they here today and now in Parliament? Why aren't they here? Because the majority, most of them, I hope to say, live very well in the Republic of Slovenia, all Members and Members who are sitting here and are not, of course, burdened by this law. This law, however, burdens those who live on the brink of survival in this country. And here I begin with the Social Democrats, Lukšić, of course, I should now take over the leadership of this party of the Jews in order to save this party from a state when it falls, falls, falls on public opinion. But they're talking about the social state. My dears, what are they doing with this marriage to socially endangered groups? They're extra-loaded! Then I go along this line, and I stop at Desus. Excuse me. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u215	We're talking about the law, not the parties, Mr. Pojbich!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u216	Vice President, I have the right to explain why this law is the way it is. Look, we have DeSUS who should take care of this – and he claims and says he cares that pensioners can normally survive the life they have left. But in this way, with the new taxation of those people who receive pensions of 300, four hundred, five hundred euros and burden them with such news arising from this law! If I continue with the Civil Code, which speaks of some middle country, this is once again the way of citizens, or we will say some middle citizens and citizens who are once again extremely burdened by this tax and so on, I have already said so about Jankovic's list and immediately in the beginning. I'm gonna get back to these amendments. See, the Slovenian Democratic Party has tabled an amendment proposing a zero tax rate for agricultural buildings, for business, energy, industrial properties and properties used for the care of the elderly, so these are homes for the elderly. At that time, we received the amendment proposed by the coalition, saying that this tax rate is falling from 75 when it comes to certain areas, to 59 I think that this is a mockery from the National Assembly and all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr Brane Golubovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u218	Nice greetings to all, as well as greetings from the Secretary of State with her co-workers, the Secretary of State, who in these months, when we had public debates and discussions on the real estate tax, has always participated in this and is the only right and competent person to sit here today because the law knows in detail. I will say that I don't have time to analyze and deal with all the opposition or coalition parties because I take my work very seriously and responsible, and I don't have time to joke in here and spend my five minutes on the nonsense that some people are talking about. The real estate tax, despite what we feel about it, is a tax that is needed and that replaces three other taxes. Let me say again that, in all this debate, we have reduced the tax rate in cooperation with the opposition for agricultural land, forests, agricultural buildings and now, which I like, and for which I also publicly supported my colleague Frangež, Stepišnik and others, Aloyz Potočnik, that the basis for the economy has fallen from 0.75 to 0.59%. Regardless of what the Constitutional Court will say tomorrow, it is only right that we have already lowered this foundation today. With regard to the amendments and we understand that Article 1 has two amendments, the amendment of colleagues and colleagues from the SDS would reduce by one hundred and twenty million the revenues that the municipalities now receive from the compensation for the use of building land. I just can't support it. As I said for the first time, if colleagues and colleagues had already given an amendment on the committee to lower the level of entrepreneurship, they would have supported it. The second thing that was also discussed was that if the Constitutional Court held or even annulled the Real Estate Tax Act, because the President's trustee was bound to the budget, that the President should come to this Parliament in an hour and offer his resignation, it is nonsense for me. The real estate tax is 2% of total income, 2% of total revenue, within VAT, profit tax, excise duty, income, etc., etc. [[…]] But the whole point of this is that we are all together in a debate that lasted for months on real estate tax and has certainly damaged the coalition in some way, and on the other hand it has combined it, that we have some rates that are somewhat comparable and even sustainable and no matter what the Constitutional Court says tomorrow, we have a basis for continuing this tax in the future. And I believe, no matter what government comes, the property tax will apply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbich has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u220	Of course, Madam Vice President! So, Mr. Golobič was talking about me talking nonsense. You idiot! If I could speak Slovenian, I should say – or I think it is the right expression for this nonsense. And I must say that I am extremely saddened to have such people sitting in our Parliament. To allow themselves in this way to discredit Mr Marijan Pojbič in this House. This is extremely irresponsible and rude. And Madam Vice President, at least what I expect is for her to apologize to me here for not saying any nonsense, but talking about real things. All I've said is reality in this country, and if that's not what I'm saying, gentlemen like Mr. Golubovic will be able to know when the right moment comes. One more thing. Mr Golobič, Golubović – yes, I'm not doing too well, unfortunately, I can't help, but I'm not guilty of asking you to live in Kamnik, to bring you to the edges of the Slovenian Mountains, Koroška, Pomurje, Štajerska, Kočevska and so on and so on, and you will see what I'm talking about. [[…]] Mr Golubovic, it would be good if you could come into this environment and find out what I was talking about. What is the real Slovenian reality. Slovenian reality is not what is happening in Ljubljana and in the nearest places around Ljubljana. The real reality is what is happening in Slovenia and the last time is that Jankovic's list and all his supporters will find that Slovenia is not only Ljubljana: that Slovenia is also Slovenian mountains, Koroška and so on. When you experience this, you feel it, and you realize that what you are talking about right now is wrong. That's why I expect you to apologize to me. Apologize for this because you insult all those people who live on the outskirts of the Republic of Slovenia and are, in any case, an integral part of this country and you do not have the right to speak about them. You have no right! It's our Slovenian people! Regardless of where a person lives, he has the same rights to life in this Republic, the same rights, whether they are in Ljubljana, whether they are in Shentil, Kungot, the Poet and so on, the Apaches and so on. That was an insult to me and my people.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u221	Dear Mr. Marijan Pojbič, given your request in this replica, if I get a little attached to your debate, I am not obliged here to politicize anything and I must not, but also Mr. Golubović – that is what it says! He will assess whether he needs to apologize or will when the time is right. Here you go. Procedurally, Mr. Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Marianne, the people both represent, you and I, so it's not just "my" and "your". Madam Vice-President, I would now like to ask you to warn the speakers who speak out loud that we have a technique in the Chamber that allows for more peaceful discussions, so that we can be a little quieter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Of course I agree with your proposal, Mr. Han. Mag. Andrej Shircelj, the replica, but you weren't mentioned in this circle. You weren't mentioned, so I don't know what you'd have a replica of. I really don't. After your discussion, if necessary, of course I will agree. Please stick to the procedural proposal. Here you go, mag. Spread out.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u224	Madam Vice-President, I suggest you take a look at the provision of the Rules of Procedure which sets out the replica. This provision does not provide that a person should be named by name and surname in the debate, but is sufficient that the debate of a fellow Member refers to my debate which I have had, and so far the rules of procedure have been interpreted. You either don't know it or you don't know it. Read this, it's content, and now I'm going to tell you the contents. I was talking about the financial impact of the property tax, I was talking about our amendment, where the distinguished Secretary of State said what financial impact the Slovenian Democratic Party amendment would have. Mr Golubović also spoke about the financial impact and why he would not support this amendment and also mention certain figures. That's the content, Madam Vice President. If you can't find the content in the two debates on the financial impact, and for that reason you haven't given me the replica, then you would actually ask yourself about knowing this topic and knowing the rules of procedure. That is why I propose, Madam Vice-President, that you read and explain the Rules of Procedure again and allow me a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u225	Thank you very much, mag. Andrey Shircelj. I very much ask you, I respect your expertise and I have very well met it when you were Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, as an opposition member. So I wouldn't judge who knows the finances, and you probably don't, whether I know them, I'm sure. As for the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to ask you politely not to delay the meeting, please read Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure, which speaks of the replica, but I must tell you that when I listened to your debate on the financial effects, other colleagues and colleagues of the debate also convinced me more about the financial effects in relation to the law, not just you. That is why I would not be so insulting to the President as you have been doing for some time now. I don't think that's productive. That's it. Here you are, Mr Brane Golubovic has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u226	I'm sorry. I've raised my hand before. “Bedostača”, “bedarija” and so on are in the Slovenian Book Language Dictionary – Slovenian words. Last name Golubović, non-Slovenian surname, Slovenian citizen. Go-lu-bo-wicz. "-vict" usually comes from your chafuras at the end, which are also Slovenian citizens and many Slovenes and Slovenians, who pay taxes here, we have a last name on -more and therefore we are not worth less. Pika. And one more thing. Majda Maria Capuder Cankar – my mother; Brane Golubović – my father. When he was 16, he came to Slovenia, worked, studied for the butcher, died in a car accident when a drunk driver — a pure Slovenian — killed him, according to you. And I won't let you complain about making a fool out of my last name, telling him 10 times the wrong way, and then accusing me when I didn't even accuse you of speaking nonsense. I said that "some Members speak nonsense" – can also mean from the coalition. But you've known me so much, I'll tell everyone if I have to. And I'm not going to apologize for not insulting you, nor am I going to apologize to you for insulting me, my last name, because it wouldn't mean anything to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Members and Members of Parliament, I should like to inform you that I have received another amendment to Article 1, tabled by the New Slovenia Group of Members, and I should also like to point out that we are also discussing this amendment. We would continue the debate and it is Mr Franz Breznik's turn. I suggest, if you agree, my dear colleagues, that you renounce the procedural proposals and replicas at this point, if possible, that I myself assess that there have been some serious insults to my colleague Golubović, too, and I think it would be correct for the Members who have done this to be denied in some way at this point, to take a step back together and to continue the debate. Mr. Tanko, what would you like? Procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u228	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think you're misinterpreting Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In this part of the Rules of Procedure do not talk about any round of discussions, but discusses the debate. And the debate has been ongoing since you opened the debate on the amendment until the conclusion of the debate on the amendment. Any Member who thinks he is misunderstood or misquoted, however, has the right to a replica, so does Mr Shircelj. He tried to tell you that before, and he didn't make it. This is part of my procedural proposal. The second part refers to the fact that new circumstances have also arisen with the amendment of New Slovenia. I am also making a procedural proposal to amend the decision of the National Assembly to limit the debate. Since it is impossible for amendments to be tabled in such a bureaucratic manner at this point of the agenda when it is possible for amendments to be tabled at the same time in order to put an end to the debate at some stage, new circumstances are emerging with new amendments, which should also be kept accounted for. I propose that the National Assembly also decide to abolish the restriction voted on so that a Member may report to the debate only once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mr Tanko, I cannot accept your procedural proposal, we have been discussing Article 1 of the amended bill or Article 6 of the Real Estate Tax Act, which deals with tax rates. Let me also say that this is also discussed by your tabled amendment, which specifically mentions tax rates, as well as the amendments now tabled by the New Slovenia Group. Therefore, we continue the discussion or in connection with the replica requested by the mag. Andrej Shircelj What do you want, Mr. Marijan Pojbič? [[advertising from the hall]] Mag. Andrei Shircelj has a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President, I: for the first time, in my debate, I do not think I have offended anyone. I've only referred to the rules of procedure that don't specify any last name, and I'm glad you've accepted this explanation and given me a replica. In fact, when Mr Golubovic spoke about the financial effects of this tax, in particular the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, he mentioned the number 120 million, if I am not mistaken, the second number was mentioned by the Secretary of State. I was misunderstood in the sense that what I said was not shared, and that is that this tax is financed by local communities and that local communities are being financed around the world and that local communities are being financed throughout Europe. As a result, the property tax should have the same or similar fiscal effect as the current taxes on real estate. In this, of course, there is also a difference between, if you wish, opposition Members or Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party and between the coalition Members, where of course you want to provide an additional 200 million for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. And it is also the opinion of great experts, including lawyers, who deal with the constitution, that such a tax cannot be a fiscal instrument of a policy, but it is a systemic tax. And in this I was, Mr Golubović – a respected Vice-President, if you can listen to me – in this I was misunderstood. Only one statement was withdrawn, only one part of the statement, not the whole. That is why, once again, I think the replica is justified.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u231	Mr Marijan Pojbič has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u232	Thank you, Madam Vice President. First of all, I would like you, who have spoken very hard words from this city of yours, to say in your debate when you tried to settle the matter that there were many insults at the expense of Golubović. This will be clearly evident from the magnetogram. I can tell you: I have not made any insults at the expense of Mr Golubovic. But if I was wrong about the correct interpretation of his last name, it has nothing to do with the insult, because it can happen to anyone. How many times in the National Assembly we have heard the name Croatia and Horvat changed, but there was no problem, and no one said it was an insult! And Mrs Vice-President, when I spoke in my debate about people living extremely difficult on the outskirts of our country, let Mr Golubovic tell me if that is not true. And we're charging them with this real estate tax! Let someone in this House tell me it's not true that I'm making up a lie! This is extremely irresponsible and distasteful. The facts are clear. This government of Alenka Bratušek and this coalition are burdening the Slovenian nation again, the most suffering one in this society. And that is the truth, and with that truth I hope to go where and stand for this truth! And please, if you are doing this, Government and coalition, then be aware that you will also have to take it before the Slovenian nation and before fairness a just judgment. I hope this happens in the right way. Those who talk about the social state, that you will slowly start to think about what the social state actually is. That the social state is not the one where you give social assistance to people, but that the social state is the one where people have a job where people earn their wages and with that salary survive their family. It's a social state. It's not a social state when you give people 250 euros so they can't die and not survive. According to the Social Democrats, this is a social state. Please, where do you live? Step into reality once and for all in a European story to understand what the social state is.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u233	Dear Mr. Marijan Pojbič, you have understood your procedural proposal to look at the magnetogram, etc. However, I agree with the procedural proposal put forward by Mr Matjaž Han a while ago. We have microphones in the National Assembly, so our tone of debate can be slightly lower. I believe, however, that in that barbecue they are discussing that the tone is higher. Mr. Tanko, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u234	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I would like to ask the President-in-Office to define the Government for the amendments tabled by the New Slovenia, the Slovenian People's Party and the Positive Slovenia. We have now received a table of amendments and the Government has not yet said a word about these amendments. If the Government is unable to comment and explain the amendments in this part, as well as the views and arguments, why some amendments that have been tabled support, others do not support, etc., then the meeting should be suspended and the Government's official position should also be obtained. However, given that we are talking about an important topic, respected by the President, on an important topic which is also subject to matter, including the Constitutional Court's assessment, it would be useful to ensure that conditions for an argumented debate are provided and not only before a decision is taken, but before the debate continues to be held to ensure that the views of the members of the groups are also harmonised. I would therefore suggest that you consider whether it might be wise to stop the debate at this stage, giving half an hour's pause to the parliamentary groups to examine and identify these subsequent amendments. Given the importance of matter, I think that would make a lot of sense. The President-in-Office, as regards the way Members are discussed, is a matter for their subjective judgment. Here we have Members who speak in such a way that despite the microphones we hear absolutely nothing, we have other Members who just speak a little louder, we have third Members who speak differently. But if you're going to warn me, please listen, because I'm speaking to the president. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] You don't listen because you obviously can't. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u235	I can hear you all the time, now you're talking about the types of debaters and the tone of voice [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u236	You just don't know what I'm saying. [[…]] But I would expect you not to go into whether someone is speaking in one way or another, or I suggest you mount a counter there, upload it to, I don't know, 75 decibels, or 42, or 35 decibels, and the debaters will talk in accordance with these decibels. All you hear is someone speaking too loudly, your personal perception. If we want the matter to be as measurable and objective as the clock, including the volume meter or the silence of some. And perhaps some other content could be measured in some kind of debate. So I suggest you set a break for the consultations in the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u237	Thank you very much for your procedural suggestions. Now you were right from your party to the most procedural proposals, but let me say that it was also tabled a few minutes ago by the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, both to Article 1 and also to the umbrella law on property taxes and to Article 6 thereof, which deals with tax rates. Given that in all the amendments tabled, both the coalition – Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National Gazette and the Democratic Party of Slovenian Pensioners – as well as the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party, the amendment tabled by the New Slovenia amendment and the amendment tabled by the Slovenian People's Party, we are talking about Article 1 on tax rates, and therefore there is no need for the suspension of the meeting due to the government's position. The Secretary of State has decided to give an explanation or an opinion after the last debater, who is now reported. We continue the debate, and Mr Franz Breznik is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u238	Thank you for your word. At least in the beginning, I would like to thank some of the colleagues who have mentioned today the distinguished colleague Dr. Šuštersič, I must admit that Dr. Šuštersič in the other Janšev government has somehow inherited the role, the difficult place of a quality finance minister who previously belonged to the late Dr. Andrey Bajuk. I must admit that my party president, as far as finance ministers are concerned, always had a good hand, a good feeling and that he was surrounded by the best people; and this is his principle as a perfectionist. It is sad, however, that the Member boasts of the measures that a party in another government has taken. Look, Dr. Šuštersič, when this incredible movement of Mr. Virant with his client was accompanied by him, he found that this had nothing to do with liberal politics, with a liberal party. High taxes, the maintenance of monopolies, the privileges of this country, which destroys any competition, are what does not have any basic degree of liberalism. It is a product of Slovenian liberalism. To this liberalism, with which this party today is to be identified, there is only a liberal view of marijuana consumption. This is the only liberal view they've had in this government. It's the only liberal view. Look, at this time when we're dealing with real estate taxes, when it was actually created, I can say that the whole chaos that is right in the time of this government, at the time of the finance minister you have, the moratoriums were adopted by the two biggest tycoons: Mr Rigelnik and Mr Petan. One, Mr Petan, is controlled by Dnevnik, Mr Petan controls the golf course in Mokricah, controls the marina in Portorož, controls Terme Catež and so on. About Mr Rigelnik and his – I don't need to explain. Both owe 280 million euros. So they're owed more than they've been taken in the essence of this real estate tax in one direction. Look, these two gentlemen, during this time when the state was in debt between 5% and 6%, have been given moratoriums on the principals themselves, on these 280 million, with a one-percent interest rate, respected citizens and citizens. So, all of those, through tax, will also subsidize the interest rate to these gentlemen in order to remain true. Stay the real owners! Those who began investing their political privileges in social property in 1992. Everyone from Forum 21! And these have a one percent interest rate right now. Look, here are the defenders of this policy; here are the defenders. Some here have been directly set up by these people in the National Assembly and are defending all these people. The second part of the so-called plebeians – that is, those of whom Mr Pojbič spoke before and all others – and those, see, will work on. They can't go on Friday from Ljubljana with a luxury car for the weekend to Gozd Martuljek or to Piran. They're working on Saturdays and Sundays. They have to work on our Slovenian Goricas. And their work is taxed on real estate taxes, and on agricultural facilities with 0.3, those small craft workshops will be 0.75 percent. And now that we have convinced you, because of the incomprehensible reasons, you will reduce this – according to some Austrian criteria, I would call it because you set the psychological limit of 0.59. Look, this is the state of this country. So, do not tax, do not interfere with the privileges of former communist February, do not interfere – please, because I understand them. If you've been living with at least a thousand 700 euros in pensions your whole life, if you've got a 5-6-room apartment in the vicinity of Parliament. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u239	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u240	Who were stolen from former Slovenian elites who were killed after World War II, then I believe they are having a hard time. [[…]] Because once you've got a full ass, it's a problem for people to take away when they have a thousand 700 euros. If a man has 500 euros, he can also make 50. And look, these are the requirements, this is the injustice in this country, and these are the parties that are called social ones. These are those parties that are called positive and these are those parties that are supposed to be liberal, this is some liberal party. That's sad. I believe the nation will finally come to know this. Look, I gave the speech, I didn't have the procedure. Look, first of all, if you're leading, Madam Vice President, you need to know that I've waited more than 20 minutes for all the motions, all the arguments, and finally I have my five minutes. At least please, if you'll be a little more careful. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Now, look, I'd also like you to give me 15 more seconds that I've lost. [[...]] That's why we decided it was nothing. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u241	You'll check in again and you'll get 15 seconds. Once again, while you can apply for 15 seconds, Mr Franz Breznik, I would like to point out that we are talking about the first article and the amendments tabled to the amended proposal for a law amending the Real Estate Tax Act, and I ask that in the debates all Members and Members focus on the law. Here you go, Mr. Breznik. Not to be a mistake, since your last call, Mr. Breznik, it must be one minute. I think it'll be possible within a few seconds, so you couldn't turn on the microphone. Try it, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u242	We did it, great! We didn't make a zero rate, maybe we will, but at least we managed to get back on the air. That's what we were gonna say. All those not only from the Slovenian Democratic Party, including the others [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] We want to give the most productive work to Slovenians, small craftsmen almost 98% and medium-sized enterprises. [[…]] And, of course, those people in the countryside who care about our self-care.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u243	Thank you very much. The next one is Mrs Sonja Ramšak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u244	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I am extremely sorry that, with Mr Möderndorfer's procedural proposal a few hours earlier, a very professional and in-depth debate has actually turned into a burlesque that is not an honor to any of us. Today's debate is on amending and supplementing the Real Estate Tax Act and, given the amendments tabled, also the coalition, because obviously the three-hour debate between opposition Members and Members has only had some effect, but when we look at all the amendments, we can find that once again, the actual opposition MPs and Members know that the economy is what we need to give him a new wind in the sails. Indeed, Mr Stepišnik as a businessman, as an entrepreneur, spoke about added value and economic growth – yes, because who has been talking about economic growth in these benches for so long?Oh, my God! On this side, even when we were in the government, we said that it was most important to ensure the conditions for the functioning of the economy and to ensure economic growth and thus jobs of added value. I hereby agree with you, Mr Stepišnik. Of course it is necessary, now you are in the government, to take steps forward, you need to do this to move from words to actions. You were a minister, and you had your chance. I know you've had too little time to do much in this short time, but still. When you spoke today about the effects on exports – of course, it is only necessary to look at the structure of exports. Why? Because exports to pharmaceutical products have increased significantly and this is really our main export product. And I'm going to want you to have a toolbox that will have 600 employees, and you'll be making tools with added tools. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u245	Mrs Ramšak, we are not talking about Mr Stepišnik's company or about him, but about the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u246	But in this National Assembly, can anyone else normally say that you don't interrupt? I mean, sad! Allow your Members and Members to speak, insult us and all the way forward, but we cannot say two sentences normally. That's not true!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u247	Thank you very much. The next one is Mr. Robert Hrovat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u248	Thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, it's too serious a topic to break up like this for the last – I don't know – half an hour. In fact, it is an extremely sensitive subject and I really wonder when I am listening to this debate today, if the coalition is even aware of the difficulties it causes to some people in Slovenia by adopting such a law. And believe that this is not a minority in Slovenia! At the time of the adoption of the law at that night session, I was talking about the fact that people were not really aware of what we were voting about here in the National Assembly and what the coalition had accepted. They didn't even know the consequences. Now, at this point, they've been given informational calculations. This informational calculation has shocked many, but it is not yet fatal. Within two, three months, they're supposed to get a ticket. Then it'll be a shock. Imagine people from the edge, imagine people living with low wages, low pensions who are knocking, and I said uglyly, a month and a month to barely survive, and they'll get a congratulations in June by this government, on average 150 euros of extra tax. What kind of shock would that mean to these people? That's what we need to be aware of when we're pressing the keys here in the National Assembly. And that's all of them. Everyone, I am sure, each of the Members and Members of Parliament had someone in the office of the Member who came to accuse him of an informative calculation. I don't think I was the only one. I've had quite a few. Believe me, it is very difficult for people to say that as an opposition to me, as a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party, I have no influence on what will be accepted here in the National Assembly. I just don't have any influence. I wish that when we talk, we listen to each other so that we can hear each other in the end, but we don't. I can't hear you. It is truly necessary to realize that this law has brought many into distress, if not now, definitively, then. When they get the final ticket. See, when we discussed mass valuation and the idea of real estate tax in the year or in the mandate 2004-2008, we talked about the tax on luxury, not the tax on businesses, the property tax that economists, craftsmen have and so on. We talked about luxury – second, third, fourth, fifth apartment. What have you done now? Now you've taxed the businessmen, you've taxed the farmers, you've taxed the residents. Those who have second, third, fourth, fifth apartment, and those who have been expelled. But they have the same thing as those who live as residents in the apartment. Does that seem fair to you? Do you think that's right? Moreover, this tax, or all the money that will be collected from this tax, I hope that tomorrow the Constitutional Court will stop this madness, this money will go into the state budget, into such a huge hole will drop so much. But who did we burden? We have burdened ordinary people; those who barely come from month to month, those who still create, craftsmen, privateists, I speak of economists, farmers and so on. Let's stop here! Let's get real! It's just not what we do. And I'll say otherwise: it's not right what you're doing, we're not doing it. In fact, the Slovenian Democratic Party has no influence to convince you that you could vote differently than you intended; and you have intended to tax in the manner you have decided. That's not right, not for those people who barely go from month to month. And there are so many, believe me! There's a lot of them! [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Mr. Bell Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u250	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. I, too, would touch what has been repeatedly revealed to us that our government has thought about the property tax. It is true that the tax is intended to compensate for the use of the building’s land. And this tax is supposed to be about the amount of compensation that it has so far, no more! By not taxing more building land only, but by taxing what will be most painful for our citizens, that is luxury. Not all of it. Now this tax is even higher than the NUSZ was collected, more than once higher and you tax agricultural land, agricultural buildings, economic buildings, economic land, of course, which is not right. Some craftsmen will pay ten times as much as they have paid the periphery. The one in the big centers, in the cities where the NUSZ was tall, less, even less. That's not fair. I have also heard many craftsmen complaining about how much they must pay and how they will no longer be able to do so in these times, the Chamber of Commerce predicts civil disobedience or protests. They're probably just waiting for the Constitutional Court to decide. I tell you, if you look at statistics as to how many small economic operators are being shut down, people have given up, the added value of these will be no more, but only social support will be expected, because it is probably worth more than doing and paying such taxes, so I will insist, despite the amendment of coalition parliamentary groups, which do little to limit this tax to economic operators. That's not enough, it's not enough. We insist that this is not taxed because all of these entities pay enough other taxes. This does not mean an incentive to economic development but vice versa: the destruction of this small economy. I am sure that tomorrow the Constitutional Court will cancel, at least stop the issuance of decisions, to make better records, to take the country time to do so much better and to think carefully about what is worth taxing, and to allow the municipalities to collect this year's NUSZ, because it is significantly more just. It is even more unfair that the first three years of national collection, although this is supposed to be the original income of the congregations, are returned unjustly to those congregations that will receive substantially less now tax than they have with the NUSZ. I think the Constitutional Court has already said that this is unfair and unconstitutional and one of the greatest reasons for this law to fall in the Constitutional Court. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen in position, think again, and support our amendment to at least forgive these high taxes the small economy that creates the most added value in us and in Europe as a whole and to make new calculations, new starting points, not the mass valuation of real estate, but more fair and fairer taxes, which, of course, are needed, is systemic, is European, but not as you have now prepared. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u251	Thank you very much. According to the Minister of Finance, she is the secretary of state at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u252	Thank you very much again for your word. I was invited to tell you what the financial effects of individual amendments have been. The first amendment of the SDS Group, as I have already mentioned, represents a 177 million negative impact or lower revenue for the state budget and practically means an end to the financial impact on the state budget. The coalition amendment amounts to 32 million less than the estimated profit at the time of the adoption of the law. The NSI's amendment, which reduces the rate of business and industrial property to 0.4%, amounts to a decrease of €71 million and the proposal of the SLS Group, which reduces the tax burden on business and industrial property to 0.3%, reduces the taxation of agricultural buildings to 0.15% and exempts agricultural and forestry tax payments, represents a good 107 million tax less than planned at the time of the budget. What this means for the implementation of the budget is probably not to be explained separately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss it that hasn't discussed it now? He still wants to. So, I'm opening an application for debate. The application shall be made. For all those who are not yet, we are talking about Article 1 and the amendments tabled. Four panellists have been reported. The first one has the word, Mr. Franz Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u254	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Yes, we are talking about this amendment and it is also right to explain the amendment tabled by the Slovenian People's Party. The financial calculation has already been made by the Secretary of State. In the introduction, let me say that in the Slovenian People's Party, we were primarily expecting – and we believe now – that order in this area will be made by the Constitutional Court with tomorrow's verdict. We support the amendment tabled by our colleagues from the SDS, but we are also political realists, what is happening in the Slovenian Parliament, and we had little hope that this amendment would be adopted. You surprised us in some way in the coalition when you started this bidding and then you tabled your own amendment proposing a change in business industrial properties, according to your proposal, the rate drops from 0.75% to 0.59%. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that, as long as you have started to correct this rate today, you no longer intend to consider thoroughly, after the adoption of the Constitutional Court, what this means for Slovenian craft, for Slovenian tourism activities, for Slovenian agriculture. That is why we have decided to then table an amendment, which is in some way a compromise amendment, and we think that it is still from a public financial point of view, but also from a substantive point of view, what has been shown in this process solves the key problems of this law. Let me go in a row, we did not insist on this at agricultural facilities anymore, as we were at the beginning, that there should be no taxation here, but we are comparing the rate with now housing properties. I think that this is also not a significant loss from a financial point of view, but it is certainly unacceptable that this rate has so far been 0,30 %, so we are reducing it to 0,15 %. The key issue with regard to the level of buildings is the reduction of this rate for commercial energy and industrial buildings to 0,30. We wanted to follow trade and tourism in the first place. The doctors turned to us, as did the craftsmen. In this calculation and the survey done in the small economy, it was estimated that the factor for the previous building land is approximately 2.5, 2.44, if we convert it now from the 0.75, which has so far been the rate, we come by dividing 2.5 to approximately 0.30. This is also the degree with which the craftsmen – at least in their conversation with the head of the Chamber of Commerce – have so stated to me – at which they agree in the craftsmanship, this is the rate at which they do not predict the performance of this protest, which is announced by the craftsmen. I think it is also right to turn around, not raise the economy's rate and that in this area about as much money is collected as it has been so far. As far as land and buildings are concerned, we further justify that in Slovenian agriculture, which is taxed on cadastral incomes, this decision has already been made and that it is right that the rate set so far is invalid and that the decision for forest land and agricultural land is null and void. According to the information you have provided so far, I believe that some 13 million euros will fall out for the state budget and, above all, that the Slovenian countryside will not continue to be empty or that ownership will not change because it is easy for people to stop paying these taxes. I appeal to my coalition colleagues, who are key in this matter, to listen to a reasonable amendment and to try to resolve this problem in some way. I am alone, and I and the Slovenian People's Party are not home to this way of bidding, which we are now doing here, in the National Assembly, but respected colleagues, it was your will, we have called for us to simply sit together and resolve this problem in such a way that we can at least say in one thing that we agree in Slovenian politics. I hope that this amendment is acceptable and that such a decision would significantly relieve those who, in Slovenia, will have to bring this cart out of this mud for better by creating new values. I'm asking for your support for this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u255	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u256	Dear colleagues and colleagues! If we look around and look around at other European countries, then we can see that no country has been able to recover economically by increasing taxes. I do not know such a suitable one, but there are many other cases where there is evidence that the rise in taxes has even exacerbated the economic situation. To let everyone know that the Slovenian economy is already overloaded and that we should do something to relieve it, but not add to the burden. And as we are in the crisis, we have now imposed on many small and other entrepreneurs the property tax, which will cut not into 100 euros in their budgets, but thousands of euros. If I touch tourism and tourism a little bit. You know that this is an economic sector that operates with a large number of properties, with a large number of surfaces, and that is why they are most affected by this tax. To avoid thinking about it, I will speak very specifically, those who spoke about how this property tax is at the same level as the compensation for the use of the building land, I can tell you the example of our Terme Snivik, the termes that are in my home areas, that is, the Tuhin Valley. Prior to the imposition of the real estate tax, the term was paid EUR 8 000 in compensation for the use of the building land. According to the IT calculation, they received 60,000 euros in real estate tax. The difference is huge. If the numbers don't tell you anything, then let them tell you that this Termam Snivk tax will take three jobs. And if in this House we are aware that with every job lost, the country loses twice; first it loses where the unemployed have to pay certain compensations, things go from the budget, on the other hand it loses again, because these people who have lost their jobs do not pay in the state budget, in short, the loss is twice. During today's debate and during today's debate, we received a request from the New Slovenia Group, a request from the Tourist and Guest Chambers to table an amendment that would reduce this tax from 0.75 to at least 0.40. We have done this and there is some logic in that all economic societies, both in energy and in tourism and elsewhere, are equal and have the same tax rate. The Secretary of State said so, but this amendment of yours is going to cost 71 million euros. You know, that's how you look at the thing and how you interpret it: whether you see it as a half-full or half-empty glass. We can also interpret this 71 million as aid, a decommissioning of the economy in order to relieve the economy for €71 million, or, on the other hand, if I speak concretely again, this would mean that Terme Snovnik would pay less real estate taxes and thus retain any job more. I am sure that if we work towards maintaining jobs, this will in the long run mean more inflows to the budget than now the short-term tax spill. I don't want to think about it, I don't want to talk in three days, but I want to operate on specific numbers. For one small company only, for one small terminator, this tax means a loss of 3 jobs. So when the Members decide to correct this property tax tonight, we will have 4 versions. If we started at the beginning of the day at 0.75, we have already reached 0.59 – one progress is and, as colleagues said, this means that we have unloaded the Slovenian economy for important millions. I am sure that through the state budget, through contributions, this will come back to the country, but we have done something important. But you will have 3 other amendments to choose: 0,40, 0,30 and finally whoever you want, of course, we will also support the complete exemption. There is a great deal of room for manoeuvre at today's meeting, it will only be necessary to decide and somehow give the economy an opportunity.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u257	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u258	So, with respect, the basic idea of the Slovenian Democratic Party's amendment is that the first priority in a time of crisis is to relieve the economy and thus enable economic start-up and new jobs. The economy, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises, has made it very clear that the new property tax also increases their tax burden several times. In particular, certain industries have been affected, and tourism has already been exposed here. So the economy, economic operators, with a new real estate tax, would be significantly more burdened than ever before and you expect more taxes and new jobs: as much as 60 000. This is, of course, impossible to expect, and that is why I am surprised to see your amendment that you will now give in to something and think that everything will be different. He won't! Despite the dismissal, this economy is still overloaded in order to achieve the objectives that you expect of it. One more thing you need to know is that this is only 80% of the final tax to follow an additional 20% over the next two years, as we now have only 80% of the base. In addition, the indexation of prices or the indexation of this general market value may significantly increase the value of these real estates in the coming years, and this will also increase the value of the tax. And the third uncertainty is that after local elections, congregations will be able to cheer this tax on many. In short, I find the matter unacceptable in such a form. And there's another thing that's become inexplicable. I can't directly imagine this logic and these arbitraryly defined tax rates. Once again, I ask you how it is possible for luxury properties, luxury villas, including non-residential or residential villas, to be taxed less than before. In fact, so far they have been from 0.5, but they will be from 0.4 – whether it is residential or non-residential. Is that fair? Or is it fair for the economy to raise several times the tax on luxury real estate, which is worth more than half a million euros, to be taxed and then less tax paid for. Not to talk about property worth a few million euros, but this will be reduced by a few times, as it is now envisaged that, if I know correctly, 2 percentage points. So explain to me your criteria for these arbitrarily specific tax classes! Why is the richest real estate worth more than half a million euros, which some Slovenians may actually have, taxed now less than before. Yes, of course it is! According to the ZUJF, 0.5 is now taxed and then 0.15 + 0.25, is 0.40 total. How come it's not true? That's right. Therefore, extra taxes on the economy for a few times, and extra burden the luxury goods. And you say that you support the social state and that it is up to you to create – and that you need to relieve the luxury clearly, you also say. Look, what I've just told you is proof that these tax rates were set at night or at break, when no one has ever read or thought about it honestly. For I believe that most of you, at least I know you, Members and Members of Parliament, did not want this which you have done. You have unloaded more than half a million euro worth of property worth over half a million euros. I almost don't know if any of us have one of these here, but I do know some of the tycoons who have it, and they're actually gonna be burdened right now. [[…]] So, respectable! Even if you've given up something on the economy now, it's still a few times as much as it can. It's like giving a 100-meter runner a 70-pound backpack, or 75-pound backpack, and then taking 10 kilos, and saying, "Now you're loaded, and now you can run." But he still has a 60-pound backpack on him. It's actually one fiction, one thing you're going to try to sell as a vacation, but it's still unacceptable. It will also be impossible to set the objectives of this economy, growth and new jobs, with such tax rates.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u259	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u260	Thank you very much. It is true that there is a lot of illogicality in the structure of tax rates and it is true that these tax rates are primarily focused on taxation of the economy and agriculture, and we know that they usually use real estate to create added value at all. Regardless of whether this is deducted from any other tax, today the economy and agriculture are in such a situation that it will not actually be able to do so because there is simply too much loss in this economy and in this agriculture. In addition to the irrational and irrational imposition of these tax rates, the next problem for taxpayers is the tax base. The general market value is an imaginary value modeled on the basis of different models made in cabinets, designed to divide the whole of Slovenia into 19 districts, to find certain properties in these districts that are similar or not similar, and then to throw their properties into models. This may take into account, on the one hand, a price comparison model, if there is no price comparison, it is said that there is no sales in an area of these properties, then the income method is taken into account. It means how much of this would result from, for example, some of the income from this property. If you are not here, it is a cost method and, of course, the confusion is complete, and the confusion was also perfect in these calculations that people received at home. Moreover, I also think that one of the biggest problems is that the law on unacceptable tax grounds, where there is no possibility of personal valuation or a specific valuation of a particular property, will not have, or will be extremely limited, a possibility of a complaint against a decision at the non-rational level of the taxable person. It is extremely strange and legally unprofessional that a complaint will be regulated in a third law, nor will it be regulated in the Tax Procedure Act, where it is already regulated in the Administrative Procedure Act, where part of the complaint is already regulated, nor will it be regulated in the Real Estate Tax Act, but will be regulated by this complaint in the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estates. Why? If this law does not have a tax administration decision issued under the Real Estate Tax Act or issued under the Tax Procedure Act, why will this appeal be specifically regulated in the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate? This is actually professionally unacceptable and, therefore, I do not think that such a law can legally go beyond the assessment of the Constitutional Court. Indeed, taxable persons do not have the possibility of an effective appeal in accordance with Article 26 of the Constitution. Of course, we cannot support such a law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We cannot support it: because it does not provide legal certainty, because it overtaxes the economy and the countryside, because there is no logic at the very level of taxation on individual properties, because I do not actually have any social character of this law. A social character is not a provision which provides that a part of the movement may be transferred to the municipality or state or to the DURS. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have opposed such a law from the outset. We also believe that we should not get more money from real estate in the state – or in any budget, especially in municipal budgets, as we have received from the current taxation. Of course, we feel that marriage as such is unacceptable. That's why it needs to be stopped. It needs to be abolished, it needs to be gathered into expertise, as well as political power, and it needs to start with the drafting of a new law, on new foundations, which will be fairer and even more professional and, of course, legally acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to talk about something that's not there yet? He does. So I'm opening an application for debate. Three panellists have been reported; the first is Mrs Romana Tomc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u262	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Look, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, from the very beginning, when this law began to be discussed, even before the budget was adopted, we note that this is a bad law, a reckless law and an unnecessary law. On the contrary, the government and the coalition wanted to convince us that it is a systematic regulation of this area, that it will rule in Slovenia in the area of property taxation and that, of course, this is the only reason we are adopting this law. Now more than at the beginning, it has been shown that this is not the case and that the Government has been misleading all the time with incorrect data, not to say modified data, and that all the time it is behind is how we will fill the budget hole, to which and to the budget the President of the Government has also tied the trust. Today we don't just have, I'll say, a bad situation or a bad picture, today we have total chaos here. Of course, the confusion and panic in the government ranks and during the coalition is very great. While explaining the many changes that have taken place on this road, as the law has continued to change, we have made some progress in the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estates – which we should have at the beginning – today, from the hour to the table of the second amendment, and would point out the financial consequences of these amendments and those promises and calculations made by the Government at the time of the adoption of the law. If you listened carefully to the Secretary of State at the outset, she mentioned that the calculations of how much real estate tax she would bring into the budget were made in such a way, a little bit even for the reserve, and that this manka, too, did not use those words, but it was based on her words that this manna – which was supposed to come due to the changes in this law – would not jeopardise the budget, because it was planned that a little more revenue than was actually presented to us in the committees and in the National Assembly. How could you, Your Honor, be so wrong in your calculations if you were able to assess a few minutes ago the financial implications of the amendments that we have now placed in the procedure of one million precisely? Is that what you're saying? Did you miscalculate this law when you presented it? I'm sure you'll answer that, too, but I'm wondering if you've been fooling around where you're going to take that difference. Of course, this seduction and deception is enough. I think it would be right to abolish this law as soon as possible and to adopt a system law that will regulate the taxation of property fairly and so that all citizens and citizens, as well as economic operators, will in some way accept this burden because they know that real estate must be taxed. To conclude, when I am not satisfied with these financial calculations, which I find very difficult to believe in, they are very precise once, and they are so flat-rate the second time, and I ask you another question – I hope you will answer. Why did you decide – now I don't know whether the government will answer this or the coalition – just for level 0.59? Why didn't you decide on 0.57 or 0.61? It is likely that such proposals, which have an impact on such a very large number of economists, must be carefully weighed and analysed. But the only analysis that was done here is some program that you put numbers into, you calculated how many millions left or right you still have maneuverable space, and so you have a rate. If after all this you can claim that it is a fair taxation of real estate, then we can really ask ourselves where we are.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u263	Thank you very much. She asked for a replica. Matthew Vraničar, Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u264	Thank you very much. If you really listened to me when I talked about the financial effects, I mentioned that the financial effects were also calculated for these amendments on the basis of the same input data as we had in the preparation of last November's law. The fact is that, on the basis of the informational calculations, we today have more detailed data than we had at the time of the drafting of the law, so it can be estimated that what was proposed by the Government in the initial proposal of the law could not be as much as it would have been if the data remained the same as it had been in the first assessments when we were preparing the proposal for a law. Therefore, it is not a matter of any deceiving, but it is the use of the data we had at our disposal in November. If today we assess the impact on the revenue of the budget, we really have to evaluate on the same database, but we know that the assessment is essentially one matter and the actual realization is another number, and we always aim to make them as uniform as possible. As for the amendment proposal, the Government is not the amendment's proponent and I cannot comment on the level.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Mr. Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u266	I think we have a serious problem. The Slovenian Democratic Party is proposing an amendment with zero taxation of business property, perhaps also as a result of which the coalition repeats its thinking and says O.K., lowering the burden from 0.75 to 0.59, shows some step and good will, so that we may bring our views and views a little closer, but at that point the problem is that we have already taken this step. You see, this way, we're gonna come hard from a dead spot in this country. I must repeat that the lower taxation of the economy was, in fact, a takeover that has roots in coalition coordination, and we have already adopted the basic real estate tax law in the first place. Unfortunately, then, especially fiscal reasons, the very stubborn insistence of the finance ministry did not allow this. We're facing a new situation today, I'll say. We know that the surveys carried out in the economy show that the taxation is not nearly the same as it was after the previous system with compensation for the use of the building land, this was the information presented to us by then, but that the craftsmen and entrepreneurs find that their burden after the adoption of the real estate tax will be several times higher. Some claim to be ten times larger. I think that this is a logical argument, which, of course, policy must respond soberly and rationally. That is why I am pleased with the coalition amendment, and I am pleased with the views of some Members and Members, so that we have reached this amendment today. I am sure that the coalition, but probably also the opposition colleagues, will support it because it is the basis for some more sustainable taxation. There is no doubt that the Constitutional Court will present tomorrow the results of its constitutional assessment of this law. Now it's hard to speculate today, they're already circulating tips and information on what the decision is. In any event, following the publication of the decision of the Constitutional Court, a new reality will have to be dealt with; either with a claim that certain parts of the law need to be corrected, or with the law and this arrangement being fully reconsidered. All roads are possible. I agree with some colleagues that today's amendments to the law could wait a few more days for a decision by the Constitutional Court. At the same time, I also note that there is nothing wrong with the legislative process of these changes today and, of course, we will be able to rediscover what remains to be done tomorrow. This time we have invested in it, I think this time is not thrown away, and if it helps to make the arrangement better and, I hope to say, fairer, then we have done something clever today. So I suggest that solutions – you know, no one takes taxes because they are happy; taxes are needed to make the whole social infrastructure work. However, those who have the responsibility and authority to make such decisions that will burden people and the economy tomorrow must be aware, on the one hand, that these taxes must be fair, and on the other hand, that the resources we derive from this title are being used rationally for our common development needs. However, it is important to note that this property tax, as it is already unpopular, has contributed, as part of the broader package, to the fact that confidence in Slovenia has been strengthened and that today we are paying substantially lower interest than we paid a year ago. Therefore, I say that this tax is one of those measures that has contributed to the fact that today, after some encouraging results, it can be too weak for people to feel them and therefore appreciate them, but it is putting Slovenia on a unfortunately slow path of recovery.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u268	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! The amendment, signed by the coalition parliamentary groups, still provides for business and industrial property, except for energy properties, practically still twice the tax rate expected by the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise, which represents, as I have said before, approximately 99% of the Slovenian economy. That is why our amendment to the Members of New Slovenia is better. Our rate is 0.4% for business and industrial property and for land for business and industrial use. The Genesis of our amendment was explained by my colleague, Matthew Tonin, and I will not repeat it. The Slovenian Chamber of Tourism and Guests has probably turned to our parliamentary group because we have also tabled an amendment to their initiative, which was adopted in the National Assembly and has increased the tourism promotion item, I think for three million euros. Tourism is a very important activity, several numbers for 2012, 2013: 3.3 million arrivals, 9.5 million overnight stays, 61% foreign stays, an average stay of 2.9 days, two billion euro foreign exchange inflows, a weak 13% of GDP, 40% of Slovenia's export services, 250 fifty million VAT and an additional 180 million contributions, salary taxes and so on and a good 13% of employees in the Slovenian economy. Why am I talking about hotel and accommodation activities now? Therefore, – this is an important information, since we have not talked about this before today, it is necessary to know that the share of tangible assets in the economy is on average 37%. In the activities of hotels and accommodation facilities, 81.5% of the allocated basic assets are. Today I have also talked about the case of owners who have ten rooms, that is to say, twenty beds in Moravian Spas, but I have given the wrong information because I have only said tax for the owner who owns half of these capacities. So 2 000 300 euros has to be multiplied by two; it is said that for twenty beds, that is ten rooms, they will pay 4 000 600 euros on an annual basis after an informative calculation. I have also said, and I repeat, that the average cost of breakfast bed is €18, and if I simplify, if all costs, material costs and salaries are only €8, then it takes 460 nights for the state to pay the property tax. Ladies and gentlemen, you will not find an heir who would take over this activity, we are also dealing with an inheritance during this period, both in farms and in craftsrooms – this phenomenon is somehow forgotten and is very important. Young people will not decide on such burdens to take over either a farm or a tourist activity or a production activity. And that's the problem. That's the problem at this time. I think that the decommissioning of the economy provides, of course, an opportunity for faster growth of the economy, provides a greater opportunity for faster budgeting and gives a greater opportunity to reduce the rate of Slovenian debt. What is the rate of Slovenian indebtedness, ladies and gentlemen? One million euros an hour! One million euros an hour is the rate of Slovenian debt and it has lasted for a year, that is 8 thousand 760 hours. That's accurate information! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss it that hasn't discussed it? He wants to. I'm opening an application to the debate. We've got two applications, first has the word Mr. Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Very briefly. True, expectations are always different from reality. I expect you not to pay taxes, too. The Chamber of Commerce expects no taxes and this is also proposed by the opposition, which is very much appreciated. Your prediction that when you're in power, no taxes, it's a fantastic thing. See, zero rate for all business, industrial, agricultural and land and so on – where are we going?Oh, my God! The government also expected to receive $177 million from the tax on economic facilities and so on, now it will receive 32. But, tax, let's remember, it's not punishment. And just for the intermezza, we have so many words around the emergency centers, the E.R. at the Clinical Center and so on. It can be no different if there is no tax, if there is no budget for that when I need urgent funds – how can I not? We can hire 10, 15 doctors in just one section of the hospital, UKC; of course, if we reach the reserves and so on, this is another story. Or we can have this standard that we want, and I don't want anyone to need help at the emergency centre, but if there's no taxes, there's no standard, so there's taxes. But the fact that there was a lot of it in the past ran out here and there to save the banks, so banks are taking ATMs somewhere in the hills and the like -- that's another story, and that's what we need to talk about. I don't trust bankers, nobody else – to go out with names! But now the situation is like this, but these taxes will have to be collected and purposed fairly to survive, to start an economy and to keep this sector of social activity, social activity and so on, to preserve or improve, because it is a wish. The craftsman goes to the doctor sometimes, and the school goes to his children, and he gets a scholarship, and he's subsidized, watch out, subsidized in paying for kindergartens, I'll tell you cases, but he's still taking BMW to kindergarten for the baby and so on. She'll pay for the congregation. From what? Taxes! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u272	Thank you so much for saying that. Before Mr Möderndorfer was followed by a coalition, came as a storm, voted in favour of a procedural proposal and then took away the fog. Nobody's been here since the coalition to explain the amendment. Mr Möderndorfer, the first to be signed under the amendment of the coalition, would at least be enough to explain the meaning of the amendment. And he didn't even make it here, nor did he make an explanation. Otherwise, we can generally figure it out. Now in this last period, let it be the ex-Pahor's government or the current government of Alenka Bratušek. During both periods, there was a great deal of talk about justice and everything was compensated only by additional burdens or by cutting rights. Nothing else has happened during this period, not in one or the other. We're actually on the same page right now. There are extremely high barriers to many laws, such as the Forest Act, transport companies, restrictions on transport volumes. There are additional restrictions on the values, there are additional administrative obstacles, because if this government wants to do something, it has to do something about an administrative measure and redistribute something with another administrative measure. And that's all you do! The whole concept of this year's government of Alenka Bratušek deals only with this matter; by capturing where you can take it, and by redistributing it. Under the cover of social justice! However, what this government needs could only be obtained by some appropriate decision not to pay the bank hole of private bankers, because it is a billion and 30 million euros in guarantees and a few hundred million euros of cash at the same time, and that money that was thrown into that bank hole by Faktor Banka and Probanka would be earmarked for all other needs in that country for all other needs. A lot of this would remain, even for the purposes that you are currently discussing, even for emergency blocks, a lot of this money would remain for emergency blocks, for doctors, for investments and so on. Only these two banks, completely private, have collected or will collect a billion euro of budget money, from the people you are currently charging with real estate taxes. There's nothing else you've done in this area. In fact, we should ask where social justice is now, where social justice is. Is it social to charge income with property taxes, with restrictions on many other matters and other laws on persons on minimum wages or slightly higher, and this money collected in the budget is earmarked for the Factor Bank and Probank and covering those tycoon stories there? Is that it? Is that what the coalition does during this period? Indeed, the imposition of the property tax has not been considered. If the imposition of the property tax had been considered, the tax burden or the tax rate envisaged would have been different. In the process of adopting the law there last fall, we proposed a number of solutions with regard to the tax rate – anything could not have been achieved! Now that the Constitutional Court is threatening to repeal important provisions of the law or perhaps the whole law, we are dealing with a bill that is actually blocked. If anything happens in the Constitutional Court tomorrow from what I have said, there will be a law from which there will be more smoke, because we will accept it today and it will not be published – it will already be meaningless. That moment will be meaningless. And those coalition MPs who are talking about dealing with smart things in the National Assembly today could have made a different decision; your representatives could have made a different decision at the college. In order not to burden the National Assembly, we could vote that the item should not be placed on the agenda, that the decision of the Constitutional Court should be awaited and that it should then be taken to resolve the problem. And we're talking so forcefully here for a few hours for nothing. In the end, we're going to have to repeat this whole story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u273	Thank you, too. I note that there is still an interest in the debate. So I suggest you sign up for the debate. The word has magic. Marko Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u274	Dear President, thank you for your word, colleagues, colleagues! The coalition with the amendments it has proposed reminds me of the Dutch auction, and the Dutch auction is when the price starts to drop from the basic price. But this auction in the Netherlands is used for oatmeal flowers. And the married law is probably also this real estate that you have brought through and that is likely to be rejected by the Constitutional Court by at least one of the articles tomorrow. I think that the time has come for sobriety and that the coalition should be aware that all the measures and all the laws it has adopted during its period are being adopted to the detriment of the economy in particular. This real estate law, I believe that many of the Members of Parliament's position, have hardly pressed the key. However, the President of the Government has cornered you and tied you to a confidential budget. Madam Secretary of State, I would like to know how you will compensate for the loss of this income you intend to make if this amendment is voted today. According to some information, the 2014 budget is already cutting you more than €500 million. Will those words then come true at the hearing that the Minister of Economy said he was in favour of raising VAT? Can you now expect to ease the situation a little bit, but on the other hand you will start to raise VAT again? I would expect an answer from you how you will fill these matters. It should be borne in mind that the President of the Government has tied up a confidential trust and that the key charger of the 2014 budget was the real estate tax. I deeply regret that you are so coalition Members that you do not listen to the opposition, but you did not listen to the professional public in this law. The entire professional public mainly opposed this law, not the law as a whole, but the individual provisions. When will the sobriety come for you? What burden can the economy and taxpayers expect under this government? It should be borne in mind that only 80% of the estimated value is paid this year and next year and that these burdens will increase further over the coming years, regardless of your reduction. In what way will you ensure that this tax is actually collected and that there will be an influx? Say, Madam Secretary of State, what is today's tax debt or last month's tax debt? I believe it's over a billion strong. Over a billion uncollected taxes! Would it not be more reasonable to speed up the recovery of this tax and thus complete the budget, not to add new burdens. And that there are also certain exceptions, certain discounts and that certain people will not have to pay that tax again, or pay it, and then there will be no recovery. I think that this would be more meaningful and quality, especially if we want the economy to recover. You have not taken any amendments or comments from the Slovenian Democratic Party into account, not now, nor the month of November, when this law was passed in the late morning hours. I think for this fiasco, with this real estate tax and all that, someone has to take responsibility in the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u275	Given that the representative of the Government has already taken advantage of the time available, of course she cannot answer the questions raised and would also suggest that this should be taken into account in the discussions. However, I note that there are no applications for debate, so I am concluding the debate. The amendments will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. So at 5:40, we'll start voting. I hereby end this agenda item and also interrupt the 23rd meeting of the National Assembly, which we shall continue by vote, as I said, at 5.40 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u276	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Please check the operation of the voting devices. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 4. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[Against 0.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Does anyone else have to check the operation of the voting device because I'm in the middle? [[…]] Is he okay? We continue to decide on the amendment of Article 5 of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There were 80 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 47. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 8. Can we make a decision? We're voting. 82 Members and Members present, 31 votes against 48. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments and thus conclude my second reading of the bill. Since in the second reading amendments were adopted to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill and the draft law has already proposed, in the opening presentation, that the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, should carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting, we are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. Can we decide on this proposal? We're voting. 78 Members and Members present, 78 votes against. [[The vote was 78.]] [[Against 0.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The State Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill on Monday, 31. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendment and the article to which the amendment was adopted. The amendments to this Article may be tabled by the proposers before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the Financial Administration Bill under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We move on to Article 9 and under point 1, we decide on the amendment of Article 9 of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group. In doing so, we would like to remind you that if this amendment is adopted, the amendments under points two and three will become irrelevant. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, Mr Jakob Preseknik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u277	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary of State! We have been noticing for quite some time, for several years now, that the literal step-by-step approach to the country's institutions at the local level has been poorer. For example, we will give, for example, a meeting in our area about a year ago, where we have found that literally all institutions or, if I say domestically, the expositions of ministries cancel their positions at the local level and thus – I understand that this somehow reduces the cost of the country, but on the other hand we have prevented people, citizens and citizens from doing their jobs with some normal accessibility; and the tax offices are one of these offices where we have been doing it for quite some time. For example, Dr. Gregor Virant, as Minister of Public Administration about seven years ago, opened an administrative centre, specifically in Mozire, and then said that this was a sample example of the organisation of the state at the local level. That is the same word that he used in the presentation for the Minister of the Interior and Public Administration – and do you know where this sample case goes? This example goes on to slowly become, if I exaggerate a little bit, a house of fear. Individual representations are being phased out. I will give you an example of the Geodetic Authority, where one of the co-workers died, this fellow received compensation from the headquarters of the Geodetic Administration in Ljubljana. The tax administration means a depository, once or twice a day with one co-worker. Now we will do the same with some tax offices, specifically I think Velenje, Ptuj, I don't know, another one, I apologize – Kočevje. I'm sorry, President, but I'm out of my mind. This is certainly not in the direction of bringing the state and state offices closer to citizens and citizens. I therefore propose that we support this amendment, because at least we are holding back the current organisation.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u278	Thank you. Can we make a decision? More explanation for the vote on behalf of the members of the groups? Then I propose that you apply for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Mr Jožef Horvat will explain the position of the New Slovenia Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u279	Thank you very much, Mr President, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues! Let me say that the New Slovenia Group will support this amendment to Article 9 proposed by the Slovenian People's Party. I can practically continue to think of my colleague Jakob Presečnik and actually apply his statement to the statistical region of Pomurje. In recent years, we have lost quite a few important business entities in Pomour; starting with the Bank of Pomour, a company that is now more or less one little larger bank tent. Taking into account that it is 100% of state property, we are fighting for or against the abolition of New Ljubljana Bank’s banking units, today in 100% of state ownership – we have failed; we are fighting the abolition of post offices – we have succeeded in part here and it is only temporary and good that the Murska Sobota Financial Office, based in Murski Sobota, will remain within the administrative units of Gornja Radgone, Lendava, Ljutomer and Murska Sobota. In particular, due to the accessibility of citizens to such services, we need to be concerned that this network will be dense enough and we must not in any way allow certain regions, especially those far from Ljubljana, to lose the necessary conditions for establishing the provinces, when the political will is high enough for us to establish the provinces in Slovenia. At that time, the necessary conditions may be required for the province to be created if it has this and that, and if, for example, the province of Pomurje does not satisfy these conditions, it will simply not be able to become a province. Thus this amendment to Article 9 of the Colleague and colleagues of the Slovenian People's Party is certainly worthy of support.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u280	Thank you. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mr Andrej Chus, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u281	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, my friend! Otherwise, I would suggest that we abolish taxes, then we should not discuss tax offices at all. But given the tax policy of the government of Alenka Bratušek, I am sure that you too are likely to need a lot more tax offices in Slovenia. An amendment was adopted on the home work body, which abolishes tax offices on Ptuj, Velenj and Kočev. In the SDS Group alone, we support the amendment of our parliamentary group as well as, of course, the Slovenian People's Party parliamentary groups, which are going towards maintaining the current division of powers both local and municipal and to maintain the current organisation of tax offices in Slovenia until the status of regions is defined in the Republic of Slovenia. This, however, should be done by Dr. Virant, Minister of the Interior, but apparently today is more about finding cheap airline tickets. Let me also tell you, as representative of the Municipality of Ptuj, that the operation of the Ptuj Tax Office covers the areas of legal units Ptuj and Ormož, which means a total of 19 municipalities and 90,000 inhabitants of Slovenia. Many tax offices still in operation after this amendment are smaller, and I will not list them because I am aware of the importance of these institutions. But only three tax offices would fall out; therefore Ptuj, Velenje, and Kočev. However, the adopted amendment proposed by colleague Hršak at the time cannot detect the positive effects of the desired objectives after optimising costs and uniting services. The bill does not contain an assessment of the maintenance costs of these services in Slovenia. In view of the existing coverage of the Ptuj Tax Office, from which area I come, I estimate that this is an unacceptable intervention in the lower Podravje and the edge of the lower Podravja as a region. At the same time, I do not understand some representatives of the people from the Ptuj area and the surrounding areas who have allowed such decisions to be taken within the coalition. With such a change to the Law on Financial Administration, the government of Alenka Bratušek, especially the Ptujčane, returns to us 20 years ago when you had to take us to Maribor for every thing. This will result in additional costs for all and will further centralise our country. Let me also read to you the opinion of the President of the Chamber of Commerce Ptuj Vladimir Janžekovic: "If the tax office actually moves to Maribor, it will have this for our members who need daily certificates from tax administrations on taxes paid and, more importantly, additional costs and waste of time for their business. Even though business is more or less electronic, sometimes a lot needs to be cleared." That is why, of course, I call on all of you, especially from these areas. [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u282	Thank you. Mr Matevž Frangež will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u283	As you know, this question has triggered quite a few responses from some local environments. In particular, I agree that the question of the placement of individual organisational units of important state institutions must be regulated in a comprehensive manner and that one criterion cannot apply to financial offices, says the new exposures of the financial administration of the Republic of Slovenia, the other for administrative units and the like, and that it is also necessary in the context of rationalisation on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the broadest accessibility of citizens and economies, to regulate their administrative, tax and other matters in an accessible manner, to be considered in a comprehensive manner. That is why we will also support the coalition amendment, which keeps the article open, in order to preserve the current situation for a further period of time, while at the same time making it very clear that the country must reconsider the comprehensive concept of the organisation of the state administration and, in accordance with this comprehensive concept, place individual tasks in space. In doing so, let me remind you that we are talking in the National Assembly about rationalisation, the need for fiscal consolidation and the need for our public sector to be cheaper. In particular, the opposition's representatives have a strong lead on this issue. But as soon as we get to the question of where something can be rationalized, let's immediately stop at the question: no, we don't give units of this and this office in our place! And here, a little more moderation and balance will be needed in the future. I think it is important that citizens have access to the various tasks they have in contact with the country, but at the same time, on the other hand, it is important to take into account the need to organise the work of these institutions in a rational way. The Social Democrats will therefore support the coalition amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u284	Thank you. Can we decide whether the interest in explaining the vote is in a personal name? I'd like to ask you to sign up for an explanation of vote. Mr. Andrey Chus has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u285	Thank you for your word. Those words, of course, made me quite happy, Mr. Franz. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u286	By immediately warning that we should give our position to others, we should not compromise with others, for then we will come to that stage of challenging debates. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u287	Actually, I wanted to commend you, so you'll have the damage, not me. When Mr Frangež spoke about the amendment which spoke of the coalition, he said that everything was defined in the regulation, which, of course, is more appropriate to regulate such content by means of a sub-legislative regulation. So now the government is going to make something up overnight, someone is going to say something, and then we're going to change that. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that such an important area in which we are talking about the functioning of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia should be enshrined in the law. And if you have been so successful here by some members of the government coalition, because we can look at the municipalities where this has been defined so far, I propose that we accept one of the amendments from both the Slovenian People's Party and the Slovenian Democratic Party and define in the law where the tax offices will be, where not. What you are doing today is moving and politicising, because I believe that a number of Members from this area will not then hope to walk in these environments for a while, let us pour some pure wine and let us acknowledge that I am working for the interests of the government, not for the interests of my environment. Good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u288	Thank you. Mr Darko Jazbec has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u289	Thank you for the opportunity to explain your voice. In principle, it wouldn't even be necessary if Comrade Chus didn't argue twice with me, so now I have to. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u290	Mr. Jazbec, the same is true – only yours [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u291	Of course, but for that very purpose, I will explain my voice so that I can walk on Ptuj further. In fact, there is no need to support this amendment, since it is further regulated so that everything remains the same — simply stated — so that the tax office, including on Ptuj, remains and then there is no need to support this amendment. I am pleased that this government has also had a hearing for these regions and remote smaller places and has not done the same as the previous government, which has abolished the regional information centres, where it has actually been a matter of life, not just to pay taxes. This government has brought these regional centres back and I will proudly walk on Ptuj. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u292	Thank you, too. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u293	In this amendment, which we have tabled in the Slovenian People's Party, we want to follow that it will not be possible for each minister to make a separate structure of the Republic of Slovenia and the administrative division of the Republic of Slovenia. During the interview with Minister Virant, we have proposed that, even on the committees before, we make a joint group where all the members of the group would sit down and agree on how we will have an organised administration in the future. You agree on your own that we have a polycentric development in Slovenia. It is appropriate that these administrative functions are developed and distributed in a polycentric manner, and with this amendment, which we are proposing, we want exactly what the Member has now mentioned in order to keep the situation the way it is. We do not want this to change over and over again, nor do we want it to change as it was adopted on the committee when it came to the amendment committee itself, which has broken some similar content as we now propose in the Slovenian People's Party; it is said that the existing situation is being preserved. That is why I think it is really best to support this first amendment, with this amendment we also maintain such a structure and do not disturb in unnecessary different environments across Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u294	Thank you. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u295	Thank you very much. So if the coalition is going to keep things the way they are, then it can't get past not supporting our amendment. In your coalition amendment, you wrote that the content is regulated by a law. This means far away from the Members, somewhere in the offices of a particular ministry; unless, of course, you mean in the third reading then to correct your own amendment, upgrade, in fact, in this direction as we do. This means that this will be enshrined in the law, if not at least until regionalisation, until regionalisation is carried out in this country. How to rationalise the functioning of state authorities, administrations throughout the country? The answer is regionalisation. If we had this, we would have used European funds today, if we had regionalisation, the Slovenian economy would be in a significantly better position, in a significantly better condition, and of course you are centralising. More! You've collected the original revenue from the municipalities and you're centralizing it. In short, I respect my fellow Member Jazbec very much, but I cannot trust him, because of course he will not decide on behalf of the coalition, but the other – his is only one vote – so it is most correct to support this – on the one hand; on the other hand, colleagues and colleagues from SD, your secretary of state wrote us a letter. Yeah, well, what are you gonna do about it now? [[…]] Your client on Ptuj advocates preservation and this is recorded in the law. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u296	Mr. Pukšič, the same goes for you. The explanation of the voice does not allow for polynomialization.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u297	These are the facts, because I tell you the truth, I tell you what I have on my desk. I will, of course, support our amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u298	Thank you. Mr Ivan Simčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u299	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, welcome to the meeting. Let's move to the eastern part of the country a little bit. Nothing's stopping us because it's already been canceled. Nothing's changing there. Nothing! They've already taken the Geodetic Authority, the tax office, the court is going, they've built us modern highways, viaducts, overpasses, undercarriages, the plan is only to the edge of the congregation, but we don't know yet. But that's all on paper. It's a reality. My second congregation is by chance the largest in the congregation. And rationalization – that's good, you know! There's a worker driving to work five kilometers, ten miles. Today, this area is computer-populated, with the Internet, with the phone — now this worker will drive 50 kilometers! Rationalization. You can't believe it! And that's what we do in the countryside. He will vote in favour of the amendment, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u300	Thank you, too. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u301	Thank you for your word. I'll support the amendment. In view of the experience we have so far with the adoption of legislation, including by means of sub-legislative acts, we all know that this is merely a pious desire that in the next step this regulation will not change and that it depends only on the goodwill of an official. But we are the legislative part, and we need to legalise things if we want them to stay, as we have seen from the debate. In principle, I do not agree to such rationalisations as proposed, because all the rationalisations proposed with regard to the state administration always go in the direction of moving from the periphery to the centre. When I see the first rationalisation in a way that reduces the number of employees in some centres in Ljubljana, I may consider supporting it. Until all the rationalisations that state officials bring go only to the point of moving some services from the periphery to the centres, but even to increase costs, with all the talk on the big introduction of e-governments and internet access and the evidence that people can also access certain information on the periphery, we now want to centralise and bring all things into one building, as if it were necessary for people to be in one place. With all the communication we can get through! If you are agreeing to the challenges presented by certain ministers and ministries, that rationalisation is only in the case of a rural service that is paid by the State and is also provided with jobs, that we have moved to a larger centre, we are on a very bad path. I will absolutely support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u302	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u303	Thank you for your word. In order not to create in the public a feeling that coalition Members and Members do not accept things such as the regional and spatial coverage of state offices and administrations, in order to bring this as close to the citizens and citizens as possible, let me say that, despite rejecting and personally rejecting the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group because we have our amendment, the coalition has its own amendment, which we will support and thereby leave open space and an open article for third reading, which has already been announced by counterpart Frangež to modify in the third reading. Of course, we are for the services of the public authorities to come closer and not for anyone from Kočev to make arrangements in Ljubljana, not from Velenje to Celje, nor from other places, so in this part that I think the law is a bit weak, we will also arrange for the territorial coverage of financial administrations in such a way that it will be sufficient for citizens and citizens. Well, I will not support this amendment, but I will support the amendment of the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u304	Thank you. Can we make a decision? Mr. Frangež in his own name, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u305	First, remember when we decided in the National Assembly on the energy law or, for example, on the law on investment in railway infrastructure? In both cases it was the institutions established in Maribor, the Energy Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the Directorate for Investment in Public Railway Infrastructure. In both cases, an assessment was taken over, a very formal assessment that the seat of these state institutions, which has already been in Maribor and is still today, does not belong to the law that this is not legal matter. Now let me agree to the logic that we will write in the law not the seats of institutions, but the seats of fifteen exposures of individual institutions! I claim that this is not legal matter; under the same criteria as an important part of the national assembly in the adoption of the two laws, it was claimed that the seat of institutions in Maribor is not legal matter. Second; yes, Secretary of State Levanic wrote one letter; that the Grand Mayor Kontič reacted very loudly and that, also the President of the National Assembly, from Kočev, warned that after the amendment adopted, the Tax Office in Kočev would no longer exist and warned Ivan Hršk and that Matjaž Zanoškar and Andrej Čuša insisted that we decided to freeze the situation for now, these offices would remain where they are today, but that we need to think in detail, and that does not mean that he will eventually announce the amendment that we will now actually support, but that amendment that we will accept in the third reading. Mr. Hear, I'll be grateful if you'll listen more carefully next time.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u306	Thank you. The voice would like to explain Mr. Jakob Presecnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u307	I agree with what my colleague Simčič said before, and I am not fighting for my constituency, because, as I said before, most things have already been abolished in our places. In this case, I am fighting to ensure that this accessibility remains as good for people as it is for comparing with various agencies and directorates, of course, it is not sustainable. We offices, the expositions of individual ministries are needed because of people and companies, because of the economy. Of course, I don't have this information as to what they might have agreed and set out under the table, and so on, but the solution that is in the coalition amendment means that, without any further discussion by us, the Government or any minister alone can determine – that is, on a proposal from the Minister, the Government will determine where the tax offices will be established or where citizens and citizens and representatives of the economy can continue to address their tax problems, in particular. For this reason, I am convinced that this must be decided by the National Assembly and only in this way, if we adopt the first or second amendments, that is our amendment or the SDS amendment, this will be possible. So once again, as a Member, I will support our amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u308	Thank you. Can we make a decision? The explanation of vote continues to be so that I suggest you apply. The word has magic. Barbara Žgeiner.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u309	Thank you very much, President, for your word. I didn't even want to come forward, but I think it's right for me to explain how I'm going to vote on this and both of the next amendments that are tabled under Article 9. The fact is that if we are talking about what happened in the past, at least under the left or right governments, I hope that the Zasavska region is a school example of the centralisation of this country where we lost vital institutions. And I'm going to give you a case that my colleague, Jazbec, mentioned before me. The former government, the right-wing government, has easily undermined the system of regional information centres under the pretext of rationalisation and lean states, and is one of the most important vital institutions on which people depend. At that time, those who today see how important the institutions that our government is fighting are, I don't know, you didn't care at the time. However, I hope and I want the ministry to keep its word, not least this is one of the commitments that has been made jointly with the coalition Members in coalition coordination, and this is also one of the points on which we have insisted on coalition Members coming from distant, if you will, endangered regions. I simply cannot support the law unless it announces an agreement; this means that the tax offices or tax administrations will remain where they are today. That's why I'm not going to support the first two amendments. I'm going to support the coalition amendment. Once again; in the third reading there will be, and I hope to say this out loud and I hope that you will honour the promise, otherwise we will prepare an amendment to the Members – in short, that the Government will not change tax offices by special regulation, but we will do so by members of the National Assembly. [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u310	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We vote on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party to Article 9(1). We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 33 votes against 47. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under point 2, we decide on the amendment of Article 9 of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Mr Andrej Chus has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u311	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, our amendment is very similar to the previous amendment, which was tabled by the Slovenian People's Party, which we also supported. It is essentially about maintaining the current composition and organisation of the work of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, how the first vote was carried out, I suggest you write down that there is only one tax office in the Municipality of Ljubljana. Here today you are selling us this story of changes in the third reading as a promise to the Prime Minister of the new 60,000 jobs. And I'm sorry, I don't believe you, and I don't think I believe you. Today, there are two amendments to define the number of tax offices in the Republic of Slovenia, and you are now thinking something, inventing and looking for a way out of the crisis. Why don't you suggest, and now let's accept, and then we'll go with the calm conscience to the third reading, if that's how you are, I don't know, you know, you hope so much, or you ask me not to know who everyone is. In short, in the opposition I hope to say, at least in the SDS Group, we do not believe these promises, especially because of duality. I've read my position here, too. "The abolition of the Ptuj Tax Office is again one of the stories when he wants something taken away on Ptuj without any arguments. For the abolition of three offices, Ptuj, Velenje and Kočev to bring rationalisation is something that certainly does not drink water. We cannot afford such a thing in the Municipality of Ptuj," stressed Dejan Levanič, President of SD Ptuj and Secretary of State. Be assured, however, that this duality of the Slovenian people is being monitored and identified [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u312	Mr. Chus, you're polarizing. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u313	Yes, I conclude, Mr. President. I didn't compliment your colleague, so of course I have to finish. I'll say it. On Ptuj, we have a world-renowned tutoring and I sincerely hope that if any of the members of the coalition will attend next time and today will not support this amendment – I do not know if they would rather go elsewhere. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u314	Thank you. Can we make a decision? Does anyone else want to explain their voice on behalf of the parliamentary groups? No, no, no. We are moving on to an explanation of the vote on our own behalf and I suggest that you be more than welcome to apply for an explanation. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u315	Thank you for your word. Like the previous amendment, I will support this one. I have already explained that I do not believe that the regulation will ensure that the number of offices remains unchanged. The experience from the environment from which the office is being abolished also meant, as in all cases when public services are moving away from citizens, to inevitably increase the costs for citizens. No minister, no ministry, ever takes this into account in any calculation. There are always some savings to the country or to the budget, no one ever calculates how much additional damage we cause to citizens who, due to such a measure, have to spend significantly more time for a given office than before, substantially more fuel because they go by their vehicles or by public transport. Nobody's counting on it, and they're also taxpayers for whom we make decisions. I hope you're all aware of what we're doing with such measures. And no one has yet brought in any correct calculation of how much we are actually saving the state budget with such changes. Most of the time it turns out that, at least in the initial stage, the costs are even higher, and in these offices where individual units join, the number of employees is even increasing. We lie to citizens to reduce costs. Who? Not even to ourselves, because we're taxpayers too. Thus, this amendment, which we are proposing, I absolutely support and advocate that these institutions remain dispersed throughout the country, because we do not increase or devour the state budget. Key expenditure is elsewhere.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u316	Thank you. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u317	Thank you so much for saying that. The amendment proposed by our Group of Members will be supported. I think it's okay for the tax office to stay in Kočev as well. I have a bad experience from the previous part of the National Assembly as regards the realisation of promises. For example, we proposed an amendment of €70 million for state roads, which included a project to continue the construction of the third belt – the coalition rejected it. We proposed €70 million for railways, as it was also envisaged to continue the reconstruction of the railway line against Kočev – the coalition rejected it. It was said that coalition Members would ensure the continuation of both projects in another way – both of them stand. The continuation of the renovations shall not continue. It seems to me that now is actually the right time to stop this tension and bluffing slowly. It is also true that in an area such as Kočevje, such as the Ribnik-Kočevski section, where there are enormous problems of employment, employment, and development in particular in the nomadic work, this office remains there and that it remains as it is supposed to be in the context of the marriage solution. However, it does not seem logical and appropriate, nor is it dignified, that the coalition says that they will first support a regulation and then return the solution to what we are proposing in the opposition, both in the People's Party or in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Why don't we just support this right now? Why work for work if you finally accept the solution we have proposed? If they were good intentions, if they had a goal like ours, then they would support this amendment. But if you just need a bluff, a step to get things moving and moving and nothing will happen, then God help this country. I'll support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u318	Thank you. Mrs Sonja Ramshak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u319	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will, of course, support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, as I also supported the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party. In fact, until we resolve regionalisation or this level of local self-government, it seems to me that any abolition of state institutions is essentially unacceptable. Why tax offices, anyway? See, when the state is unable to collect 950 million uncollected taxes, 250 million contributions, it is absurd that we are now abolishing three offices, especially in the area of Ptuj, Kočev or Velenje! It is also unacceptable that citizens and citizens should actually take a path under their feet and go to another place or other congregation. This also proved to be the case when the signatures for the referendum were quickly collected. Those of us on the ground have seen what our citizens and citizens face when they do not have local administrative units. Here some large congregations have no local offices at all, other congregations have only once a week, and I can tell you that given the social distress of people when they have no money to have for travel expenses to go and regulate their documents in their own congregation or in their own territory, it is unacceptable for us to terminate these institutions! However, as regards comparisons with regional centres and the abolition of regional centres, there can be no comparison here because there are people coming to administrative offices or tax offices to regulate matters. While regional centres mean calling 112, this could also work from one strong centre, professionally and technically well-trained. This is the essential difference in this matter. Of course, I support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Parties.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u320	Thank you. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u321	Thank you very much. As before, we will support this amendment. The fact is, in the law and in the amendment tabled by the coalition saying that everything will remain the same as before is not true. In fact, this is where customs and tax administrations are now coming together. The law's been rewritten. At nine o'clock. Article 2, in the second paragraph, you will make a dot where it says "...of the financial offices and the delimitation of tasks between them shall be determined by the Government by a regulation." Pika. You will only delete "in the framework of 12 statistical regions as defined by the State Statistics rules". So the government sets out by regulation. If you do not upgrade this in the third reading, which, of course, is hard to believe, then you have abolished these tax offices, and perhaps another one, because you will be able to do so by the arbitral ministers alone. We know what anomalies are happening, when Minister Virant only replaced the chiefs of the administrative units, where he could work arbitrarily. But that the tax administration of Ptuj by its operation is a thorn in the heel, not in our area, but in the Ljubljana area, of course we also know. We know that they brought the case from 2008 to 2010 to the end of 2011, when it was due to end, it was taken and brought to Ljubljana. What's up? Today we are 2014, and to this day this matter has not been clarified, but it has been a million-dollar tax evasion. Therefore, dear colleagues and colleagues, the SDS amendment must be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u322	Thank you. Before we decide on this amendment, I just want to read a warning: The amendment will be adopted, and the amendment under point three will become irrelevant. It is also an interest to explain your vote, so I suggest you apply for explanations of vote. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u323	The amendment speaks of the situation remaining the same as the adoption of a new organisation of local self-government. Is that right? Hold it! The organisation of financial administrations, administrative units and other state institutions has nothing to do with local self-government. This is why we are talking about the situation remaining the same as the whole reorganisation of the state administration. Public administration is what needs to be referred to. It should also be noted that this provision, which is of a transitional nature, does not fall within 9. Article, therefore, as previously stated by me and some other coalition colleagues, we will propose such a supplement in the third reading to Article 104 of the Law, so that this question of transitional nature will be settled in the place in the law to which it belongs. So, I will not support the amendment of the SDS Group because it is also substantively inadequate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u324	Thank you. Mrs. Alexander Osterman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u325	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I won't support the opposition amendment alone. I can't support it. However, I will support the amendment to Article 104, which leaves the article open. And I've been assured that nothing will change completely in Kočev. I myself, as colleague Žgajner Tavš said, will be watching over the promises of the Ministry, so that it will carry out its promises and ensure that nothing changes completely for Kočevje. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u326	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u327	Thank you very much. I will support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which remains as one hope, because you, colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, have rejected the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party. In your amendment, the coalition is a trap; you're talking about twelve statistical regions, which means that probably every statistical region will have just one office. However, if you look at the amendment of the colleagues of the Slovenian People's Party, there are fourteen of them on the list, they say at least two are cancelled.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u328	Mr Matjaž Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u329	Ladies and gentlemen, we've been together for three years and we have to trust each other in some way, Chuš, it would be good if it were possible within three years or two, since you've been in the National Assembly, you wouldn't laugh for at least one minute. [[…]] [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u330	Mr. Han, polynomization will not be allowed [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u331	Yeah, but one thing. [[…]] I, if Joze Tank says something, I trust Joseph Tank and trust him if we make a deal. We all come from a local community, one of you coming from some local communities that, thank God, some state authorities and institutions are still going to keep, and some of us are coming from municipalities that unfortunately have no administrative units, we have no institutions and so on, and for us this moment is not important. But if we've decided in the coalition to keep tax offices like them, believe us, we'll keep such tax offices. Not to me, Virant, not to Cuffer, not to say what we're going to do as long as the Social Democrats are in the government. And we've kept the administrative units the way we want, we'll keep the tax authorities, and so on. And I no longer allow you to tell us that you don't trust us, because we all come from some local community that we have some electorate and electorate behind us. I ask you so kindly, trust for at least one day that we'll make it right for everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u332	Thank you. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u333	Thank you very much, President. Well, speaking of trust, it's really incredible to hear this mistrust from this side. Look, it's been exactly nine days since the previous government, when Janez Janša served as Minister of Finance, Andrej Šircelj was Secretary of State and Marko Pogačnik was the same at the Ministry when they proposed this same law that we are talking about today. And in the ninth article they proposed – what? What they're talking about today with their big mouths right here in front of the screens says they don't want it. Of course they're laughing because they know what the hell they're proposing. The tasks, local authority, area, headquarters of the General Finance Office and financial offices shall be determined by the Government. Don't fool around and make a fool out of us. We will turn this into a 104th Article and say it very clearly and loudly. But you'll have exactly half an hour to experience this, and wait at least half an hour. Thank you very much, and I will not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u334	Thank you. Voice explanation, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u335	Thank you. You have certainly convinced me that there are other reasons why I would vote for our amendment, besides those we have written ourselves to explain the amendment. In fact, if you're talking about trust, you know, you only remember a week ago when the president of the government said she didn't even know the new president of KPK, and the next day the papers published a picture where they're looking very kindly together at a joint meeting. So much for this trust and that [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u336	Mr. Grimes, let's stay on whether you support the amendment or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u337	We know each other well. [[…]] As Winston Churchill said, in politics, trust is good, but control is even better. And for that, I will certainly vote in favour of our amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u338	Yeah, I'm sorry. Mr. Jakob Presecnik, explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u339	Thank you very much. I didn't mean to come by anymore because I said before that I would vote for our amendment, but if it wasn't adopted, I would be encouraged by the word "trust" for the amendment of my colleagues from SDS. For a very long time I have been in the National Assembly, although today someone has said that those of us who have long been able to be ashamed of us, I do not know, I am not, I think we have done a lot in this National Assembly – but trust. Of course, I need to know what to trust or what to agree on. I apologize for earlier saying that under the table, you must have been at the table or at the tables talking about it, but we don't have this information if you confirm it or not. That's why I have nothing to trust, if you tell me clearly what the deal is, I will trust you, and of course I will. However, if the agreement is what the solution will be in the third reading, I simply do not understand why this solution is not already in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u340	Thank you. Can we make a decision? Therefore, we are deciding on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 9, and, as I warned earlier, if this amendment is adopted, the amendment under point 3 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 46. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under point 3, we decide on the amendment of the Coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 9. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 18. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia and the National Gazette to Article 43. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 2. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia and the National List to 79a. Article 1(2) Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 104 and under point 1. we are deciding on the amendment of the members of the positive Slovenia Group and the Civil Gazette to Article 104. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Under point 2, we decide on the amendment of Article 104 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded the decisions on the amendments and thus conclude the second reading of the bill. I now give the floor to the representative of the Government as a proposal for a bill because he wants to make a proposal for further consideration. The word has magic. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u341	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since amendments to less than one-tenth of the articles were adopted at the second reading, we propose that the third hearing be held at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u342	Thank you. On the basis of this proposal, the National Assembly, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, will hold a third consideration of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. I would like to point out that a decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. Can we make a decision? We're voting. Excuse me? Voice explanation, procedural proposal? What's this about, Mr. Zanoskar? For a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u343	Procedural; in this respect, as has already been announced, we will table an amendment in the third reading. Therefore, on behalf of the applicants, we propose that the third meeting be held, but not today.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u344	Mr Zanoškar, we are currently in the decision to hold a third hearing at this meeting, and when this vote is done, I will also invite you to submit an amendment to this article or to an open article. We therefore decide to hold a third hearing at this meeting. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 25. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 25.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The State Assembly will thus carry out its third consideration of the bill on Monday, 31. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. This also interrupts this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We move on to Article 7 and decide on the amendment of Article 7 of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Can we make a decision? Mrs Mateja Pučnik has an explanation for the vote on behalf of the delegation.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u345	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We will certainly support the amendment to Article 7 in the parliamentary group, as we have tabled it ourselves. Already in the debate on this amendment, we have said that by deleting Article 7 we want to make this bill more transparent at least in this part and that it would offer less opportunities for any corruption or not transparent action in the distribution of lottery money. We want to maintain the regulation enshrined in this existing law, that the rules and criteria for the distribution of lottery money are established within the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Activities and not on the proposal of the Assembly of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, which already has an absolute majority in the foundation's world. Given that a similar solution has already been voted on the parental committee, it is almost identical, so that these rules for the distribution of money are set within the Sports Foundation Council, we are obviously all of the same opinions and we all feel that this solution is appropriate. We therefore believe that the coalition with the support of this amendment should not have any problems. We will support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u346	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We are voting on the amendment of Article 7 of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 32 votes against 45. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to Article 14 and we are deciding on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 14. Can we make a decision? We're voting. 77 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 3. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have thus concluded our decision on the amendments, and thus I am concluding a second reading of the bill. Since the amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading and the bill's proposer proposed that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should hold a third consideration of the draft law at that meeting, we are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We vote on this decision. 80 Members and Members present, 48 votes against 29. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 29.]] I note that the decision I apologize for, more than a third of the Members present objected. [[…]] Since the proposed decision has not been adopted, the assembly will hold its third consideration of the draft law at its next meeting. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the National Assembly that it adopt the following decision: the draft law for the third reading be prepared by the Government. Can we decide this decision? We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 76 votes against one or one. (The vote was 76.)(against 1.) I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 2nd item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending the Real Estate Tax Act, the urgent procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled by 27. 3. 2014, published on the e-club. We turn to the first article and to the decision on the amendment under point 1. The proposal is the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here I note that if the amendment under point 1 is adopted, the amendments under points 2, 3 and 4 are irrelevant. The Minister Andrej Šircelj has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u347	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, despite our opposition to such a way of enacting the law and to such content of the law, we wanted to ease the destructive provisions of this law for the Slovenian economy and the Slovenian countryside, so we proposed that those properties that serve the creation of new added value should be exempt or not taxed. These are properties used by entrepreneurs benefiting from farmers who are in short benefit to all those who generate added value and who, after all, are taxed as a result on this added value or on the profit or income of legal persons. Such a solution would at least partially mitigate the extremely bad effects this law has on the Slovenian economy and on Slovenian agriculture. If the Government wants and if the coalition actually wants to make the conditions for the economy and agriculture to create new jobs, then such a bill or amendment will be supported. If not, then this is another story, then this law will primarily have a fiscal effect, especially burdening the economy and agriculture excessively. We estimate that to such an extent, many entrepreneurs and many farmers will not withstand such a burden. This, of course, means more bankruptcy, more forced settlement, fewer jobs and less economic growth. We have been in the Slovenian Democratic Party all the time in recent months when we have dealt with this law, constructively, we have proposed a number of amendments, we have proposed proposals that have been constructive, also in the direction of greater legal certainty for taxpayers and also in the direction of greater operationality of the law itself. Unfortunately, the coalition has not accepted any of our proposals; it has voted on the law as it is. The law is before the Constitutional Court, tomorrow there will be a decision and we will see what will be the next steps of the Constitutional Court, the Government and, of course, also Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek, who has tied the trustee to the budget, part of which is also the Real Estate Tax Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u348	Thank you. Can we decide on the amendment under point one? A voice explanation, in your own name? Mrs. Romana Tomc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u349	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Of course, I will support the amendment we tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party. In fact, we are going in a direction that we are defending all the time, even in our policy; in the direction of decommissioning the tax obligations of those who are creating new added value and new jobs in this country. That is why we have proposed the exemption of property tax for business buildings, business buildings, because we want to make the Slovenian economy more competitive. We listened to them, and they warned them all the time that these additional burdens seriously harm their economy. Not only that, we have also proposed that the payment of this tax should be exempt from the payment of homes for the elderly. This will have a significant impact if this tax, as proposed, is adopted, also on the price of home services for the elderly. The proposal that we have on the table today will not be believed, it taxes homes more for older people than energy facilities. That's just amazing. Of course, what was happening today in the National Assembly and what is happening all the time is a mere auction. It's not a systemic approach, it's not a systemic tax, as we're always listening to it as it's supposed to be. Our direction and our solutions, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u350	Mrs. Tomc, do not argue with the others, explain why you will support or not support.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u351	I just wanted to say that our direction and our solutions are not going to this bidding, but they are always the same, in the direction of decommissioning the economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u352	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We vote on the amendment under Article 1, paragraph 1, of the proposed Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. We're voting. 82 Members and Members are present. It was 32 votes against 48. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under point two, the amendment's proposed Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, and here I point out that if the amendment under point 2 is adopted, the amendments under points 3 and 4 are irrelevant. Can we make a decision? Mr Franz Bogovic has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u353	Colleagues and colleagues, in the Slovenian People's Party today, we did not intend to table amendments until the coalition did so and made sure that they obviously want to make some changes in the direction of economic correction. We estimate that what is proposed in the last amendment, which will obviously be voted today, where the rates from 0.75 are reduced to 0.59, is a small step; a step that does not follow the needs of the small economy, tourism, which warns most of the economy of the high burdens, which will also require the fall of jobs that we need in these important sectors. In addition, we have proposed that taxation for agricultural facilities should be reduced from 0,30 to 0,15 and that agricultural land and forests that have not been taxed so far and that, following the amendment of the Real Estate Law, these taxes should be exempt. The less tax collected is estimated by the Secretary of State to be 107 million from what was originally envisaged, but this would mean a 50 % increase in taxes previously at the level of 200 million, and with such an amendment would be at some level of 300 million. In particular, we are trying to remedy the situation in those areas that we think will be the most problematic for growth, in order to make more jobs. Therefore, we ask you to support this amendment and to at least partially remedy this situation. However, we still hope, despite the fact that we are making a completely unnecessary decision today in the National Assembly that a key decision on the real estate tax will be taken by the Constitutional Court tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u354	Thank you. We can decide on the amendment under point 2, the proposed amendment of the Slovenian People's Party. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 48. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under point 3. The amendment is proposed by the New Slovenia Group. Here too, if the amendment under point 3 is accepted, the amendment under point 4 is irrelevant. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group is mag. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u355	The amendment in some way equates the entire economy, it goes to the level of taxation that energy has, so that the whole economy has the same tax rate, that is 0,40. We didn't make it up, but we did it at the request of the guest-tourist chamber. I told you before that for just one small term, the tax will increase from €8,000 to €60,000, which means 3 fewer jobs. Earlier, the Secretary of State had said that if this amendment had been adopted, it would have meant 71 million less for the state account. Perhaps in the short term, but it is necessary to view this 71 million as an incentive for the economy to relieve the Slovenian economy for this 71 million so that it can bring more jobs into the state budgets and ultimately bring them into the state treasury. Now, you have already rejected the two amendments, I think that if this amendment were to confirm that the coalition would nevertheless remain consistent, because only the tax rate for the entire economy would be equal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u356	Thank you. Can we decide on the amendment under point 3? We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 48. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under point 4, the proposed amendment of the coalition's parliamentary group. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have completed the vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the urgent procedure. I note that, in second reading, the National Assembly has adopted amendments to Article 1 of the amended bill and I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. I'm guessing there are no notations to the word. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I reiterate that no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a third reading law. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. Can we make a decision? Explanation of voice. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the members of the groups and I ask you to apply. Mr Jože Tanko has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u357	Thank you so much for your words, distinguished president, respected colleagues! On behalf of the Group of Members, I announce the obstruction of the Group of Members in voting on the law as a whole. We will not cooperate because the law imposes excessive burdens on citizens' personal property, excessive burdens on business assets, economic operators. We will not take part in the vote because it preserves double taxation of agricultural land, even though you have adopted the Real Estate Tax Act, you keep the Cadastrian Income Act. Then we will not take part in this, because taxes are not exempt or at zero rates taxed social facilities, especially homes for older citizens. The law preserves the confiscation of property in cases where a taxable person cannot pay his or her obligations, and in this case it is a particular discrimination against those taxable persons, because in those cases where the property of illegal origin has occurred, this government, this coalition has failed to do nothing in this area. In this case, when it comes to the tax procedure, there will be a burden or a seal on the property. We also do not want to take part in the vote because the coalition did not take into account any proposals, nor in the autumn examination of the law that is now the subject of a Constitutional Court ruling, nor in this consideration when we proposed a well-intentioned solution that would place tax burdens more proportionately, more justly. The Constitutional Court will decide on the law tomorrow. We also believe that it is inappropriate for the Government to come forward with the amendment of the law just before the Constitutional Court's judgment has been delivered, and given that this law will not be made public for another seven days, it means that the Constitutional Court's judgment will be the one that in many ways can undermine the foundations of this law before it is declared. In short, for a number of reasons, the parliamentary group will not participate in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u358	Thank you. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, New Slovenia's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u359	Dear colleagues and colleagues from the coalition! I think that since the early morning, the Christian Democrats have asked you two things; firstly, we have asked you to postpone the treatment of this tax, however, for a period of time following the decision of the Constitutional Court. That wish we had not been heard. After we have devoted our entire day to dealing with this law, however, we have devoted ourselves and made great efforts to make the most of our decisions to the Slovenian economy and to make the most of our contributions, which we can do to keep as many jobs as possible and ultimately to keep as many payers in the state budget as possible. We have proposed amendments, all of our things have not been heard, so even in the New Slovenia Group we see absolutely no reason to participate in the decision-making of this law, because we have not been able to achieve anything and we do not want to give the legitimacy of this process. This is how we predict the obstruction of this vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u360	Thank you. Mr Michael Prevc, the Slovenian People's Party's Group, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u361	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Members and Members of the Slovenian People's Party will also not participate in the vote on this law for a simple reason, in particular out of respect for the Institute of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court will decide tomorrow on the final fate of this law and unfortunately our proposal was not taken into account on Monday, however, that it would make sense for us to decide on this law only after the Constitutional Court has known the fate of this law. I must say that, after today's debate also by the proposed amendment of the coalition, and last but not least, this novelty brings a little less burden on the economy, but for entrepreneurs, but in the Slovenian People's Party we believe that this is much, much less. Again: I also predict obstruction for the Slovenian People's Party at this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u362	Thank you. Can we move on to a decision?, There is still an interest in explanations of vote. On behalf of the parliamentary groups? In your own name? On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, he has the floor. Mr Matovž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u363	We will, whenever difficult decisions are to be made, remain in the Chamber and today adopt important amendments to the Real Estate Tax Act. With them, we will remove the confusion created by the distinction between residential and non-residential properties, provide more time to regulate records and place the tax dose in later times. Above all, after the coalition amendment adopted today, we will also make sure that the real estate tax burden is slightly reduced from 0.75 per cent to 0.59 per cent. We therefore believe it is important to stay here and vote in favour of the adoption of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u364	Thank you. On his own behalf, an explanation of vote, Mr. Bojan Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u365	Thank you very much. I don't understand the opposition who left the hall either. I mean, regardless of what the Constitutional Court will decide, that this amendment to the law, where we have heard it, rather than talking about the law, is significantly better for our citizens, as the non-residents will pay instead of 0.50, 0.15, we will extend the deadlines for the regulation of records and more than 20 per cent of these taxes have been reduced for economic operators. I think that this is an essential relief and that it will be significantly easier for our citizens to breathe with this novel as well. I think it's a good idea to confirm it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u366	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We're voting on the law. There are 51 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. We still have an obligation to the second law, so we are moving on to the conclusion of the legislative procedure for the proposed law, which was not the basis for the drafting of the amended proposal for a law. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Real Estate Tax Act, the first consideration submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first signed by Jozet Tank, is not suitable for further consideration. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 4. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, these are questions from Members and Members. Under point 1, the MEP will be in accordance with the proposal. The meeting decided on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of Mags. Alenka Bratušek, on the question of the MPs. Matthew Tonin regarding the extension of Slovenian companies. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u367	If words hold, then I am sure that this proposal should be adopted without any major difficulty. All government representatives at the Committee on the Economy's meeting argued in one voice that this is necessary and necessary debate, and I believe that the National Assembly will also assess this as our important contribution, in order to make something concrete in order to make Slovenian companies more deliberative. We have two tools; one is insolvency law, the other is a bad bank. Both have problems, irregularities, or need both tools to improve. I am sure that this debate can make an important contribution, so I ask you to contribute your vote to this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u368	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 26 votes against 48. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under point two, in accordance with the proposal of the MEP, mag. Andrej Širclja will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of Mags. Alenke Bratušek on the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the The explanation for the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group is mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u369	Thank you very much, distinguished president, colleagues and colleagues! Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek's response was not at the level of the Prime Minister. We have not received an answer, nor how we will repay ourselves, nor have we received an answer on how we will reduce the deficit, nor have we received an answer on how we will remedy the banking system if we know that there are still 6 billion bad claims in banks. In short, the situation in the country is that the instability in the financial system is reflected mainly in bankruptcy, forced settlement, in an increasing number of unemployed, in increasing job losses and that we do not even know how the government of Alenka Bratušek will design a policy in 2015 and 2016, which are crucial for Slovenia's actual outcome of the crisis. The financial system is the basis for the functioning of the economic system, the social system, the school system, cultural policy; in short, the basis for prosperity in the country; and the stability of the financial system depends on all other policies of the country. The Prime Minister didn't give us that answer. Since the President of the Government has not given us an answer, I propose that a general debate be held in the National Assembly, in which we will receive answers to these key questions, which are important for the self-determination of the people, which are important for all citizens and citizens, and not least for the financial independence of this country, which has been repeatedly stressed by the President of the Government. In particular, independence is due to the fact that the high interest rates at which Slovenia is indebted and under which it is indebted actually affect life, the development of future generations. We, our generation, do not have the moral right to plot the life of future generations by paying our interest; our interest on the last-minute debts, which in the last year amount to 8 billion and for which we do not know when and how we will pay them. I therefore propose, of course, that a public debate be held.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u370	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There were 75 Members and Members present, 26 votes against 48. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under point 3, in accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Franz Bogovic, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of Mags. Alenka Bratušek, to the question of the situation and measures in the health sector by Franz Bogovic. Mr Franz Bogovic has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Before I give Mr Bogovic a word, I ask you for peace in the hall. Here you go, Mr. Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u371	Laughing is half the health, I said yesterday on this issue. I see that Members and Members of Parliament are smiling and thank God that they do. But the health situation is not such that we can laugh about it. The answers I received yesterday were also, above all, answers that dealt with history, not with the future, which I asked the Prime Minister. The health situation, as we all know, is very problematic. The whole range of problems are acute in nature, from the cases last week at the Clinical Centre in the Emergency Department to the situation in the field of personnel, due to the resignation of the minister, who explained with strange explanations why she failed after a bad month. Problems arise at the Clinical Centre in the field of human resources, which is crucial, and there are growing problems with funding for the health sector. The health department itself is now in such a state that it already has more than 100 million holes in it, and such a situation is, in fact, unsustainable. Yesterday we get a report from the anti-corruption commission, which reminds me of the use of the word, the rustling of doctors who are partly public, partly private, so I firmly believe that it is the responsibility of Members, of all of us, to discuss this issue thoroughly in the National Assembly and that we also pay the necessary attention in the field of health. I therefore propose that you support this decision, that we hold an in-depth substantive debate at the next meeting, where health is to go, and that we get all the answers that were released yesterday.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u372	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There were 76 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 47. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under point 4, in accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Robert Hrovat, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Defence Minister Roman Jakič to Robert Hroat's question on how to regulate the status of voluntary firefighters and other rescue workers. Mr Robert Hrovat has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u373	Thank you so much for saying that. My question actually referred to Minister Jakič's promise to amend legislation regarding the status of voluntary firefighters and other rescue workers in the protection and rescue system. As early as November, at the press conference, Minister Jakič promised the representatives of the Association of Fires of Slovenia that there would be a change of legislation in this area. We are talking in particular about amending the legislation on the employment of firefighters and the motivation for employers to employ voluntary firefighters and other rescue workers in the protection and rescue system. In the meantime, there has also been a natural disaster, we are talking about the acorn that has shown that it is these voluntary firefighters, the voluntary rescue workers within the system who have carried the main burden, or those who have done the main work in this catch that has affected most of Slovenia. Now, at the time, we — all of us here in Parliament — were full of mouths as these paramedics, the volunteer firefighters did a lot of work. Now we're at the point where we need to take a step forward. The minister told me in his reply that he agreed that something had to be done. I figured he didn't know exactly how to do it. Here is a wonderful opportunity for us, Members of Parliament and Members to, together with the expert, talk about the fire liaison, talk about all the links of others involved in the system in order to discuss, agree on how we will deal with future legislative changes, in particular in terms of motivation for the employment of voluntary firefighters and other rescue workers, of course. I guess you all remember when the Prime Minister of the Government, I think the next day after this acorn, called the employers to leave the volunteer paramedics to intervene, that the situation is such and such but of course, you know, employers, if they don't have some satisfaction in the sense that they have employed firefighters and rescue workers, it's very difficult. [[…]] And here's a nice opportunity to move from words to action. As I said at the beginning, our mouths were full of them right after the pharynx to sort out this status. Now's the chance to really do it. If you support our proposal, the debate will develop and I am sure that we will be together, without prestige – without prestige! - settle this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u374	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We vote on the decision. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 47. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under point 5, in accordance with the proposal of Mr Janez Ribič, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold discussions at the next meeting on the response of Mr Roman Jakič, Minister for Defence, to the question of Mr Ribič's question on measures in the field of voluntary firefighting. Mr Janez Ribič has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u375	Thank you for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Well, we've been waiting, and the time has come when we can talk about firefighters again, not only when they come to help when problems are, when there are elementary accidents. Therefore, it was my question and my call to discuss this subject here, in the National Assembly, to somehow try to contribute to the best possible law that would help these people. We may be able to help with special income relief, and we may also be able to discuss this; perhaps with additional pension insurance _- maybe, I don't know; with an established special status that would allow normal work for those who do not have other incomes to cover some part of the contributions, perhaps even some year of work. They could also discuss the establishment of a special firefighter fund set up by the State, which would draw over-the-counter assistance for firefighters who have either damaged themselves at work or face any other difficulties due to their work in the context of firefighting, which would also replace those most urgent in the absence of revenues for firefighters who have taken part in any intervention. They could also talk about the value added tax exemptions for all the equipment that firefighters need; they could talk about more concrete reliefs and fewer administrations for employers who employ volunteer firefighters, and thus contribute in some way to the operation of the system themselves, as it doesn't matter whether you have 5 or 10 operational firefighters in the company or not, it's even important in the countryside where smaller businesses are, even if there are 20 employees, 5 of them are going to some action, the production stops. In the Slovenian People's Party we offer a hand in this. We are prepared to participate in the preparation, to support efforts on how important it is to maintain this system of volunteering. We all know that if this system is collapsing, next time, in the next major accident, the country will collapse. If everyone cares only for himself, if there is no more solidarity, mutual assistance, an incredible desire to help their neighbors, then it is the end of it all. It will therefore be interesting who will vote against such a proposal to talk about us helping firefighters, not just firefighters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u376	Thank you, too. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 47. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under point 6, in accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Sonja Ramšak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Defence Minister Roman Jakič to Sonja Ramšak's question on irregularities in the Slovenian Army. Mrs Sonja Ramšak has an explanation for the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u377	Thank you so much for saying that. My question at the previous meeting of the Minister of Defence was based on a statement made by the three representative unions of the Ministry of Defence addressed to both the President of the State and the Members. In this letter, union representatives wrote that Members and Members and Supreme Commander of the Slovenian Armed Forces do nothing to resolve the problems they face in the Slovenian Army. That is why I think it would be right for Members and Members to have a broader debate on what is actually happening in the Slovenian Army. In fact, trade unions point to chronicism, nepotism and discrimination, violations of labour law and also the Defence Act, their system law. We have recently had an urgent meeting on the Defence Committee in which we are familiar with the social pressures of members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, and we have also, in some ways, called for the last time for the situation in the Slovenian Army to be regulated, so there is also an opportunity for Members and Members to support this debate, together with the leadership of the Ministry of Defence, the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, with trade unions and to find common solutions to resolve this issue. We must be aware that security in the world is extremely exposed to events in Crimea and that it is unacceptable for soldiers and soldiers in the Slovenian Army to face these problems. Only a satisfied soldier can successfully carry out all his duties arising from his profession. I therefore appeal once again to all of us to actually hold this broader debate and to support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u378	Thank you, too. Can we make a decision? We vote on the decision. There are 71 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 47. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under point 7, the MEP will be in line with the proposal. Branka Grimsa decided on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Economic Development and Technology Method Draganje to the question of mag. Branca Grims on R & D facilitation. Can we make a decision? The explanation for the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group is mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u379	Good-bye to all of you! Investing in research and development is the basis of the existence and competitiveness of Slovenian economy, Slovenian entrepreneurship. Therefore, these reliefs are extremely important because they have proved to be true in the last two years. You will remember that until 2 years ago, 40 percent of the relief was granted, then under the government of Janez Janša, a law on 100 percent of the benefits of investing in R & D. The Minister, Mr Dragonja, who was here yesterday, also confirmed that then investments in research and development have increased significantly, which is good. However, it is important to know that they are still lower than comparable European countries, in particular those countries where investment in R & D is precisely promoting the opening of new, highly productive jobs, which are then a sustainable source of prosperity for all; and this should also be a permanent first objective in Slovenia! That there are still many reasons for the debate on R & D investment, in fact, it also turned out yesterday when the Prime Minister of the Government said that the VAT increase did not in any way burden the Slovenian economy. This is an epoch discovery, this is for the Nobel Prize for Economics, which I proposed yesterday if it turns out to be true. However, if it turns out that it is not real, it is all the more evidence that successful companies need to be able to rely on their own strengths as effectively as possible. When the Government receives a constitutional non-disclosure tomorrow, because the Real Estate Tax Act will fall at the Constitutional Court, which is already being communicated by the central television – for those who may not have watched – it will be clear, of course, that these improvisations and ignorance are over and that they could also use this debate to clearly express the purpose of keeping the money of successful entrepreneurs in such a way that it remains with them and that it should be enabled by appropriate tax relief and by appropriate tax administration policies, which, in recent times, with certain methods and decisions, do not work precisely in this direction – according to the information I have presented – to enable these entrepreneurs to develop faster and open new jobs. This should be a fundamental objective to complete once and for all this post-socialist, bureaucratic, robinhud syndrome, which we have when taken successfully and given to less successful people. Therefore, the successful cannot invest in R & D and the less successful can store sooner or later the uncompetitive. This country is not going anywhere; therefore, the whole of Europe is progressing at this point, and Slovenia is somewhere above zero or just below it, and it has certainly missed the entire development cycle.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u380	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We vote on the decision. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 46. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under point 8, in accordance with the proposal of Mr Krivec, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Method of Dragonje, to Daniel Krivec's question on the sale of state ownership shares in Letrika d.d. Mr Daniel Krivec has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u381	Thank you for your word. I propose that you support the proposal to hold a debate. The answer was transmitted only by the Minister for the Economy and only the question was addressed to the Minister of Finance. And if we vote on the proposal to hold this debate, we will also hear the answers of the Minister of Finance. This is a pressing problem of corporate deleveraging, transfer to the Bank Claims Management Company and transfers for some companies that have been publicly published are already under way. They also come to a large extent for companies that no one in this House knows about. This transparency is very questionable at the moment. We also discussed this topic at the initiative of New Slovenia on the Committee on the Economy, where there was a very long debate, but at the end of some conclusions and responses by government representatives there were no answers. More! Throughout the whole debate, a number of questions have been raised, in what way and under what criteria these shares are transferred to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, what are the conditions for this debt. It has been found that even a bad bank has no powers in these cases, but these shares are clearly transferred on the basis of a commission, which is made up of the banking sector of people who also granted these bad loans. It was also not answered to the question whether abroad there is the same practice as in Slovenia at present, that in banks the same people who have granted bad loans are also saving these credit maps at the moment. I think that this answer is important for further procedures in these cases, and I believe that the debate in the National Assembly would also provide answers to such important questions. I therefore propose that you support the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u382	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There were 67 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 46. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under point 9 of the proposal, Mr Pojbič will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for Dr Anje Kopač Dark to the question of unemployment. Mr Marijan Pojbič has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u383	Thank you, Mr. President. In the Slovenian Democratic Party or in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, we are aware of the importance of the question of the unemployed in our society, how important the economic situation in our society is, how important the financial and economic and social crisis in our country is. That is why we have proposed that the issue I have raised be addressed more broadly in the National Assembly. I do not think that there is a Member and a Member, nor a ministerial team, nor a President of the Government, who would not be aware of this situation and of this situation, and would object to a debate on such an important issue, which I hope to claim is vital, a vital issue for our society, for the future of this country, for the future of our citizens and citizens. Therefore, I ask and appeal to all Members and Members, all Members of Parliament, regardless of colour, regardless of political conviction, regardless of the coalition and the opposition, to support the debate on this issue. I don't think there's any more important question right now than having 130,000 unemployed! This is an extremely big problem for the Slovenian economy, for the Slovenian country! For such a small economy, for 2 million people, we have in addition to 130 thousand unemployed there among 500, 600 thousand pensioners and so many state and public servants only one, a small number of people who are living through this whole machine. So, what does it mean? This is a vital issue for the future of this country, and I think, and once again, there is no person in the National Assembly who would vote that we should not have a public debate on such a problematic issue. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr President, I am sure that we are all still aware that without the growth of the economy in the real sector on the one hand and savings in the state sector, we do not have a chance to break through the situation in which we are. And regardless of whether we are DeSUS, SDS, Positive Slovenia, Slovenian Democratic Party, People's Party, New Slovenia and so on – we are all aware that we have only one option: to step together and find a solution, how to reduce unemployment and improve the state of the economy in our country. That's why I'm asking [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u384	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 47. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under point 10, Mr Zvonka Černača will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Dejan Židan, to the parliamentary question of Zvonka Černač concerning water supply projects. Mr Zvonko Černač has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u385	We will support the debate on this issue in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We are a good year before the conclusion of the current financial perspective, which began in 2007. A good half is exhausted, barely a good half of the funds, so it is highly likely that all projects will not be carried out as planned, and there is a high risk that some of the money that was difficult to negotiate in 2006 during the first Janša government will remain unspent. It is therefore incomprehensible why the competent, government, ministers are holding back or blocking the implementation of projects which are very important from an infrastructure point of view and also from the point of view of providing clean drinking water and a clean environment. All these projects have obtained all the necessary decisions, building permits, even selected contractors already six months ago, the guarantees are being extended – these selected operators have to extend bank guarantees, which costs several tens of thousands a month for each of these projects. In short, unnecessary costs arise and are delayed by the implementation of these projects rather than by the competent authorities to issue decisions as soon as possible. It is a water supply project in the Ljubljanica river, which is the area of the entire Pivska valley, which is also a reserve potential for the coast, it is a bottom water supply project, the Drava river, water supply in Domžal, Kamnik, Suhi krajina, in the Kočevje area, Ribnice, Sodražice. It is a waste water treatment project in the area of Domžal, Kamnika, waste water treatment in the region of Ljubljana. These are all projects that have already been selected for more than half a year, building permits and standing because they do not get a decision from the managing authority, now after a new service which is in charge of the cabinet of the President of the Government. As soon as possible, these pliers should be unlocked and these projects should be allowed to fail. Because what happens if this doesn't happen? The mayors have these projects prepared, they can't just walk away from them, they say they will be a substitute for the implementation of these projects. The alternative is to look for private partners – concessions. As a result, the environmental agriculture policy of Minister Dejan Židan will result in the privatisation of water in the Republic of Slovenia. This will happen under the policy of this government and under the policy of Minister Dejan Jew. For this reason, we propose that a debate be held on this issue to prevent this and that, in the context of this debate, the Minister clearly and unequivocally state why these decisions have not been issued a few months ago. There is no argument that we are at the crossroads of an old and new perspective and that if the Government decided yesterday that it could use projects from a new perspective for human resources to save the unemployed, even though the programme was not adopted, it could also do so in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u386	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We vote on the decision. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 42. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under point 11 of the proposal, Mr Jerovska will decide on the following proposal for a decision: At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister of Culture, Dr. Uroš Grilc, to the question of Mr Jerovška's question on the accession of the formal status of the German minority in the Resolution on the National Programme for Culture, 2014-2017. Mr Jožef Jerovšek, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, has an explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u387	Thank you very much. Mr President, I must remind you, this predecessor has happened for two ethical groups living in Slovenia, which are not minorities under our constitution – not only for Germany and Serbia. I asked the Minister who was responsible for the fact that this pre-eminent had happened, which is now being set up, what happened to Europe, and after a resolution had been tabled on the recognition of the German minority on the Committee of the Austrian Parliament, in a completely new light. In addition, it was discovered that this was obviously planned, coordinated, perhaps that there were strong lobbyists in the back. I asked the Minister who were lobbyists, supposedly high, influential politicians of Positive Slovenia, who lobbyed for this to be introduced into the Resolution on the National Programme of Culture, so that these two minorities, Germany and Serbia, could enter into this national programme. Of course, it is an unconstitutional treatment that brings with it long - term strong material consequences, if not other. For these two minorities live displaced – not minorities, not ethnic groups according to our constitution – live displaced and think of bilingual inscriptions in Cyrillic and in another language throughout Slovenia. Of course, Mr Minister has been acting carefree, but these are very serious issues that we must discuss in this House, define them, and, of course, prevent the Minister from going along with his lobbyists – perhaps, I do not know what else is back here, very serious things – from continuing this game of prejudicing minorities which, according to our constitution, are ethnic groups. The Minister does not have the right to this predecessor, although these are legitimate questions, that the Minister prejudges this in the Offices of the State documents, but that is, of course, unconstitutional conduct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u388	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We vote on the decision. There are 68 Members and Members present. The vote was 22 to 45. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under item12, in accordance with the proposal of Mr Zvonka Lah, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Secretary-General of the Government of Tanja Sharabon to the question of Mr Zvonka Lah on the implementation of cohesion projects. Mr Zvonko Lah has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u389	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Well, I asked the Secretary-General, too, because there was no other way to draw on these cohesion funds. Indeed, we have discussed this several times on the Committees and it has been felt that it is not the right will for these projects, which have been preparing for many years, to be implemented by the end of this financial perspective for almost ten years. In fact, 540 million are available for these environmental cohesion projects, but some of these projects are in such a state of implementation that they will not be completed by the end of November next year, when the last time it is possible to draw financial resources from the old financial perspective, but none of these municipalities will want to withdraw from these projects. Therefore, there is a great danger that projects will not be completed and that the municipalities will have to repay European funds with interest. On the other hand, we have 200 million so-called overcommitment projects that are ready, selected operators, and there is no money for them. The new financial perspective has already begun and 250 million have been reserved for such projects and if we go into the phase of building those projects that will not be completed and include new projects, we could complete everything. These projects would also be implemented and no recovery would be necessary, there would be no rush to carry out these projects and a lot of construction companies would have to work. This money would be returned to the country through VAT, through contributions, through corporate incomes, but obviously it is not in your will. However, when we asked the European Commission whether it could be phased, they said that it was possible — everything could have been carried out, only political will. Who will answer if this happens because of slempary or the incompetence of both the intermediate body and the governing bodies? It is time for the government to negotiate for this phase, to divide the projects by phases and to realize them. If that's not the case, it's going to be a huge economic damage. The municipalities have reserved funds for their own share in the budget that will fall. We can only find that the Government is not responsible for this and that is why the debate needs to be held.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u390	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 45. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under point 13, in accordance with the proposal of Mr Ribič, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Economic Development and Technology Method Draganje to the question of Mr Ribič's question on the measures to start the economy. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 44. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under point 14 of the proposal, Mr Tanka will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Secretary-General of the Government of Tanja Sharabon to the question of Mr Tanka's delegation regarding the storage of magnetograms. Can we make a decision? Mr Jože Tanko has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. Someone's got a microphone on. Mr. Lah. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u391	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues! The archiving material is important; the storage of archive archives and the handling of archival archives are governed by the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives, and it also regulates the detailed operation of this material by the same title and, in addition, the Regulation on the Operation of Public Administrations with Documentary Materials. The basis for this issue was the decision of the ad hoc commission to elect members of the KPK Senate, which decided, contrary to these acts governing it, to destroy the magnetograms and audio records of the KPK selection process. You know the process, many complications, unpleasant both by appointing the President and then subsequently by resignations and ad hoc commission, in which the representative of the National Assembly and, of course, the Secretary-General of the Government, has decided, contrary to the grounds governing this area, to destroy magnetograms and audio recordings. We believe that this is an act that constitutes a violation of the law and regulations, and this was not proper in our view or a crime. Now obviously there are problems with the material of each type in this mandate; on the one hand we have a problem that the Government has done with the amendment of the law when the archives of the Udba are closed, on the other hand we have a problem with bank records, that is also the archival material of the banks, in the part where these are bad bank archives. In this case, too, the coalition has prevented any disclosure under both the Banking Act and the Public Information Access Act. In this particular case, however, the Commission, which has fully implemented the KPK designation procedure, has erased the traces by destroying this material. This is an inappropriate act, and given that the Secretary-General of the Government has not answered practically in any important part this question, I propose or require that the debate be held in the National Assembly. As I say again, this archival story has a broad context. These are the archives of the closing Court for the archives of banks that do not wish to open and exist and for the destruction of archival or documentary material in the process of selecting the KPK Senate. I suggest you support our request.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u392	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We vote on the decision. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 44. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I inform the members and members of the Committee on Culture that 10 minutes from now, the 10th urgent meeting of the Committee will begin in the Grand Chamber in Tomšič, i.e. at 20.13 a meeting of the Committee on Culture. I hereby adjourn the 23rd meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you. Good night!
