ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 23rd session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Irena Tavčar, Mrs Eva Irgl, Mrs Mateja Pučnik, Mr Andrej Čuš, Mr Branko Smodiš from 15:00 on, Mr Richard Braniselj from 17:00 on. I welcome all those present once again! We're moving on to 15. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to the agricultural law under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the Magi. To Dejan Židan, Minister for Agriculture and the Environment. I'm asking for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u2	Dear Mr President, honourable Members and Members, the rest are present. Today, you have before you a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the Agriculture Act, which aims to prepare appropriate systemic bases for the implementation of the measures of the common agricultural policy and also provides a legal basis for long-term planning for the development of agriculture and food, for effective and comprehensive implementation of measures and for a faster adaptation to competition requirements. In particular, honourable Members and Members, allow me to draw attention to the following points of this Act. As the first law, it establishes the Ombudsman in the food supply chain, the new powers of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia to protect competition and regulate payment deadlines for foodstuffs. Here I would like to say that it is true that different institutions have identified imbalances in the food chain, disproportionate power, which also leads to distortions of market relations, and therefore in the law, in order to improve the food supply chain situation, to establish an institution of the Ombudsman in the food supply chain, to determine the illegal behaviour of stakeholders in the food supply chain and the supervision of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the protection of competition and sanctions. As payment deadlines and general arrangements have also become a problem in this country, that the 60-day payment period or a different period, if agreed by the partners, we establish, through the Agriculture Act, special payment deadlines, which are for quickly corruptable goods for 45 days. A cascading period of up to 45 days and a maximum of 90 days for all other foods shall be reached. This also occurs after a transitional period. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that there has been a lot of intensive coordination between all stakeholders, representatives of farmers, their institutions, the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, the cooperative system, the Chamber of Commerce, and I think it is good that we have come up with a compromise proposal. The law also strengthens the conditions for carrying out complementary activities on farms in such a way as to prevent unfair competition. You are familiar with the case that occurred last year when farmers and farmers were harmed by intermediaries selling goods as farmers, but not theirs, but purchased abroad. The law significantly reduces the possibility of such fraud, and we will also have more pure wine poured in this area. The law also lays the groundwork for the establishment of a new national quality scheme, which, in agreement with stakeholders, has been renamed a chosen quality. This is the scheme that will enable us to communicate more rationally and effectively with the home consumer, to discuss why it is important for the consumer, too, to buy domestic, local food. I believe that this change will also allow us to run for some European funds, which is not possible at the moment. The law also regulates the systemic basis for the issue of sub-laws in the field of food safety and quality and provides some grounds for facilitating the implementation of the measures of the common agricultural policy. Allow in the end, honourable Members and Members, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to consider a proposal for a law at this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u3	Thank you. The draft law was also considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Jakob Presecnik, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Agriculture at its 34th meeting, on 12 March. The Committee took note of the written opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which supported the proposal. In the debate of the committee itself, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service pointed out that the amendment submitted was so extensive that a new law should be drawn up in accordance with the Nomotechnical Guidelines and that individual solutions are not sufficiently clear or have a lack of a specific legal framework for sub-legislative regulation. The Director of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia also participated, which highlighted the problem of registration of food production plants. The President of the Union of Farmers of Slovenia also highlighted the problem of sharpening the conditions for carrying out complementary activities on the farm or prohibiting the carrying out of the same type of activity in different legal forms of an individual. The Union recalls that the proposed solution will make the farmer in an unequal position compared to other professions. The representative of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia stressed that the proposal supports the law. In a short discussion, members of the committee supported the amendment of the law, as the majority of members believe that the proposed solution is going in the right direction, particularly in the area of regulating food supply chain relations. However, the greatest concerns have been raised with regard to the tightening of the conditions for carrying out additional activities on the farm and the conditions for the marketing of agricultural crops. With regard to the establishment of the guardian of relations in the food chain, the opinion was expressed that the introduction of this institute could be understood as a recognition that the Code of Good Business Practices between the agri-food chain stakeholders clearly did not produce the relevant results. The considerations were also expressed in respect of payment deadlines, mainly from the point of view of inefficiencies in the chain from the farmer through the processing industry to the final consumer. With the proposed legal compromise, which is more beneficial to traders than primary producers and processors, it is likely that some members of the Committee will not be able to achieve objectives comparable to other neighbouring countries, such as Italy and Austria, where the payment deadline for fast food is 30 days and for the rest of the food. After the discussion, the Committee identified itself to the amendments tabled and supported the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups, and the amendment of the SLS Group to Article 12 did not define itself, as the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups made it irrelevant to this article. At the proposal of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, the Committee also adopted its amendments. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of the Committee's report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u5	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Robert Hrovat will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not oppose the proposal of the amendment to the Agriculture Act. It is a matter of establishing a systemic basis for implementing the measures of the common agricultural policy, planning the development of agriculture and food, effectively and comprehensively implementing measures and adapting faster to competition requirements. The amendment of the law is necessary in order to adapt the amendments to European legislation with a view to improving the protection of consumers, producers and processors of agricultural crops and foodstuffs. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment has focused on the prevention of unfair competition, the grey economy and the black work. The conditions for carrying out complementary activities on farms and for the marketing of agricultural crops and foodstuffs shall be strengthened. This is also necessary, of course, but in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we expect the minister to become an important economic activity in Slovenia that will provide food for all people, new jobs and thus inhabited rural areas with an important function of biodiversity conservation and tourism development. It is too small for you to write in the Coalition Treaty that the strategic objective of your agricultural policy will be to increase production of quality, safe and price-competitive food. We need to move from words to actions. You've adopted a plan or resolution. We'll provide you with food for tomorrow. Although it is a very attractive and populist address, which misleads the public with the apparent efforts of the ministry or government. If we really want to achieve the goal of raising the level of self-sustainment with certain key agricultural crops, this should still be reflected in the preparation of the agricultural budget. This means shifting budgetary resources to sectors that are key. The percentage of home-made basic food in Slovenia reaches an average of 30 to 65% of needs. Exceptions are only beef, milk, poultry and some apples. The solution to the situation is the ability to look for an indirect stimulus to the rise in food production, through actions of the Rural Development Programme, linking production planning to a well-known buyer and taxation of unprocessed agricultural land. In practice, this represents the need to increase the area for crops – we are talking about cereals, potatoes, legumes, vegetables – at the expense of areas intended for livestock farming. They must move to an area that is not suitable for agriculture. At the time of the adoption of the amendment of the Agricultural Law, it is an opportunity to highlight an area where there are still no movements or where there is still some effort to be made if we do not only want letters on paper. This is a link between rural development programme measures and self-sustainment objectives. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, it is estimated that rural development measures, where the broad platform of activity, should aim to place surplus food produced in this rural area in the self-sustainment chain. And another aspect where something will have to be moved is fair trade or the possibility of placing domestic products in the trading chain. The Joint Liaison Office with its 400 stores could also help here. There is a lack of cooperation between the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment and the Joint Liaison in this project. If you are already unsuccessful in talking to stores, regardless of the wheat and vegetable chain, where there was much talk and very little realisation. So, integration, multi-annual contracts, taking risks across the chain, which will enable farmers to plan production. It is in this area that the greatest manna is, and it is expected to happen in the future. The Rural Development Programme provides Slovenia with as much as €1 billion and €100 million over the next 7 years, and food growers expect more than justifiably to be a major part of this billion to increase food supply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u7	Thank you, too. Mr Mirko Brulc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u8	Your Honor! The proposed amendments and additions to the Agriculture Act will be supported by the Group of Social Democrats. The Agriculture Act lays down the basic systemic basis for implementing the measures of the common agricultural policy and provides a systemic basis for long-term planning for the development of agriculture and food. In particular, we are pleased to establish in the proposed law the Institute of the Ombudsman for Food Supply Relations and to give the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia new powers for the protection of competition. It is most welcome, however, that we regulate payment deadlines for food in a way that provides for a maximum of 45 days of payment without the possibility of a different arrangement, protecting the food producer against a customer who is usually a stronger customer. It is true that this solution is being introduced gradually, but it has to start somewhere. In the spirit of the government action "Turn On Reason, Take Account" and fight against the grey economy, the law strengthens the conditions for carrying out complementary activities on the farm and the conditions for trade in agricultural crops. The law prohibits so-called amphibians. Therefore, the sale via the farm is not allowed if there is a registration of espionage, legal person or complementary activity for the same crops. The law also provides the basis for the establishment of a new national quality scheme. The quality scheme will be open to products demonstrating the conditions of the above-standard criteria relating to the composition of the product, environmentally friendly production, quality of raw materials, animal welfare and the like. In addition to the above, the law provides a systemic basis for the issue of sub-laws in the field of food safety and quality. It is also easier to implement the measures of the common agricultural policy and to fully introduce inspection controls. We support the law because it follows the country's basic guidelines on self-sustainment of food and, above all, healthy food. In the 21st century, we came into a paradoxical situation where poor and unhealthy food is available, which is reflected in the fact that poorer levels of adults are mainly fed, especially children who are abnormally obese as a result. We hope that this law will contribute to greater accessibility of fresh locally produced food at home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u9	Thank you. Mag. Katarina Hočevar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the minister with his team and everyone present! The new Agriculture Act introduces, inter alia, a new supervisory authority, the so-called food ombudsman or the guardian of the food supply chain, which will monitor whether farmers, food undertakings and traders respect the provisions of the new agricultural law or monitor the conduct of these three stakeholders, publish examples of good practices and keep the public informed of their findings. We are aware that the food supply chain has direct consequences for all European citizens, as food represents as much as 16% of the expenditure of European households. We expect this new institute to help improve relations in the food supply chain. This chain often creates major imbalances in negotiating power between the parties. The reduced payment deadlines themselves and the so-called amphibians have already been said by my predecessors, so I would also touch on those changes of the law that are at first not important, but in practice mean both the burden of the state administration and the simplification of the procedures of our citizens. It is the right of the Government to prescribe a mandatory e-deployment of so-called collective deposits. This means that there will be no more physical roles — more than $60,000 — in total. For farmers who have gone to the post office so far to submit physical applications, this postage cost will be saved and paper work will be saved to the agricultural market agency. Thus far, applications in physical form have been sent to the Agency, although farmers have already made electronic applications at the farm advisory services’ exhibitions and this paper form has virtually no added value. Within the same Article, it shall also be governed that the powers conferred on the farmer by the farmer for the submission of the application are no longer required to be sent by mail to the agency and that a specific declaration within the so-called e-application that the application has been issued or fulfilled after the authorisation. In addition, e-mailing applications with a secure e-signature ensures such a high level of security that it is possible to track down anyone who would like to abuse the system. However, so far, in 7 years, the broadcasting or e-subsidies system of these abuses has not been available and the paper form of the authorisation has been completely unnecessary. The application for investment measures will no longer be complementary, but imperfect applications will be rejected immediately. This amendment is proposed because as many as 67% of the applications were usually incomplete and the parties had to be asked for a supplement. In the Civil Gazette, we will support the amendment of the Agriculture Act because the novelty on the one hand brings better operating conditions to food producers because it burdens the agricultural economies with the award of collective subsidies and also allows rationalisation within the agricultural market agency, the acceleration of the implementation of planned investments and, consequently, the faster absorption of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development funds. These reasons are enough for us to give support to this novel in the Civil Gazette. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u11	Thank you, too. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that. Once again a nice greeting to all present! If I start this year and next year for Slovenian agriculture, it will certainly be one of the most crucial in the last 20 years. Unfortunately, it will bring more bad than good promises. At the beginning of this year, a mandatory farm bookkeeping was put in place, with a total income of the members of the farm household from basic agricultural and basic forestry activities in the coming year exceeding EUR 7 000 500. The start of this year has also resulted in a transitional period during which 50 % of the subsidies were included in the tax base of basic agricultural and forestry activities. This is estimated to represent an additional tax burden of around 10 million for farmers. Then there is the real estate tax – we know what happened to it, what fate it suffered – the inadequacy of the implementation of direct payments in the period 2015-2020, the abolition of milk quotas in 2015. Above all, forest owners were hit by a catastrophic stomach a few months ago, which took several forest owners a few years to despair. The content of the proposed law is extensive, which is too extensive to amend the law, or it is a systemic basis for implementing the measures of the common agricultural policy in the coming financial perspective. It establishes solutions for long-term planning for the development of agriculture and food, establishes an Institute for Food Supply Relations, adds new powers to the Public Competition Agency and reduces payment deadlines for food. The proposed law also strengthens the conditions for carrying out complementary activities on the farm and the conditions for trade in agricultural crops. In other words, as mentioned several times before, so-called amphibians are prohibited, i.e. those who have the status of a farmer and a sole entrepreneur at the same time. They will not be allowed to buy fruit or vegetables like espeii on one side and sell it as farmers on the other. We witnessed this, especially in last year's year. However, we find this somewhat unusual, and some agricultural institutions have also pointed out that such a prohibition applies only to farmers. But on the other hand, things have to start to be regulated, and in this case agriculture is obviously first in line because, last but not least, there are university professors who can teach in several colleges, public and private, and are also, for example, mizzards who work in a mizzar company this morning, and in the afternoon through the espionage in their own workshop, that I do not speak at all about doctors employed in the public health system working as private workers. There have also been many talks about this in recent weeks. However, despite these concerns, we will support the proposed amendment of the Agriculture Act in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u13	Thank you, too. Mag. Jana Jenko will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Good bye to all of you! There is hardly any area in our country where we would not encounter a grey economy. And agriculture is no exception. The so-called system of amphibians, when a farmer acts as an independent entrepreneur and has the status of a farmer, encouraged the economy to be gray, as individuals abused the system. Therefore, one of the objectives of the proposed amendment to the Agriculture Act is to prevent unfair competition, the grey economy and the black work. The proposal for a law strengthens the conditions for carrying out complementary activities on the farm and the conditions for trade in agricultural crops. In such services, the law excludes the carrying out of the same type of activity in different legal forms of an individual. Simply put, the novelty prohibits the sale via the farm if there is a registration as a sole entrepreneur, legal person or complementary activity for the same agricultural crops. The next objective of the novel is also to establish a systemic basis for implementing the actions of the common agricultural policy. The law provides a systemic basis for long-term planning for the development of agriculture and food, for effective and comprehensive implementation of measures and for a faster adaptation to competition requirements. The provisions of the law shall also be amended or supplemented in a work where the law is not fully harmonised or does not provide the necessary legal basis for the implementation of the rules of the European Union and in the work governing the movement of agricultural crops and foodstuffs and complementary activities on the farm. At the same time, new provisions are being added to allow regulation of relations throughout the food supply chain. One of the more important innovations is the establishment of an Institute for Food Supply Relations. Unauthorised behaviour of stakeholders in the food supply chain shall be determined. The Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition also receives new powers. Payment deadlines for perishable foods and other foodstuffs are further regulated. Thus, for fast perishable foods it provides for a 45-day payment period without the possibility of a different arrangement between the parties. The law provides for the gradual introduction of payment deadlines for fast-track food with a two-year transitional period. In no case shall the payment period be longer than that agreed on the date of application of the law and is shorter than the payment deadlines laid down by law. For other foods, the law provides for a derogation from the law governing the prevention of late payment in such a way that the agreement on the length of the payment deadline for other foodstuffs, which is longer than 90 days from the receipt of the goods, is null and void. We support the proposed amendments to the law in the DeSUS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u15	Thank you, too. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the Nova Slovenije Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u16	Dear President, Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Self-sustainment of food is of strategic importance to the country, so we Christian Democrats are committed to better farming opportunities and integrated rural development. We have neglected this important task in Slovenia and are becoming increasingly dependent on the purchase of food in other countries. Although various groups at the Ministry of Justice have tried to reverse negative trends with various projects over the past two decades, this has not been fully achieved by anyone. This will make us more vulnerable to problems in the event of bad years, natural disasters, possible wars or epidemics, since in such cases each country will first take care of its population. We support the increase in domestic food production and thus improve self-sustainment in the country. However, the current conditions for farming and farmers are not very favourable. On the contrary, agriculture in Slovenia is neglected and agricultural work is undervalued and also poorly paid. Because of the difficult conditions of cultivation in hilly areas and the abandonment of farming on smaller farms, more Slovenian land is growing with forests. The fertile fields are transformed into walled areas, so that the proportion of agricultural area per capita has fallen to a critical limit and is already below the level sufficient for the food self-sustainment of the Slovenian population. In Novi Slovenija, we are outraged that the current government, with its actions, is only making the position of a Slovenian farmer worse – by introducing new and new bureaucratic barriers, such as carriers and registers for forest owners, with enormously high penalties, a dizzying increase in cadastral income for certain sectors, with flat-rate taxation. It is good that at least the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has defended farmers from the worst disaster that the planned property tax would bring. We can conclude that the current government is in no way aware of the importance of agriculture, especially the high levels of self-sustainment and the high standards of safe food for the country. As such trends continue, farms will remain largely empty, as young people do not have any motivation to take over. Despite all of this, we can highlight some of the positive measures that this vast novelty brings. We support the aim of regulating the relationship between stakeholders in the food supply chain and dealing with illicit practices. However, we believe that the introduction of a new function, the so-called guardian of relations, will not in itself solve problems. More will have to be done in different, less protocol and more operational ways. The right direction is the intention to gradually reduce payment deadlines in the chain. Traders at the expense of producers and processors also benefit from unreasonablely long payment periods. In tightening the conditions for carrying out complementary activities on the farm, Christian Democrats believe that the Ministry must be very careful and considerate of the effects of the law. We claim that the complementary activity is one of the best opportunities for many family farms in Slovenia to be preserved and developed. We also think it is appropriate to make it possible to deal more flexibly with applications for investment grants. It is necessary to upgrade those who are careful and timely, to eliminate or disable speculators. Members of New Slovenia will not object to the news.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u17	Thank you. Mr Branko Ficko will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u18	Nice hello to you all! What was supposed to be the basic objective of the new law, my predecessors have already said. I myself will touch on the regulation of agricultural production and food and the regulation of relations throughout the food supply chain. The law provides for the establishment of a guardian of relations in the food chain, new powers of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia to protect competition and regulate payment deadlines for foodstuffs. The proposed novelty thus lays down the final payment deadline of 45 days in the case of perishable goods and leaves the payment deadline of 90 days for other food products, and gradually, only until 2016. As regards some fundamental solutions to the bill, namely the arrangements for the prevention of late payments and the establishment of the Ombudsman in the food supply chain, we express certain concerns in the Group of Positive Slovenia. With regard to the establishment of the Ombudsman in the food chain, we would like to point out that in 2011 a Code of Good Business Practices was signed between stakeholders in the agri-food chain. The signatories to the Code have aligned themselves with the net price, respect for statutory payment deadlines, non-removal of contracts with unilateral annexes and so on. Of course, the Committee was envisaged for supervision, and we therefore estimate that the introduction of the Ombudsman's Institute is a possibility to understand as a recognition that the Code does not work in line with expectations. Among other things, the Ombudsman does not know competing countries. With regard to payment deadlines, we would like to point out that Slovenian food companies are facing increasing delays in payments; they are even longer than 100 days. The latter, of course, causes major liquidity problems throughout the chain, with the exception of traders, from the farmer as the original producer to the food industry. We estimate that the proposed legal compromise is primarily in favour of the trader. The comparison, for example, with neighbouring countries shows that our farmers and the food industry are losing a competitive fight due to excessive payment deadlines. For example, in Italy already a good year ago, mandatory 30-day payment deadlines for fresh, fast-degradable foods were laid down and 60 days for other foods. It's similar in Austria. We will come to this only in the transitional period until 2016, and this period will be 45 days, and for the rest of the food will not be reduced. More rigorous measures than envisaged would probably be needed. At the same time, non-compliance with deadlines is properly sanctioned in competing countries. Nevertheless, we are aware in the Group of Members that all key stakeholders from the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, the Chamber of Agricultural and Food Companies, the Cooperative Union and so on participated in the preparation of the proposal. As those stakeholders have also made public at the meeting of the competent working body, which discussed the bill, that the proposed solutions are a compromise between them, we will support the proposal of the law in the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia in spite of some of the concerns expressed. However, we are not satisfied with the solutions proposed, or we are not in line with the basic set-up. Primary producers, the food industry loses its fight against comparable competing countries. The problems with illiquidity will increase while the banking system is not understood, and this is not good for the greater self-sustainment and development of the food industry. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u19	Thank you, too. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 9th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS ANOTHER RELEVANT PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE TRAINING LAW UNDER THE MODERN PROCEDURE The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Boštjan Šefić, State Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u20	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreigners, which is before you, focuses mainly on removing administrative barriers, since, for the first time, it simplifies the procedure and removes administrative obstacles in obtaining residence and work permits. The transposition of the European Directive into the national legal order introduces a so-called uniform procedure whereby a third-country national, with one role, in one procedure and one document, will obtain a residence permit and work permit with one authority, i.e. with the administrative unit. Secondly, it significantly reduces the time limits for deciding on the issue of a residence permit, since the administrative unit on the issue of a residence permit must decide within 30 days or within 60 days in specific findings. Right now this deadline is 90 days. Thirdly, it facilitates the acquisition of a residence permit for certain categories of foreigners, third-country nationals who will be able to obtain their first residence permit in the country, which constitutes an exception to the general rule that a foreigner must obtain his first residence permit before entering the country. This applies in particular to researchers, students, foreigners applying for the first Blue Card of the European Union and foreigners of Slovenian descent, provided that they already reside legally in the country. The draft law also transposes two European Union Directives into the national legal order, namely Directive 2011/98/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 on a uniform procedure for examining the application for a uniform permit for third-country nationals to reside and work in the territory of a Member State and on a common set of rights for third-country workers legally residing in a Member State. The so-called principle introduces all in one place for all foreigners who will apply for a single authorisation for reasons of employment or work, as well as for foreigners who will apply for a single licence to perform seasonal work, to perform work as a self-employed person, to provide services on a cross-border basis as a posted worker and as a daily migrant. Secondly, Directive 2011/51/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2011 amending Council Directive 2003/109/EC extending its scope to beneficiaries of international protection. The proposal for a law further aligns the assessment or opinion of the European Commission with Directive 2008/115/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2008 on common standards and procedures in Member States for returning illegally staying third-country nationals, since the European Commission considers that the directive is incomplete or inadequately transposed in individual segments. The bill transposes the concept of family reunification into the Foreigners Act for persons who are granted international protection in the Republic of Slovenia. The bill also provides for a number of measures aimed at preventing abuse in obtaining residence permits, namely a provision to demonstrate compliance with the conditions of sufficient means of subsistence. This condition in the process of obtaining the first residence permit will no longer be demonstrated by a survival contract. Secondly, a one-year legal residence in the Republic of Slovenia is reinstated as a condition for obtaining the right to family reunification. Thirdly, the reason for refusing to grant a residence permit to a family member is also the finding that the marriage is concluded primarily for the purpose of obtaining a residence permit. This reduces the existing standard of proof in order to make it easier to prove that the residence permit is refused if the marriage is concluded solely for the purpose of obtaining a residence permit. Mr President, honourable Members, the draft law has also been very closely coordinated with NGOs and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, and practically all their comments have been taken into account in the preparation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u21	Thank you, too. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Jerk Čehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. Nice greeting to the Secretary of State with a co-worker! Dear Members and Members! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, as the parent working body, considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners submitted to the National Assembly by the Government. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Council of Justice, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for State Regulations, the comments and comments of the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia and the comments and suggestions of Amnesty International Slovenia, Slovenian Philanthropy, the Peace Institute, the Jesuit Association for Refugees of Slovenia and the Legal and Information Centre of NGOs. The legislative and legal service examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects and made more comments. Amendments and amendments to the amendments of the coalition's parliamentary groups were tabled within the deadline. On behalf of the proposer, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior said that the drafting of the bill was extremely difficult due to several coordinations. The basic reason for the draft law was the transposition of the two directives of the European Union into the national legal order. In doing so, the proposed regime simplifies the existing procedure for obtaining residence and work permits and removes administrative barriers for the parties and significantly reduces the time limits for deciding on the issue of a residence permit. The rapporteur also said that most of the comments made by the Legal and Legislative Services had been duly taken into account by the amendments of the coalition groups and that some of the comments had not been followed and that the applicant had submitted additional written explanations at the meeting itself. He also said that they took into account comments from NGOs which generally oppose the transfer of the concept of family reunification from the International Protection Act to the Foreigners Act. With regard to the transfer of the family pooling institute for persons with recognised international protection under the International Protection Act to the Aliens Act, the proposer insists on the proposed amendment. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that several standards were lacking, unclear and inconsistent with the legal system and the Constitution, which she had specifically pointed out in her written opinion. Despite the fact that the applicant followed most of the comments, she pointed out in particular that the proposal for a law in a few places relied on the provisions of the Employment and Work Act and that it should therefore be prepared in parallel, since both laws are interdependent and interrelated. However, such an approach as the applicant has now chosen can constitute a discrepancy with the legal order and lead to the emergence of a legal vacuum. The representative of the National Council of State said that the State Council was in favour of the proposal for a law, but pointed out that some substantive issues and concerns were raised in the debate at the Council of State, which were also raised by representatives of the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia. The representative of the Legal Information Centre expressed satisfaction that the NGO's proposal had already been invited to participate in the drafting of the bill and that many of their comments had been taken into account. He noted, however, the inequality between the foreign institution and the institution of the merger of the refugee family or the person with recognised subsidiary protection, as it is unacceptable that a lower level of rights should be established as regards the merger of the refugee family than for other foreigners. The representatives of the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia said that they had several substantive concerns and questions raised in their written opinion and expressed their disagreement with the proposer that Directives of the European Union should be taken into account. Nevertheless, they highlighted the concerns of the Legislative and Legal Service regarding the non-compliance of the acquis with the unaccepted Employment and Work Act. After a brief discussion, the Members expressed their support and satisfaction for the proposed law that the applicant took into account the opinion of the professional and non-governmental organisations. They also stressed the importance of the common migration policy and the implementation of the European Union directives. In view of the fact that the applicant has provided for a longer period for the enforcement of the law, this is 1. 1. In 2015, they pointed out the possibility of regulating the interdependent and related content of the Aliens Act and the Employment and Work Act during this period. Finally, the Committee adopted amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups and amendments to the Committee and adopted and adopted, on the basis of Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u23	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Majda Potter will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr State Secretary with a co-worker, Members and Members of Parliament! In the field of migration policy, the European Union is very active. This is also demonstrated by the amendment and complementarity of directives in this area and also by the preparation of new ones. However, these Member States must implement into their legal order, and that is also what we are doing with this amendment to the law. But I would like to draw attention to the background of the legislative changes linked to the 2005 year when the European Union's general framework for external migration and asylum policy was established. That is when the Global Approach to Migration and Mobility was launched. This sets out how the European Union carries out political dialogue and operational cooperation with countries not members of the European Union. It is based on clearly defined priorities that reflect the strategic objectives of the European Union and form an integral part of the European Union's general foreign policy, including development cooperation. The global approach aims to promote dialogue and cooperation with non-European Union partner countries in four areas: firstly, better organisation of legal migration and promotion of well-managed mobility; secondly, preventing and combating illegal immigration and eradicating trafficking in human beings; thirdly, efforts to maximize the impact of migration; and the promotion of international protection and strengthening the external dimension of asylum as a fourth target. In February this year, the European Commission adopted a report on progress made towards better management of migration flows and promoting mobility in a safe environment. This report was concluded in 2012 and 2013. That is also why the position of the Social Democrats Group is based on the implementation of these two directives, which is why we will also support the proposal. It is particularly important for us to gain a special weight with this novelty, especially the concept of family reunification for persons who have been granted international protection by the Republic of Slovenia, since this protects the most vulnerable groups of the population – minors. Since it has already been said that a number of comments from the non-governmental sector have been taken into account in the coordination, this is an additional argument to support this Directive. At the time of the directive, however, I would point to something that might be more directing lawmakers to the future. This is a comment by the Legislative and Legal Service on Article 2 of this amendment, which recalls the provision of Article 115, paragraph 4, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This refers to the mandatory elements of the law and requires that the text of the articles should make sense of the use of women and men in those first articles or chapters of the bill setting out the basic subjects of the bill, stating that the reference in men's sex should be further used. An explanation of why this did not happen in Article 2 and, in fact, referred to Article 10 of the basic law is a special warning for the consideration of these provisions. Indeed, the previous amendment did not take these provisions into account, so there would now be a discrepancy between the previous amendments and the current ones, but I stress: this is a provision of the Rules of Procedure. It must be common for all of us to advocate respect for the rules of procedure. First of all, this is the concern of Members of Parliament and Members, but also of the drafters, the law-makers must watch over this and assess what the novelty does and how it will be incorporated into the whole law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u25	Thank you, too. Ms Kristina Valenčič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! With Slovenia's entry into the European Union, we have also made a commitment to respect the EU's acquis and to transpose European directives into the national legal order in a timely manner. This is also the most common reason for any changes to the laws adopted by this State Assembly. And so are today’s changes and additions to the Aliens Act. In the following year, we can expect new ones, as the European Commission proposed new amendments to visa rules a few days ago precisely with a view to reducing and simplifying short stay procedures in the European Union. The proposed measures should promote economic activity and employment. A recent study has shown that, with more flexible and accessible visa rules, the number of visits by foreign citizens in the European Union could increase significantly, bringing 130 billion euros in revenue over 5 years and about 1.3 million new jobs in tourism. The Commission therefore proposes to simplify the application for a short stay visa, after which there is increasing demand. The number of visa applications increased by 68 % between 2009 and 2013. The European Parliament and the Member States are expected to confirm both legislative proposals by the beginning of 2015. Let me go back to today's novel and the solutions it brings. The proposed amendments simplify the procedure and remove administrative barriers to obtaining residence and work permits and introduce a single procedure in which a foreigner, with one role, in one procedure, in one place and one document, will obtain residence and work permits. The time limits for deciding whether to grant a residence permit from the current 90 days to 30 days in reduced administrative procedures or 60 days in specific findings are substantially reduced. It also simplifies the procedure for obtaining a residence permit for certain specific categories of foreigners, such as researchers, students who will be able to obtain their first residence permit in our country; therefore, it is an exception to the general rule that they must obtain permission prior to their first entry into the country. With this amendment, the International Protection Act, whose amendments we adopted in December last year, translates the concept of family reunification for persons granted international protection in our country. How about we stop at numbers and statistics for a while. In 2013, Slovenia granted 22 000 384 residence permits to persons from the European Economic Area and 87 000 943 permits to persons from third countries. So together almost 110 thousand temporary and permanent residence permits. People from the countries of the former Yugoslavia, mostly Bosnia and Herzegovina, the good 46 000, Kosovo 12 000 600, Macedonia 10 000 500, Croatia 10 000 800 and Sri Lanka for the good 9 000. The Republic of Slovenia, like other European Union countries, provides opportunities for the integration of foreigners authorised to reside in the Republic of Slovenia into cultural, economic and social life. Integration policy is based on the principles and values of equality, freedom and mutual cooperation. We can justifiably say that Slovenia has an exemplary arrangement for this area. With today's changes and simplifications, this is further increased and strengthened. You know the project and the slogan "Stop bureaucracy", the trademark of Minister Virant and the National Gazette. Today's changes and additions are part of these activities, so we will support the novel in the Civil Gazette. We want such simplifications even more, in all areas of our work.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Mrs Jasmina Opec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, hello, all of you! The problems of foreigners arriving in the European Union from third countries may not be as high in Slovenia as in some other European countries, such as Italy, Greece, France. To regulate the situation of individuals who, for economic or other reasons, leave their homeland and go to more developed and stable parts of the world in search of a better life, a comprehensive approach must be taken, at the level of the European Union as a whole. The latter is aware of this, since the principle of free movement of persons or labour is one of the fundamental requirements on which it was established. Of course, such freedom requires clear criteria for the Union's handling of the issue of legal and illegal immigration of persons from third countries and other issues relating to the situation of foreigners, third-country nationals. To this end, the European Union has already adopted a series of legal acts, which are mainly covered by our legislation in the Law on International Protection and the Law on Foreigners. The last novel we have before us today has now carried out as many as 13 directives of the European Union. In addition, six other European Union regulations are implemented under the law. However, the proposed amendment to the Foreigners Act is still needed in order to bring the Slovenian acquis into line with the two directives of the European Union, the main purpose of which is to regulate the situation of persons with recognised international protection or to enforce the principle all in one place also for certain other categories of foreigners performing work outside their own country. The Law on Foreigners introduces a so-called uniform residence and work permit that simplifies the procedure and reduces administrative barriers to obtaining a residence permit. The worker or employer will thus be given the opportunity to obtain a uniform authorisation by lodging an application with the administrative unit, without prior application for a work permit. A single licence may be issued to a foreigner who will apply for his extradition for reasons of employment or work, for seasonal work, for self-employed work, for the cross-border provision of services as posted workers and for the day-to-day migrant. A single licence will be granted to all foreigners with a valid passport, a health insurance, sufficient means of subsistence, and its validity will depend on the validity of the contract of employment or for a maximum of one year with the possibility of extension for a further two years. As positive in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we also assess the proposed shortening of the time limits for deciding on the issue of a residence permit, since the administrative unit will have to decide on the issue of a residence permit within 30 and 60 days at the latest, depending on the type of finding procedure. The next positive solution contained in the proposed law relates to the acquisition of a single permit for foreigners already legally residing in the country. For example, an individual already legally resident in Slovenia will not have to leave Slovenia and apply outside Slovenia for a single permit, but he will be able to do so within Slovenian territory whenever the residence permit expires. In addition, procedures for obtaining the first temporary residence permit for higher education teachers and researchers are being facilitated. As a novelty, the proposed law also provides the possibility of obtaining the status of resident for a foreigner with recognised international protection, who lives continuously in Slovenia for 5 years. With regard to the transfer of the area of merger of persons with recognised international protection under the Law on International Protection to the Foreigners Act, which NGOs have pointed out in the adoption of the last amendment to the Law on International Protection, we have no concerns in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Due to respect for the rule of law of the European Union and the fact that the proposed amendment to the Law on Foreigners removes many administrative obstacles and facilitates foreigners to obtain a residence and work permit in Slovenia, we will support the proposed amendment in the Slovenian People's Party Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we would like to express our satisfaction at the outset that the draft law has been aligned with non-governmental organisations, since this is one of the rare novelties governing the residence and work of foreigners in the Republic of Slovenia, which has not received extensive criticism from NGOs. Otherwise, it was a fundamental reason for the draft law to transpose the two directives of the European Union into the Slovenian national legal order. One directive also allows long-term resident status to be granted to persons with recognised international protection, following the specific provisions of the Directive relating to this category of aliens. On the other hand, the so-called principle introduces all in one place for all foreigners who will apply for a single authorisation for reasons of employment or work, as well as for foreigners who will apply for a single licence to perform seasonal work, to perform work as a self-employed person, to provide services on a cross-border basis as a posted worker and as a daily migrant, to arrange for a single work permit and residence permit in one place, namely an administrative unit. In doing so, the proposed arrangement simplifies the existing procedure for obtaining a residence permit and work permit and removes administrative barriers for the parties. The proposal also substantially reduces the time limits for deciding on the issue of a residence permit, as it provides that the administrative unit on the issue of a residence permit must decide within 30 days or 60 days in specific findings rather than in the current 90 days. In addition to that proposal, the aim is to facilitate the authorisation of certain categories of foreigners, third-country nationals who will be able to obtain their first residence permit in the country, which constitutes an exception to the general rule that the alien must obtain his first residence permit before entering the country. Members and Members of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be supported by the proposal for a new Law on Foreigners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Mr. Secretary of State with a co-worker! The entry, residence and employment of third-country nationals in the Member States of the European Union is subject to a rather detailed regulation of European legislation. This area is regulated by various legislative bases, such as directives, conclusions and regulations. In particular, in times of economic and financial crisis, when Member States of the European Union face high levels of unemployment, it is important that the influx of foreigners, third-country nationals is regulated and restricted in a way that ensures work and social security first of all for nationals of the home countries and for citizens of the remaining Member States of the European Union. However, due to the scarcity of certain professions, employment of third-country nationals is necessary and sometimes even necessary to ensure normal functioning in certain companies and often in public services. The Foreigners Act prescribes procedures and conditions for the entry of foreigners into our country, obtaining permits and visas for their residence. The new novelty now proposed is to merge the residence permit and work permit into one single residence and work permit procedure. This solution, which is brought by law, is welcomed by the Christian Democrats of New Slovenia, as it relieves the state authorities of bureaucratic work in two separate procedures. We also welcome the shortening of the deadlines for issuing a single residence permit and the work of foreigners from the previous 90 to 60 days. However, we strongly oppose the solutions that mean expanding the possibility of an influx of foreigners into our country through the institution of family reunification. We understand that the family is made up of parents and children and dots. A third of foreigners come to the European Union through this institute, according to an assessment by the European Union. The proposal for a law in this part constitutes a substantial expansion of the circle of persons who are granted the right of family reunification by law, as required by the Directive by the Member States. The directive requires Member States to grant the right to family reunification to the spouse and to the minor children of a foreigner. The proposal for a new Law on Foreigners recognises this right to a largely wider range of persons; in addition to a spouse, an extramarital partner and a minor child, it also recognises this right to unmarried children, a minor pastor, a parent of a foreigner, a parent of a foreigner, and even to any other relative of a foreigner, if there are particular reasons for family reunification. The Christian Democrats of New Slovenia point out that such an expansion of the circle of persons who have the right to merge will mean an additional influx of foreigners into Slovenia and, as a result, a great deal of pressure on social transfers, children's allowances, scholarships, parental benefits and so on. We are convinced that in a time of such severe and long-lasting economic and social crisis, the wide opening of doors to foreigners is not and will not be sustainable for our public finances. We must not forget that the right to family reunification will be recognised as a large category of foreigners who also belong in the circle of so-called deleted. The bill that we are going to consider and decide on today does not mention the financial consequences that the law will have in the social field or in the field of social transfers. The bill even explicitly states that the law will have no consequences in the social field. At the meeting of the Committee on Home Affairs, public administration and local government, it was explained that these consequences do not belong to the department of the Ministry of Labour, but to the department of the Ministry of Labour. We do not agree with such an explanation, and we believe that this is an explanation for misleading Members and the public. In view of the fact that it is up to a group of persons entitled to family reunification in a proposal for a Aliens Act, the law in question must have specific financial implications or at least their social assessment. Members of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats We will not support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreigners. More specifically, we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Jerko Čehovin will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u34	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, the rest of you are here! The free movement of people is one of the foundations of European integration and the single market of the European Union. The fact that this is an important subject also confirms that it is on Day 1. 1. In 2013, a total of 56,000 foreign citizens lived in Slovenia. And it is the Aliens Act that regulates the entry of foreigners into Slovenia, obtaining visas and residence permits, leaving the country, voluntary return and other procedures relating to this area. The proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreigners Act, which we are considering today, brings in particular four major innovations. Firstly, it simplifies the procedure and removes administrative obstacles to obtaining residence and work permits, as the transposition of the European Directive introduces a so-called single procedure, i.e. one application, one procedure, one document and one body. Secondly, the proposal significantly reduces the time-limits for decision-making on the issue of a residence permit, as after the new administrative unit will have to decide on the issue within 30 days and within 60 days in specific findings, while the deadline is now 90 days. Thirdly, it facilitates the acquisition of a residence permit for third-country nationals who will be able to obtain their first residence permit in the country, an exception to the general rule that the alien must obtain his first residence permit before entering the country. The fourth novelty refers to the concept of family reunification for persons granted international protection in Slovenia. The concept of family reunification is thus transferred from the Law on International Protection to the Foreigners Act, which was announced as early as December when we discussed and adopted the amendment to the Law on International Protection. In particular, it should be pointed out that, in addition to the transfer of the concept of family reunification, the scope of eligible family members with which such a person can be associated is also expanding. In Positive Slovenia, we are extremely pleased that the proposal is aligned with both the professional public and the public concerned. Since this is a very important issue on the one hand and a very difficult topic on the other, it is essential that the law is prepared on the basis of a constructive debate with all interested parties. As already presented at the meeting of the parent working body, most of the comments were also harmonised and taken into account. On the basis of this proposal, it will also be necessary to prepare a new Law on Employment and the Work of Foreigners, prepared by the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, and given that a special Interdepartmental Group has been set up to ensure the coordination and ongoing implementation of the provisions of both laws, we believe that this amendment will also be prepared with equal care. In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Foreigners Act because we believe that it follows the common European migration policy and makes it possible to implement the principle of free movement of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members, honourable Members, representatives of the government! We have before us an amendment to the Foreigners Act, which transposes two European Union directives into the Slovenian legal order. One of the Directives extends the possibility of obtaining long-term resident status to persons with recognised international protection, following the specific provisions of the Directive relating to this category of aliens. In this part of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we draw attention to the issue of the consistency of the Government's work, which we have already pointed out when the amendment of the Law on International Protection was adopted. Remember, at that time, the Law on International Protection was aligned with the proposed amendment to the Foreigners Act, which had not yet been tabled. This was December 2013. Indeed, the amendment of the Law on International Protection then covered the area of the integration of persons with recognised international protection, which raised the issue of legal certainty as a result of such an approach by the current government. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly also pointed out that such standardization undermines the transparency and consistency of the rule of law, which is controversial in terms of legal certainty and the protection of human rights. It would be more appropriate to ensure the simultaneous implementation of the two legal novels, the then amendment of the Law on International Protection and today's novelties of the Foreigners Act. Today we are faced with a similar issue as regards the transposition of the content of the European directive on the employment of foreigners. In this part, today's amendment to the Foreigners Act refers to the Employment and Work Act. The legal and legal service has also warned this time that the current law should be prepared in parallel, since both laws are interdependent and interrelated. Such an approach may, however, constitute a discrepancy with the legal order and lead to the emergence of a legal vacuum. But all of this is due to the supple leadership and the work of the government. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we support solutions that have a positive impact on the resolution of administrative matters concerning the acquisition of residence permits, such as the removal of administrative barriers. However, we will certainly monitor closely the implementation of the Labour Act, which facilitates the acquisition of licences for certain categories of foreigners. This raises the question of the possibility of misuse of licences. These are a pressing problem in the European Union area. So far, we are taking the amendment of the law as a technical step towards adapting legislation to European Union directives. We hope, however, that in the process of adopting the new law, it will not be revealed that there is a ticking bomb in the law, which is never excluded from the current coalition when it comes to the topic of foreigners. If there are no surprises, we will not object to the adoption of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u37	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 9th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, this is a third-party proposal for a law on old protection and family benefits under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Anji Kopač Mrak, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! I am pleased that today, in your third reading, there is a new law on parental protection and family benefits that preserves and builds on good parental protection policies and family benefits in our country. The main reason for the amendment of the law is the transposition of the European acquis into Slovenian legislation and in line with the European Directive on the reduction of inequalities between women and men in the field of the coordination of professional and family life, as regards parental protection. Since the law had to be amended, we also wanted to revise some of the other content for which the need for improvement had emerged over the years of the implementation of the law. The law thus in some ways equates our terminology of vacations with that of internationalism. This is the new maternity leave. It's the same length, it's 105 days. The leave for the care and protection of the child is now renamed parental leave and remains for 260 days. However, it is determined in accordance with the Directive that this is an individual and, in principle, a non-transferable right of parents. Each parent has the right to parental leave for 130 days, with the mother being able to pass 100 days and 30 days intolerable. Father can pass on all 130 days of parental leave to his mother. So that we were able to realize the equalization of fathers and have access to up to 30 days of non-transferable and paid leave, we changed the father's vacation. So we extend the father's leave according to the bill and reshape it. It is now considered that there are 15 days of paid paternity leave and the remaining 75 days are unpaid leave. In order to implement this Directive of the European Union, we will gradually change these 75 days of unpaid leave after the country achieves 2.5% GDP growth in three years by having 30 days of paid paternity leave. This de facto prolongs the duration of parental protection to 12 months and a half. An important novelty in marriage is also a better regulation of rights for social parents. This is about two important content. Adoption leave is governed by the new law in the same way as parental leave for biological parents. However, the rights for social parents who actually care and protect children are better regulated. On the other hand, it was also about the implementation of the European Social Charter. You have already adopted in the Labour Relations Act the right to absence from work for nursing mothers up to the age of 18. In this law, we only define and specify the nature of these rights, namely, by 9 months, a mother who is breast-feeding has the right to a remuneration of one-eighth of the minimum wage. From 9 to 18 months, the right is regulated by the payment of social security contributions from the proportional part of the minimum wage. We extend the right to work with shorter working hours in the event of the protection of two children. Instead of up to the age of 6, we are now extending this to the end of the first class, with one year of this right becoming the non-transferable right of each parent to achieve a greater division of work in the care of the child within the family. Unifying the content of rights and deadlines is also an important improvement of this law. The law provides for rights to family benefits up to the age of 18 years, except for the right to an allowance for the care of the child and an allowance for a large family. The rights attached to the age of a child of 6 or 8 or 10 years, however, are uniformized and placed at the end of the first class. The administrative burden for employers is also lower, which is important, and it is also about simplifying the work of social work centres. I'm asking you to support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text shall be given by the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code, on behalf of which it will present the position of Mr Branko Kurnjek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Madam Minister with co-worker, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Civil Gazette, we voted in the stages of both the first and second readings to adopt the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits. We are also forecasting the same support in the third reading. Let me only quickly restore part of the position of the Civil Code in the first reading, so that changes in the area of parental protection and family benefits are necessary in order to bring the European acquis into Slovenian law and in accordance with the European Directive on the reduction of inequalities between women and men in the field of the coordination of professional and family life. The need for changes has also been demonstrated through the implementation of the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits in practice. I will only list some important improvements brought by the proposal of the law: the extension of the right to work with shorter working hours for one of the parents who cares and protects at least two children; the increase in the benefit of children not being cared for and protected by parents; the increase in the child allowance for children living in single-parent families; the provision of parental leave, as we recall, was sparked by a heated debate in public; the reduction of administrative burdens for employers and the simplification of work at social work centres. If you remember, in the second reading, an amendment was also adopted among others, which specifically defined the right to parental leave in the case of parents already raising at least two children by the end of the first grade of primary school, and there was much debate as to how to accurately write a dictatorship in the law itself. The bill brings about a reduction of gender inequalities in the field of family and work life coordination, while at the same time simplifying procedures and reducing administrative barriers. That is why we will support him in the Civil Gazette, as we have already said, even in the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u42	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! We have before us the proposal for a law on parental protection and family benefits and in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we believe that some of the proposals in the law are good, but unfortunately it also brings some unduly unjustifiable reductions in rights, especially in families with multiple children. While the proposer listened to some comments or reactions from the public when preparing the proposal, which is certainly commendable, there are still some unresolved and poor solutions that do not return to the families of the funds they have been deprived of by new social legislation or even worsened and unjustifiably reduced certain rights. It is certainly necessary to implement the two European directives and to reduce inequalities between women and men in the coordination of work and family life, while it is unnecessary that some of the already well-established and good solutions contained in the existing law deteriorate and reduce certain rights for families. Improvements can include an attempt to simplify procedures at social work centres. I always welcome this because we impose new responsibilities on social work centres and thus prevent them from doing the work that they are doing, especially professional work with individuals and families. In our previous views, we have also welcomed the possibility of deciding how to use parental leave. There are still quite a few remaining dilemmas at second reading, both by civil associations and by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. That is why we will decide in the parliamentary group how we will vote on the law, after the debate in the National Assembly and the responses of the Minister or the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u44	Well, hello, all of you! In the DeSUS Group, we supported the proposal for a new law on parental protection and family benefits already in the first and second readings. We will also be happy to support the proposed legal solutions when we vote in the third reading of the law. The concrete solutions offered by the new law have already been a lot of talk in previous discussions, so I will not be stopping them too long and in detail. The key changes are as follows. We implement the European Union Directive on parental leave in the context of reducing inequalities between men and women in the field of job and family coordination. In doing so, we should note the delay of the Republic of Slovenia, which gave us renewed warning by Brussels in February. In such a way as we have written down the requirement of the directive for at least one month of parental leave, families or beneficiaries of maternity leave, care and child protection will receive an additional half-month. 365 days of paid absence from this title is gradually extended to 380 days of paid absence from work. The next key point is in a much better and fairer arrangement for social parents, foster parents, foster parents and other people who actually care for the child, as they will be able to benefit from paternity and parental leave, to impose shorter working hours and so on. With a greater amount of child support for a single - parent family, we improve the material situation of these families. The right to breast-feeding governed by the Labour Relations Act also takes on real meaning by this law. Reimbursement for breast-feeding shall be introduced one hour a day to one year and a half of the child's age. In addition to all these rights, the proposal also reduces the administrative burden on employers and rationalises the work of social work centres. However, I would like to point out the constitutional provision, which I have already mentioned in the position of our parliamentary group on the first reading of the law, and is one of the fundamental foundations for the enforcement of legal solutions in the area of family policy in our country. The Constitution therefore states: "The state protects the family, motherhood, paternity, children and youth and creates the necessary conditions for this." This constitutional provision is duly implemented in the proposed new legislation on parental protection and family benefits, as assessed by the DeSUS Group. We know, however, that this law is only a fraction of the family policy that is understood and regarded in the Republic of Slovenia as a complex whole of social, economic, legal, educational, health and other measures taken by the State to improve the quality of life of families and individual family members. However, a set of measures in all these segments should allow for the coordination of family life and professional obligations. Slovenia is said to have a well-ordered family policy. In the DeSUS Group, we agree with this statement, at least as far as positive legislation is concerned. However, how legislation is implemented in practice is another issue. Unfortunately, there are too many cases where it is impossible for working parents to exercise the right to reconcile family life with professional life. Of course, we also have bright exceptions. Since 2007, the Family-friendly enterprise has been carrying out a project for the award of a certificate and to date, a family-friendly company has obtained about 160 Slovenian companies and organisations. These companies, or their leaders, are well aware of their social responsibilities as employers to their employees and respond adequately through their work processes and business policies to the needs of employees so that they can successfully align their private family life with their professional life. In the DeSUS Group, we are convinced that such knowledge of responsible management of human resources is reflected in positive results. Since we are advocates in DeSUS of respect for the fundamental values of the family as the basic and primary cells of society and because we are aware of the poor indicators of demographic imagery, it seems very important that efforts are maximised as much as possible by both the government and the society as possible to create optimal conditions for a family-friendly society. As has already been said, we are pleased to support the proposed solutions in the DeSUS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The position of the Nova Slovenija Group will be presented by Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u46	Dear President, Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on parental protection and family benefits after unnecessary public harassment has been tabled since the beginning of the public debate. Of course, we want family policy to improve in Slovenia, to support the family and not to upset people. The proposal that we now have before us after the general debate in the National Assembly and the consideration on the Home Committee is, in the opinion of Nova Slovenije, slightly better than the original one. It no longer contains the most controversial changes in parental leave arrangements, but it improves this regime in accordance with the European Directive. It is true that with a considerable time delay, however. Regrettably, the bill also contains a number of amendments that make for the family a significant deterioration compared to the regulation in force. These proposals are such that some affect all families, larger ones, and some particularly larger families, which can be viewed as unwise and therefore unacceptable in a country that has one of the worst demographic pictures and forecasts in Europe. We are disappointed that the coalition at the committee meeting has not been able to listen more to the proposals of New Slovenia, which contained a number of civil society arguments. We cannot agree to lower the child's age for the right to extend parental leave from 8 years to the end of the first grade of primary school. Even if this is just one year of difference, this year's particular mother and entire family means a lot. It seems most worrying to us that a shorter right to pay social security contributions to one of the parents for leaving the labour market for the sake of care and protection of four or more children from the current age of 10 years of the youngest child at the moment of entering the youngest child's primary school, i.e. on average for only 4 years. Almost in mockery of all parents who benefit from this option, the ministry stresses that this period is shorter for their own good. We Christian Democrats agree that the Ministry must take some measures to facilitate the return of these parents to the labour market after the end of the period. That's a real problem. However, we cannot accept the Ministry's first attempt to shorten the period and the measures are just beginning to develop. Even in the implementation of the child supplement for the month in which the child was born, we had to make a great deal of efforts by the opposition members to keep the regime at least about the same. Members of New Slovenia are surprised by the government's decision, especially the Ministry of Labour, to save money on family policy measures, while taxpayers will be swept into a bank hole by the kind of five billion euros. You think that's ethical? With the President of the Government threatening again with worse and less just measures. You would undoubtedly have the most harm to your family. Christian Democrats, however, promise the Slovenian public that we will not be silent when trying to make these government forecasts come true. We will continue to defend the value of the family, which, as Pope Francis recently stated, is the heritage of mankind. Members of New Slovenia will not support the proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Maja Dimitrovski.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Allow me to re-present on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia my position on the Proposal for a Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits. Already in the first reading of the bill, where we have touched on broader content, we have highlighted the fundamental reasons for its confirmation. It is also true that, at the very hearing of the Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons Committee, we have reopened a broader debate, as it is a law that will replace more than a decade old law. We also listened to certain concerns or warnings raised by the opposition, so that we finally came to the content that I believe will not be opposed to today's debate. The fact is that the decision for the family is conditional on objective and subjective conditions. Let us recognize that objective conditions are becoming increasingly important today, since they include economic conditions. These depend on the employment of the younger generation as it provides them with financial security and thus basic conditions for the stay and protection of children. At first reading, I stressed the importance of the coordination of the career part of life, on which the decision to create a family depends. Therefore, the rights we regulate under this law are one of the more important. This is part of the family policy measures, which are also implemented in Slovenia in the field of other departments, since they link the content of individual parts of the family policy based on the social role of the country and the fact that it must not overlook the fundamental social cell. The extensive debate on the drafting of the law took several months, coordinated with a number of social partners and other stakeholders, although this is a consequence of the implementation of several directives of the European Union. Here again, during the public debate, the issue of paternity leave was most highlighted, which, with its irremovable 30 days, would affect the mother's right to care for her child for one year at a time. As a result of this and a slightly longer admission process in the National Assembly, Slovenia received a second reminder this year. It is true, however, that the solutions to the Directives at the European level have been fully coordinated with the social partners. I must say that, after this heated debate, we are pleased that the competent ministry has managed to find solutions that all doubts about the appropriateness of involving the father in education and the care of the child are being resolved. Let me repeat the proposed solution. The bill fully provides for a new system of leave arrangements at birth: maternity leave, prenatal leave, remains 105 days, of which 15 days are compulsory, and parental leave, which is an individual and, in principle, non-transferable right of parents. Thus, each parent has the right to parental leave for 130 days, with a mother able to pass 100 days of parental leave on to her father, and 30 days is intolerable. My father can take 130 days of parental leave to his mother. In the parliamentary group, we are convinced that such a solution has satisfied us with the European provisions on the non-transferable 30 days for mother, and we provide this in the form of a father's leave. The bill provides for 15 days of paternity leave at the birth of a baby, together with the mother as arranged at this time, and an additional 15 days of paid paternity leave after the parental leave has expired after one year. This means that the duration of leave at birth is extended from 12 months to 12 months and a half, since the purpose of the paternal leave is the presence of a father associated with the child in the care and protection of the child. In the Parliamentary Group, Positive Slovenia once again underlines the importance of provisions that better regulate rights for social parents as they follow social development and different forms of family. Again, it is the content following the European Union Directive. This requires a uniform regulation of parental rights for adoptive parents or persons who actually care for the child to be cared for, cared for and protected. The provisions of the law govern the following rights. Parental leave for adoptive parents determined in the same way as parental leave for biological parents. This compares rights at the time of the birth and adoption of the child in the way in which the adoptive parents or persons entrusted with the child’s care and education for the purpose of adoption have the right to parental leave. A parental leave may also benefit another person who actually nurtures and protects the child in accordance with the rules governing family relations. It is the foster parents, foster parents, caregivers, mothers’ spouse or extramarital partner and other persons who actually devote their time to the care of the child. The bill also extends the range of beneficiaries to shorter working hours and payments of contributions in the case of four or more children. This is about increasing the benefits of those children who are not cared for by their parents. Persons who actually care for a child may be granted the right to a shorter working time and the payment of contributions in the case of four or more children. A range of beneficiaries are also expanding at the time of the birth of the child. This right may also be exercised by another person and the adoptive parent, unless this right has already been exercised by one of the parents of the child. Another person also belongs to a large family allowance in cases where three or more children from the same family live without parents. Social development and various family situations also require an extension of the range of beneficiaries to partial payment for lost income for the actual care and protection of a child with severe mental impairment or a severely impaired child. Its purpose is to enable parents or other persons to leave the labour market, for which they may receive a partial payment for lost income and appropriate inclusion in social security. The basic objective of the bill is undoubtedly to maximize the pursuit of children's benefits. It promotes a more balanced burden-sharing between parents in the care of the child and home, facilitates coordination between professional and family life, ensures universal family benefits and freedom of choice in the exercise of parental protection rights. In addition to this, we maximize justice and social equality, or ensure as stable a family environment as possible. Let me conclude that this is a law that, according to our assessment, represents a number of positive effects, optimal solutions and follows the development of our society and the newly emerging social relations. This is a modern law, which, I hope, will provide a sufficient basis in the near future for a more numerous decision-making of young people to create a family. In Positive Slovenia we will definitely support the content of the law on parental protection and family benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Stefan Tessel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u50	All hail, distinguished Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, Member of Parliament and Members! The Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits was adopted in 2001 and then supplemented and amended in 2003 and 2006. Changes in social and demographic matters have undoubtedly led to the need for a renewed law. The requirements of the European directives must also be respected. Let me mention some changes. The maternity leave will replace the maternity leave and remains 105 days, of which 15 days are mandatory. Parental leave was formerly a leave of absence for the care and protection of the child. Each parent will have the right to parental leave for 130 days, allowing the mother to pass 100 days of parental leave on to her father, and 30 days is intolerable. Dad can take 130 days of parental leave to his mother. In this way, we can satisfy the conditions required by the European Directive for a mother and, for a father, we can satisfy the conditions of the father's 30-day leave, which is also non-transferable. Both parents may make a concerted transfer of their parental leave to their partners. Here specific advantages can be realized in occupations or jobs, when a mother or father has a better job, not to say better pay, build a career, provide a smooth work process in the company and so on. At times, though, a father is a more capable caregiver or a more loving parent and has the opportunity to spend parental leave on him. The bill provides for 15 days of paternity leave as before at the birth of a child, together with a mother, and an additional 15 days of paid paternity leave following the parental leave, so that the total leave is extended to 12 months and a half. In addition, the law proposes to reduce the administrative burden on employers by exempting employers from certain requirements, such as the fulfilment of the basis for the benefit of allowances and the notification of the transfer of leave. The work of social work centres is simplified as the law provides for solutions that are simpler and cheaper in some places. The law provides for the right to family benefits for children under the age of 18 years, except for the right to an allowance for the care of the child and an allowance for a large family. Rights that have been linked to the age of a child for 8 years, however, the proposal for a law should be uniform until the first grade of primary school is completed. It should be borne in mind that the long-term trends in Slovenia's nativity are negative and that special attention should be paid to rights in the area of parental protection and family benefits, not so much in terms of increasing financial resources as in terms of the effectiveness of family benefits, in order to enable families to decide on family policy as independently of their social or economic situation, although this will never be possible in its entirety. I must mention the lack of jobs or the problem of youth employment. The unemployed do not hope to have a family or to have a child. Thus, the mother’s first birth does not occur until 30 or later. It is also a very important programme of housing policy for young people, which is currently insufficiently addressing the housing problems of young families or couples who want to have children. Parental protection insurers are all persons who are necessarily involved in pension and disability insurance. The right to compensation at the time of maternity leave and the right to payment of social security contributions at the time of maternity leave is a novelty. The regulation in this law was governed by a provision of the Labour Relations Act, which provides for the right to rest for breast-feeding. The right to compensation at the time of maternity leave was proposed and adopted already during the previous government. The law no longer regulates adoption leave because adopters have the right to parental leave. The mother has the right to maternity leave for a period of 105 days, which does not change with the proposal of the law. The duration is also consistent with the 1992 Council Directive in force on the introduction of measures to promote improvements in the safety and health of pregnant workers and workers who have recently given birth or breast-feeding, which provides for a minimum period of maternity leave at least 14 weeks prior to and after childbirth. Father’s leave is the right of the father to be present during the earliest period of the child’s care and protection. The use of paternity leave allows the father to become more active in the care of the child and thus to play a more active role in the care of the child. The father shall have the right to a father's leave for a period of 30 days for which he is entitled to his father's compensation. Parents will conclude an agreement on the use and transfer of leave, which will be submitted to the Centre for Social Work and will inform employers. Parental leave must be used immediately after the end of maternity leave, ensuring continuous care and protection of the child, as there is no interruption between the use of maternity leave and parental leave. The law also provides reasons why one parent or both parents do not have the right to parental leave. In view of the arrangements so far, there are several reasons. When a child is entrusted with the care and upbringing of another person or is placed in a foster family or institution, parents are not entitled to parental leave because they do not actually care for and protect children. In such cases, the other person entrusted with the child’s upbringing and care, or the foster child’s placement, will use parental leave to care for and protect the child. One parent does not have the right to parental leave in cases where the child is entrusted with the protection and upbringing of another parent or lives only with another parent who protects and cares for the child if he has left the child if the parent is deprived of his or her parental right, if he has been banned from contact with the child in accordance with the rules governing the family relationship, provided that he has been given a measure prohibiting the approximation in accordance with the rules governing the duties and powers of the police and the prevention of domestic violence. A new way of using a transferred parental leave. It is no longer possible to use this leave after days, but only in a narrow sequence, and it is not necessary to make use of all transferred leave at once. In view of the simplification of the procedures on the part of the Centre for Social Work in the payment of compensation and from the point of view of the organisation of the work process on the part of employers, the proposed solution is more appropriate than before. Parents must inform the Centre of their unused leave no later than 15 days after the performance so that the beneficiary can pay the compensation in due time. This is a novelty, as it was previously an obligation of the employer. On the basis of the newly established basis for calculating the remuneration at the time of the transfer of leave, the employer of the centre is no longer obliged to report the days of the use of the leave and the data for the calculation of the basis, which is one of the removals of administrative barriers on the part of employers. The record of the use of the holiday is maintained by the centre. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we find that certain solutions to the new Parental Protection Act and family benefits are appropriate and at the same time sufficient for European directives. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we do not oppose the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Madam Secretary of State with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues, very nice greeting! The bill before us today passed through all three stages of the legislative process in addition to the heated public debate. He has yet to be formally confirmed at today's session. I'm glad after 12 years, we blew up the marriage solutions. With the new ones it brings, we continue to provide a visible place for family policy in the European space. The law-making process took into account the comments made by various ministries, associations, political parties, individuals and the general public. The law was widely supported on the working body. We have also supported the law throughout our parliamentary group. The changes are not radical, but they are necessary and necessary. It is the implementation of the European acquis. Among them, we particularly welcome the regulation of rights for social parents, which for us Social Democrats is an essential novelty that we welcome in this law. The law introduces parental leave for adoptive parents to the same extent as for parental leave for biological parents. The range of beneficiaries for shorter working hours and payments of contributions in the case of four or more children and the allowance for a large family shall be extended. In the future, social parents, i.e. those who actually care for the child, may also be entitled to help with the birth of the child. We still regret that there is no fully implemented change in father's leave. There is still work to be done in the area of gender division. Sooner or later, we will have to look at these things from a different perspective, adapt to European trends and properly write down the legal provisions. I still stand on the point that legislation also creates social reality. Among other solutions brought by law are, of course, new, more precise names. Maternal leave is for mothers only. Parental leave and child protection are renamed parental leave, which is actually a right that parents can share by agreement. Finally, the law also provides for major simplifications, particularly in the procedures of the social work centres and without neglect for employers. As in all previous stages, social democrats will now express their unanimous support for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u53	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the draft law as a whole. The word has magic. Katarina Hotchevar. For her please prepare Mr Michael Prevc, Mrs Ludmila Novak, mag. Andrej Vizjak, Mr. Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! The Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits brings a number of positive changes. We could say that by taking small steps towards better family policies or by taking small steps to improve the benefit of children. Above all, this law is important to me because it protects our most vulnerable groups, and it is in my opinion that those children who are not fortunate enough to stay, grow up, have carefree childhood within their biological families. This law equates the right of biological parents to so-called social parents. Slovenian foster parents and foster parents are the ones who are really doing a lot of work, and it is up to them that this segment of so-called foster parents is prepared as normally for adult work. Although this law gives them additional rights that they have not had so far, it would, for example, remind them that foster parents carry out their task 24 hours a day, but, for example, they are not entitled to an annual regression or a vacation regression. This is the main novelty that I warmly welcome in this marriage. A shorter working time for the second child to attend the first class is what will certainly facilitate the coordination of work and family life, since we know that with regard to the afternoon care of the child, it is possible to make it easier. Many kindergartens have longer working hours than, say, extended child care in many primary schools, especially branch school. Even though children in single - parent families have better conditions than our locals, they are deprived of a variety of things, and increasing the child’s allowance for single - parent families is certainly what the state must take care of or give greater weight to. I'd say this marriage is a step towards a child, not a piece of paper. I mean, in particular, that administration is being burdened, that social work centres will receive data from official duties or official records to compensate for parental benefits or so-called maternity leave, and this has now been a lot of work for employers who are going to be worse. I understand that many may be disappointed that the right that has now been applied to large families with four children has been reduced by 10 years of age by the fourth child, but I would like to remind you of one other issue that we discussed in the first consideration of this law, and today we can happily say that it has been resolved, and these are blames for large families. During the period from the first examination of the law to today, the Minister of Infrastructure has listened to the initiatives of associations representing the interests of large families, and today large families, such as families with four children, can receive a refund of half the value of vignettes for car class 2B. And somehow, the minister says that the response of large families was bad enough, so it may be right that when this law is passed, when a large family may not be satisfied, we publicly state that on the Ministry's website, you have a form to fill out, attach an account to which you bought the wine, send it to the Red Cross, and the Red Cross together with the Ministry in 10 days will give half the value of the wine to this large family that asked for it. So I think that the government has also listened to and made clear by this purchase that it does not forget large families. All other solutions in the law are, of course, acceptable both to me and to the National Gazette, and I will also support the law, like all Members of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor. She's got the mags ready for her. Andrej Vizjak, then Mr. Branko Smodish, mag. Ivan Vogrin and Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. How nice to meet you! I'm sure it's good for the baby if he can spend as much time with his parents as possible. In modern times, when many align family life with their professions, this is becoming increasingly difficult. In Nova Slovenija, we regret that our proposal has not been adopted to withdraw this provision to pay contributions to parents who have four or more children by the age of 10 years of the youngest child. We think that this is the best investment in family policy if parents can take care of their children for longer. It is certainly also a wealth that there are families that have four or more children who are willing to accept and care for so many lives. In doing so, I stress that large families are not necessarily socially weak families, as we often attribute to them. Therefore, she might comment only on the previous implementation of Katarina Hočevar in relation to the grapevine. This vineyard has also been reduced on the initiative of New Slovenia, among others, but I do not think it is a good solution to regulate it through the Red Cross, because there we regulate things when it comes to socially weak families or social problems. I think this should be resolved slightly differently. It is precisely because we are reducing this right of parents to pay contributions up to the age of 10 at the age of 7 and, on the other hand, there are so many unemployed people who could, among other things, hold these jobs which parents would otherwise not support in New Slovenia, although there are some good solutions and although Slovenia still has a relatively good family policy. In view of the poor demographic picture of Slovenia, however, we think that we should pay much more attention to this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u57	Thank you very much. It's mag. Andrej Vizjak. I see he's not in the hall right now. Next up is Mr. Branko Smodish.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. All present, good afternoon! Not to repeat myself, because much has been said about the law, I would just add that I would like to thank our minister and her professional services for preparing this law for the welfare of the family, and I hope that it will go to the next step for good. Because I'm just a supporter of the family and the kids. We really need to protect them. In the end, I would just add; it was a little distasteful that the word regarding banks, bank holes was used again, and I hope that such a matter will be no more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin. I see he's not in the hall right now. His turn is Mrs. Iva Dimic. Before that, let me just say that the mags are ready for her. Majda Potrate, Mrs Romana Tomc, Mr Franz Pukšič and Mr Marijan Pojbič. Here you go, Mrs. Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State with co-workers! Family policy in Slovenia is now well-ordered. I think that, as a member of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, I am particularly careful that the rights of families are not taken up in this government. Given that there has been no understanding, and I repeat once again, as has been the case with several times that I have been disappointed and I am still concerned with Article 52, which reduces the right to pay social security contributions to one of the parents for leaving the labour market. We know that under the new legislation, with an additional 10 years for parents who have four or more children at home, this time will be reduced to the final first grade of primary school. In all this state, with this demographic that we have in Slovenia, we should all be pleased together that there are families in this Slovenian space, which somehow family as a cell means more to them than careers, as it means to them a comfortable family life, to decide on the birth of more children. From this point of view, I think the concerns of the current government should also be, in the long term, what follows us. So I can say that the rights of large families are being severely violated. The financial situation, as well as the large families, is deteriorating, and I will be touching here the problem that I have already raised to the Minister of Education, which is the payment or non-payment of school meals. I think that with such measures, where parents stay at home, they have some sense of social security, the country contributes to them minimally. I must stress here that these families currently have thousands of 500 beneficiaries in Slovenia who benefit from what they represent at the annual level of EUR 200 000. With all the billions, 5 and more that we have invested in banks, family policy does not mean enough for us to have an understanding here. And it is these families that I think the biggest problem is paying for or not paying for a school meal or lunch. We know what was going on. I, too, have invited Mr Pikal, Minister of Education, what needs to be done here, and I am also here once again calling for systemic solutions to be sought here. It's not that parents don't want to pay, but they're in extreme social distress. Maybe they lost their job. There is also a need to coordinate here. I know it's been fixed to review the family's income for three months, but certain parents, certain families, are in extreme social distress. Here I would like to mention that they are also in extreme social distress because of the Law on the Exercise of Rights from Public Resources. Just these days, I received two letters that still remind me that there is more at the Ministry than I have received information, 9,000 pending cases concerning the award of child allowances, regarding the granting of scholarships. These things have been going on for two years, and these families have also been in severe social distress. Perhaps these families were counting on income to just come up with a child’s allowance so that they could pay for a school meal or lunch, and they couldn’t. So we need to take into account the really pressing situation in Slovenia in the field of children, families. Perhaps she would touch herself here on one side of the Foreigners Act, which largely opens the door to immigration of family members and regulates all social rights for them. On the other hand, we take large families in Slovenia. I'd like to add some more news. After the e-mail, all the Members received the Boturity project – I am sure you are monitoring things – one of the parents. Mom was alone with four kids. Children live in severe social distress, four of them. Maybe it's those families that need a little more attention. Higher child support for single - parent families — it is commendable to be saved, but on the other hand, we may not understand social distress with four children to such a large extent. In short, I don't know if you've made the right decision in the ministry to shorten this time when one of the parents – I think there's a father and mother's domain here to agree on who's going to use this time – to shorten it for these years, by not having a program to encourage this mother or father to return to the labour market, but just cut off what was possible in some way in these difficult situations with such unemployment another life-saving plant, to at least have paid contributions, and now it will be placed on the labour market. We know about the labour market, we know what unemployment is like. Once again, I think it's more than a warning and I urge you to have understanding with these families, to allow it back, to listen, and to really try to do it together. But I agree, family policy is really a broader concept. It must include other matters, such as social policy, legal, economic and health. All of this then shows what family policy we have in Slovenia. I hope that we will find a common language and still look again at the future of this matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Mr Dejan Levanič asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and Members! Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that I agree with most of your implementation, especially with regard to what we can do as a society in the area of improving the situation of families, such and others, given that we know what we are in, and since we know that we have done a number of austerity measures with certain measures, particularly in the area of family policy or individuals, in the past, from the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds, including the ZUJF, where we have limited some subsidies to a good proportion of the middle class and also to large families. This must be borne in mind when, regardless of who will lead the government in the coming years, we also convince the ministries, in particular the Ministry of Finance, that much has been done in this area and that we do not actually have any more room for manoeuvre when we talk about reducing any income for individual families. Even in large families, as you said, the ZUJF was one of the measures that it did a great deal in reducing cash flow to individual families. That's just in view, because, you know, we had a debate on the Committee on Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons in this direction about what we've done, and there we presented exactly how much money has been taken from each family. Here we share your opinion that the manoeuvre space to take some supplements or what the family gets is certainly not. With this law before us, there is one clear goal. We wanted to simplify the legislation a little bit in different areas, because this is often our country's problem, that we have a lot of legislation that opens up certain problems in other areas of marriage, and we do not have a uniform family policy everywhere when we talk about children's concerns and so on. So it was definitely not the intention, and here we speak measures through this legislation, any intervention in family policy from this negative salary, but we wanted to be in a difficult financial situation, a few steps in a positive direction when we talk about politics towards families, big, small, whatever. So I must say that we have also taken account of the vast majority of the comments made by the public and the opposition. This debate highlighted the main reduction in the amount of time during which parental leave can be used and, of course, the payment of contributions to mothers with large families, i.e. more than four children, and this is what we wanted to simplify to the length of time when the child completed the first grade of primary school, which is essential to us because it is also bound to school legislation. From this point of view, we have reduced one part slightly, but let's see that there is no great loss here. However, we must say that we have increased the right to a shorter working time. This right was until the age of 6, and is now extended to the end of the first grade of primary school. We've unified some things. We didn't want to cut too much into existing rights. But when we talk about specific rights in mothers when we pay them these contributions – we will still pay them by the end of the first grade of primary school, but it is true that not until the 10th year of the youngest child, because also paying these contributions was on a minimum basis and in some way paying those mothers the lowest possible basis, which means that pensions were also very miserable, low, minimal, and besides the problem that they were the minimum ones needed for some basic survival, we need to know that they were also excluded for longer periods from the labour market. And I agree with you before we want to put them back on the labour market at some point in time, there will be a lot of energy and appropriate systemic measures that will also allow this to happen in the light of the situation in which we are in. But we think that this is a better policy for these women, mothers who certainly play a very large role in society, and it is right that the country has some positive attitude towards them. With the commitment we have made to the Committee to take such measures to allow these mothers to be reintegrated into the labour market, we feel more positive and the right approach to such a solution. There are only two things I would like to point out about the backlogs and the labour market when you mention it. Firstly, it is true, with regard to social legislation, that we have gathered at the Ministry since 2012 and 2013, and we are now in 2014, quite a few decisions that have not yet been resolved. We've really taken an active approach to this now. We also have one part of the basis in the court's ruling, so I assure you, I also told the committee that we are working hard to get these decisions resolved as soon as possible. In the case of child supplements, I have information that one part of the backlog was due mainly to violence, because it is a one-year interval, but that we are also dealing with it in the opposite way, but it is true that there has been a boom in social legislation and that some decisions have not been resolved since 2012. But now we're doing everything we can to get these things back together. As far as the labour market is concerned, it is true that integration into the labour market is difficult, especially in such times. Without the active employment policy of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, I fear that these problems would be even more because we know that the condition for new jobs is certainly economic growth, but right now, because we have been warned many times to stop bragging about the decline in the number of unemployed, which is, after all, true – given that someone is registered unemployed, there is no one in the register – but rather, we are measuring how many people are newly employed, what this number is. In this context, we must say that, given last year, we have already recorded very favourable results, as regards active employment policy, many more young people have been involved in employment. Although our unemployment rate is decreasing, we will monitor this in advance. We have now taken quite a few measures, so that we, too, are heading in the direction and we are aware of the current real situation in the labour market and we understand your concern, and we are certainly doing our best within the limits of what is possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. The word has magic. Majda Potter. Let me also mention what the following speakers will be like: Mr Marijan Pojbič, Mr Jožef Horvat, Mrs Alenka Jeraj and her mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u64	Thank you. Nice greeting to the team from the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities! Some discussers also mentioned the need for strategic decisions concerning family policy when it comes to parental leave and family benefits. We probably have different ideas about where family policy should go. According to the Constitution, parents are primarily obliged to care for children, and the state is also very concerned about this, and I think we need to be careful where the state intervenes and how the state intervenes when we intervene in free will when deciding on the birth of children. So it seems to me that, if they don't have a large family, I think about what's going on in this direction is trying to stigmatize women and attribute careerism to them, if they don't have a large family, it's already an intervention in the right to decide how they're going to live. In particular, I would like to point out this because the latest findings show that there is a renewed increase in the number of those who decide to postpone maternity mainly because they are re-emerging on the labour market with unpleasant employment issues and restrictive employment opportunities, if they also mention the possibility of maternity. Remember, we've had an early signature of contracts or an obligation not to have women's children. With regard to comparative data on the relationship between mothers and fathers in the use of options, I think it is always important to take into account how the number of beneficiaries is moving. And if we are talking about the highest number of mothers involved in the labour market in Slovenia among the European Union countries, then we should support all those measures that are also aimed at a more equal burden with free work, this is work at home. In this context, I therefore deeply regret that we have not listened to or implemented the European Commission's reminder, which has required less discriminatory regulation from us concerning parental leave. We have now found that we have extended our parental leave, not to go with a more balanced relationship and the possibility of showing which direction family policy should go. In particular, I stress that if the activation of women in the labour market is supported, then we should also support a more equitable division of unpaid work in the family. There's only a way forward. However, since the burden is so severe, I am not surprised that some young women are already saying that they do not join the labour market and stay at home. This is a free choice for everyone and I do not want to interfere with an individual's decision, and the fact is that there are families that cannot afford to be employed only one in the family. I would point out, however, that when discussing the family code, it was always possible to listen to allegations of how important the role in the family belonged to the father. And if so, then I would expect more support from all those measures that go towards a more even division of domestic work. This would also be a greater option for educated women, and it would also be one way to reduce wage differences between men and women, as women would rather opt for more important functions if they were offered. What still needs to be stressed in these debates is that I advocate systemic solutions, so I think it is best for the state to do the most to provide universal support both in the children's allowance and, say, in the large family allowance. But if we're now talking about how we've managed these things, it's nice, it's fair to say that he's cut the ZUJF the most deeply, and we should be asking how some of them thought at the time, because if you look at it, the right to help with the birth of a child and the large family allowance is linked to censorship, and this is linked to the ZUJF. As long as we have this on the ZUJF and as long as the ZUJF is valid, the price is 64% of the average net salary in the Republic of Slovenia per person. The same applies to other things, including maternity benefits, and let us be honest and see where these things began and how long they would last. With regard to school nutrition, however, I would warn you that an agreement was reached on the opposition's initiative at the time that we provided higher funds in the budget, 24 million for school nutrition. Now we're giving 31 million for school meals. So to say that this concern for the family has been suppressed at work would be too much. But it is true that we need to be a little less double when we talk about some things. When we think about family policy and what the state should co-finance, we always say that it is too small and that we should give more when we talk about opening jobs and competing women for new jobs, but women often find themselves in a worse position. And then here you can see where the odds are. Of course, I draw attention to positive practices such as family-friendly enterprise. There are many such activities, but it is only necessary to say that until something changes in our perception, as long as the traditional views prevail, and until young women, especially educated women, are stigmatized, I see good opportunities to change into thinking ability. However, it is understandable that the school has an important role to play in this regard in addition to the family. But the fact is, school can't make a difference to what it puts in a child's family. I will, of course, support the law, and once again, I say that I regret that we have not made the European Union's warning bolder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor. I see he's not in the hall right now. Behind him is Mr Franz Jurša, who is also not currently in the Chamber. And then after him, Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian. Will you have a word, Mr. President? Please prepare Dr. Andrej Črnak Maglič and Mag. Stefan Tessel. Here you go, Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u66	Thank you very much. You name so many names, I don't know if it's my turn or not. I'll be brief. I have already said in the opinion of the Group that there are some good solutions in this law, I can say that even a multitude of good solutions are in the care of those who are most in need. It also seems important to me that certain procedures are being simplified at social work centres. What the Secretary of State has already said about a large number of outstanding issues at the centres and at the appeal body at the Ministry – this certainly calls for many procedures to be simplified, both for the centres themselves or for the staff of the professional staff at these centres as well as for the beneficiaries of the centres or for citizens and citizens who also serve the services of the centres. I will mention just one more thing that we have been stressing all the time, which we have already stressed in the opinion of the Group of Members, is the concern for large families. The fact is that the demographic picture forecast for the following periods is extremely poor. The current situation in the field of births is solid in relation to a few years ago, but the longer forecast shows us an extremely bad picture. Therefore, caring for large families, families that give more children, is essential, and we regret that this concern is getting worse in this area. We have received, like everyone else, a few letters from parents with multiple children, with four and more children talking about it – I will take a few sentences from one – that they are grateful to the country to allow better education of children where these large families are, and that in these families it is not just about, I don't know, increasing the scope of household and everyday family life, but it is simply a decision that at least one of the parents sacrifice part of professional, professional and other parts of life in caring for children, after all, in caring for new citizens. And they say that the legislation so far is certainly an example of good practice in this area, so it is also worth keeping. This should be my concluding thought, while in the coming periods it will only be necessary to strive to preserve the care for these large families, of course assuming that care for all families, including single parents' families, is needed, and these movements are positive especially there, and I stress this, because in fact these single parent families – this has long been observed that some single parent families are unfortunately also for various reasons a little artificially declared to be single parents. But of course with all due respect to those single - parent families who for various reasons do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I will begin with that finding, which I will usually begin with – that I am very pleased that Slovenia is one of the most exemplary family policies in Europe and that even in these turbulent times since the 1990s, despite some of the interventions that have been done, the rights we provide to families remain beautiful and very comparable to what they provide in other countries. Of course, I can't help but think that the family is the community where the child lives. That is why I particularly welcome the solutions we bring with the new law that the rights we provide to biological parents are extended to social parents. However, as far as material rights are concerned, these material rights always determine the socio-economic situation. If I recall correctly, the most radical interventions carried out in family policy were carried out in 2012. This is important because these interventions were particularly fatal for middle - class families. If we keep our eyes closed, we cannot go beyond the fact that, in addition to what is expected with regard to employment and the resolution of the housing problem in society, the material assistance we provide to families when they have children affects how they decide about the birth of children. That is why it is far more fatal than some corrections that have been made in families with multiple children. The fact is that this solution is very generous, one of the most generous in Europe, and that the fact that they are in line with other legislation will not necessarily affect the reduction of fertility as suggested. I would like to point out once again that in the Slovenian space a study was carried out at the Children's Observatory, which operates within the Social Protection Institute, which has clearly found that the perception of women in the family, what this burden means for them, or to simplify: or also in Slovenian society, we are following trends in Europe, a trend towards a more even shift of burden between both parents. And in spite of all of this, we must admit that we have not taken such important steps as in some other developed countries. Therefore, if we are to have more children or somehow realize what parents want, we will have to do more in this regard and, of course, support it. Last but not least, the legal standards that we have somehow anathemaised in the current amendment of the law to say so also contribute to this. I'd like to touch up the school lunches. I would like to reiterate that this was the consensus of both sides in the search for a solution. Remember, not only did we help to vote an amendment to the budget, but I also proposed a law on school meals, which we then merged, both on the legislator's side, your government's side, and my proposal, in order to greatly increase access to lunches and also to lunch. So somehow in this spirit, I would close this call and say: Let us go on hand in hand for the benefit of the family. I am convinced that the solution ahead of us, which has greatly extended certain rights, is a step forward or what all of us who care about families and children strive to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mag. Stefan Tessel has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u70	Say good-bye to everyone again! The Parental Protection and Family Benefit Act is just one of the grounds for positive family policy. We know that young people who are still studying, who are not yet employed, are more likely to get a job and postpone their first birth there by the age of 30, so that the number of children is significantly reduced. Currently, the demographic picture of Slovenia is somehow still positive, or a few more births than death, but trends are poor. We know that now the grandchildren of the baby boom generation are born there from the '50s, so these swings are constantly repeating. But the examples are bad, so that more attention should be given to young people in order to give birth to mothers in at least 20 years, not for the first time in 30, so that young people get employment, and that housing policies for young people can adapt to the situation where they find it difficult to get an apartment and there are many unscathed, unscathed dwellings. However, the state should lay some groundwork for young families, young couples, especially if they want to have children or if they have children, to come to their homes in some long-term way. The law brings great news in a positive direction. Indeed, the greatest is that the child is there first and that the social parents, or those who care for the child, also have parental leave, parental allowances, and so on. So this is one step forward, as far as child protection is concerned. We regret, however, that the amendments on the committee that somehow sought to retain those benefits of the large families that are in the present law have not been taken into account. In the Slovenian Democratic Party Group we supported these efforts, but something small happened, so we somehow reached the common language and kept some things, including payments and the like, that the matter had improved. Father's leave was extended to 30 days, though fictitiously so far, 15 days at birth and 15 days at the end, as well as the execution was suspended. This is enough for this European directive. In the meantime, the transfer of parental leave is practically maintained, so that parents agree on who will benefit more from parental leave, for today, with such hard work — perhaps someone is unemployed or better suited to be at home because he is building a career or even studying, has a better salary and so on. So it is a better solution to keep the present one, so that those 130 days can be passed on to mother or 100 days by mother to father to combine it, so that it is better for the family budget, for upbringing and everything. If we look at what is still good in this law, these are reduced administrative procedures for both the employer and the social work centre, making matters easier and easier. So there's quite a few good sides to the law. Therefore, as we have said, we do not oppose the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, but we will probably support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The floor is also open to the proposer, i.e. the Government – if you like, Mr. Secretary of State? You don't want to right now. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Since I see that there is no desire for further discussion, I am concluding a full debate on the proposal for a law. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. The assembly will decide on the draft law in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 9th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on the prevention of work and employment in black under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the draft law, I give the floor here to the representative of the Government, Mr Dejan Levanič, to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello to you all again! With the new proposal for a law on job prevention and employment, we are introducing a number of key innovations, which, above all, would encourage a reduction in this scope. On the one hand, we impose stricter sanctions on those who do the work in black and for those who are in fact employed. The transfer of powers to the customs administration also increases the control of employment and work in black. However, in order to make this work as effective as possible, employers will have to have a copy of the contract of civil law or of the contract of temporary and temporary employment, because this is where the biggest abuses occur. Otherwise, a brief review of the news brought by the law. Well, it's a simplified procedure for applying for short-term work. I've already said that a copy of the contract must be kept at the place of work. Unauthorised advertising of work or employment in black is more precisely defined. It provides for the taking away of property benefits. Access to certain databases shall be established for supervisory authorities. A measure of exclusion from public procurement procedures in the event of a violation of the law is also included. The most important increase is the fine for black work when done by an individual. This is what we know in the field, where the supervisory authorities have been alerting the rise of this type of work over the years to black and to a substantial understatement in relation to the gravity of the offence. Another key amendment introduced by the proposal for a law on prevention of work and employment in black is the introduction of so-called personal supplementary work valuations, which will make it a condition for the legal performance of this type of work, while also introducing in this field the principle of each work counts and we will recognise the rights of persons carrying out such work from pension and disability insurance and health insurance. At the same time, the new system does not bring major administrative obstacles. On the contrary, registration of personal supplemental work will be easier. In the case of works performed for known contracting authorities – we are talking about services – the value of the contractor must be purchased. In the case of works performed for largely unknown contracting entities – we are talking about the production of products or the collection of herbs – the valuation must be purchased by the insurer himself. The value shall be valid for the calendar month for the individual contractor of the personal supplemental work. The valuation price is set at €9 for pension and disability insurance, €7 for health insurance and €2 for health insurance. Since it has also been repeatedly pointed out on the parental committee that we have not precisely defined why such a level of contribution should be explained at this point that we have made calculations for the monthly value so that one value is approximately equal to one day of retirement. The value will also be purchased via the e-government web portal or directly on the administrative unit. The definition of personal supplemental work after a new one does not deviate substantially from the current regime, except that works of a nature of services can only be performed in the case of natural persons. The notification of a personal supplemental work shall be transmitted after a new one to Apes, where a notification can be made via an online portal. Persons who are unable or willing to do so online will also be able to do so on administrative units. The amount of revenue generated for personal supplementary work shall be limited to two average salaries in each half of the calendar year and shall also be a clear list of works envisaged for personal supplementary work. Also on the basis of the debate held on the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, the coalition parliamentary groups, on a proposal from the opposition, have also drafted amendments that, in addition to neighbouring assistance, introduce related assistance. The Article on neighbourhood aid does not change compared to the current arrangements and, according to information, the supervisory authorities do not face problems on the ground in implementing or assessing this provision. The Coalition, the Government and, above all, the Ministry, are convinced that, with the new proposal for a law on prevention of work and employment, at the same time, we impose higher sanctions on those who do work in black and those who do work in black, while at the same time giving people the values of some motivational element or the opportunity to carry out their work in a legal way and thus recognise the rights they belong to. We are convinced that the proposal for a law is indeed an important step towards preventing and detecting black work and, as such, constitutes part of the country's comprehensive fight against the grey economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Hello again! The Committee considered the draft law on prevention of work and employment in black, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following a regular procedure. The National Assembly held a general debate on the draft law and concluded that the proposal for a law was suitable for further consideration. Parliamentary coalition groups and the SDS Group tabled amendments to the bill. The Legislative and Legal Service has given an opinion on the draft law, which includes both general comments and comments to each article. In its opinion, the Council of State supported the bill. It also supported the possibility of performing a personal complementary work. It believes that the new purpose would be to get to know the potential contracting authorities and contractors and people as well as to inform them more effectively. The Council of State estimates that it is good that the proposal for a law no longer contains provisions relating to the limitation of the permitted amount of aid between neighbourly aid and free aid on farms, mountains and common pastures at the time of the seasonal peaks for the collection of primary agricultural products and for the dispatch of livestock. To supplement the articles, the representative of the applicant briefly presented the basic reasons for the adoption of the law and explained the personal complementary work more precisely. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out that, in order to derogate from the system of equality, there must be real and reasonable reasons for the law, based on the nature of the matter, which must be explained more precisely. In the debate on the individual articles of the draft law and amendments, some discussers, under Article 1, which lays down, inter alia, when and what is considered to be black work, whose activities are not considered to be work or to be black employment, stressed that the most problematic regulation regarding the valuation, which was also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service. The draft law amends the system of personal supplementary work, including the payment of contributions to pensions, disability and health insurance through a valuation. Some discussers felt that the payment of these contributions should also be subject to the same system regime as those laid down in the system laws in the field of pension and health insurance. They also had comments on the principle of each work taken into account, the aim of which is to increase the burden of taxpayers to pay their contribution and to increase solidarity, since the value is not bound to the number of hours or to pay. The question is what will be the actual earnings of the person when he pays his income, what will be his control, and the inequality in rights related to actual work have also been highlighted. Proponents of the proposal for a law and regulation of the level of contributions for personal complementary work with a valuer stressed that they wanted to relieve financially and administratively the individual who would carry out such work. The State must enable an individual to easily get to work and get paid for it. The principles of "every work counts" and "euro is the same euro" must be understood as a process. There's somewhere to start. This law is a piece in the mosaic of the fight against the grey economy. A new principle of payment is introduced, greater security in the agreement between a natural person and another natural person, and the possibility of legal payment of certain services is also given, which has not been possible until now. They also rejected comments that the grey economy was going at the wrong end, because there was nowhere to start; there were few real answers to the idea. It was pointed out that the proposal was in line with the social partners. The proposal certainly brings a lot of positive things as well, and we also need to do something about getting a mental turn at work in black. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. The Committee shall comply with 128. The articles of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended proposal was prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Since the National Assembly held a general discussion at its 21st meeting on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 2 April 2014. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendments tabled by the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? If he does not wish, I shall conclude the debate on the amendment tabled and Article 5. We're moving on to Article 7. Since the amendments of the SDS Group and the amendments of the members of the positive Slovenia Group, the Social Democrats, the National Gazette and the Democratic Party of the Slovenian Retired to Articles 7, 8 and 9 are substantively linked, we will discuss them together. Therefore, I am putting to the debate paragraphs 7, 8 and 9 and the three amendments of the SDS Group of Members and the three amendments of the groups of the positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National Gazette and the Democratic Party of the pensioners of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? He does. Because it wants to, I am opening an application for a debate on Articles 7, 8 and 9 and the amendments tabled. Mrs. Romana Tomc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. I just want to explain the contents of these amendments. These are complemented solutions in the area of neighbourhood aid and related assistance. As you know, a few years ago, there was a lot of work, including a referendum on the subject, on the admissibility or inadmissibility of neighbourhood aid and the treatment of this aid. I am pleased that this time you have listened to our proposals and to this neighbourhood assistance and at the same time have arranged for mutual assistance so that there will be no special problems here. There have also been many words on the Committee about this proposal, which sets out more precisely what neighbouring aid or related assistance is, and I can only conclude that if we could take another step forward so that the coalition would once adopt good solutions to the opposition in a way that would confirm the amendment, then it would probably not be necessary to come into the situation where we have a perfectly identical amendment on the bench, both the SDS Group and the coalition groups. Regardless of which amendment you will vote for in the coalition, I am sure that you will be yours, but I consider it to be a great pleasure and a great success that, with our idea and our amendment, we have succeeded in convincing our colleagues in the coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u77	Thank you very much. He also wants to have a magic word or a discussion. Ivan Vogrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Madam President, for the floor. I think there will be a precedent today and the opposition amendments will be accepted. As for the proposed articles and the purpose of the law in general, I will give my position. Look, we're talking about that neighborhood aid is not a black job. Well, I guess working in my own directing isn't, 'cause it's probably everybody's doing their own work, so I don't get it. Urgent work, humanitarian work, charity work, then short-term work, urgent work. So I think the effect of this law is generally very questionable. Why? Because we have a lot of provisions that determine what's not working in black. Those who have to work in black will, of course, find it difficult to persecute them under this law. And the solution in all countries, here is a lot of comparative analysis, to reduce the grey economy and work in black, is a few measures. The first step is to reduce the wage burden in the Slovenian case by at least one 16 to 25%. Secondly, to introduce the possibility for employers to pay 13 and 14 salaries with minimum burdens, as they have in Austria, 6.5%. We can't do that either. And the next is to reduce administration in employment and forgiveness. Many employers decide to work in black because they need quick help for some temporary shorter work, but the procedure for applying and dismissing this worker in Slovenia is actually unique to the whole world. And that's what needs to be done in the first place. This law is likely to be adopted. No amendment of the opposition is likely to be adopted, and we already know it in advance. However, the impact will be approximately the same as the impact of legislation over the last 20 years. We're getting more and more gray. Thank you very much. For better results it will be necessary to change the approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? He does. Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. As follows from the amendments to Articles 7, 8 and 9, these are identical amendments. The Committee has clearly expressed its preference for the substantive solutions provided by these amendments. However, it was said that these ideas should also be examined and implemented from a legislative and legal point of view. And we did it. In short, it's not true we didn't listen to the opposition. On the contrary, we've adopted all three amendments, and that's why they're written here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? He does. Mr Dragan Bosic and Mrs Romana Tomc also receive the floor. Do you have a replica? Of course, Mrs. Tomcheva.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u82	I wanted to replicate to a colleague of Black Blur's. I was misunderstood, my esteemed colleague. I said that I thank you for having adopted our ideas, but of course I regret that they could not have been accepted, as we suggested, but that someone had to adopt them and then somehow present them for their own. But, yes, of course, I agree with you, our ideas and our solutions have been adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Dragan Bosic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. But I like that, this communication now and this dialogue. Because it is actually some kind of competition, who has done something good, has found some good solution. And since the actual start-up solution was offered by the SDS, I like it and I have no problem supporting it, in a sense, perhaps as an option, if we compete for some benefit and just support the one who at some point pulls things in the right direction. However, I would like to make one comment on these exceptions. I'm talking about the 7th, 8th and 9th Amendments, but the exceptions, I should have warned you about something. In particular, urgent work, including all works intended to prevent natural disasters. Works that are designed to prevent natural disasters, I would put in a set of some, I don't know, higher values than an exception to black work. I don't know if you're thinking the same way I am, but if someone with their work can prevent natural disasters, then it's already a bunch of some Nobel laureates or I don't know who, then it's kind of a slightly higher category. If I had known earlier about the replica of Tomce's colleague, I would not have even spoken in this sense, but I would have stressed that it is not a problem in terms of who and what and how, but a solution is good. One thing to look out for, however, is working in your own directing. But this can sometimes be a dangerous matter if you are some kind of electricity or something. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss articles 7, 8 and 9 and the amendments tabled? If he doesn't want to, I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to Article 12. Since the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 12 is linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Articles 13, 14, 15, 19, 28, 29, 30, 31 and 32, we will discuss them together. So I put into discussion paragraphs 12, 13, 14, 15, 19, 28, 29, 30, 31 and 32 and the amendments of the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? He wants to, so I am opening an application for a debate on those articles and the amendments tabled. Mr Marko Pavlisic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. This collection of articles speaks mainly of the introduction of valuations and, as the proposaler's presentation mistakenly stated, that valuations in some way legalise personal complementary work, this is not the case. Personal complementary work is already completely legal, otherwise the solution is a little different, but this does not change the fact that it is already legally regulated. Let me go for 10 reasons why this proposed solution is not good. The contribution introduced for specific complementary work through the valuations is disproportionate in line with the established ratios between contributions to health and pension work in other forms of work so far. This is a pretty big imbalance with regard to these relationships. Secondly, instead of any work being considered, the principle of each paper is introduced. The same value should be applied regardless of whether someone works 30 days or just one day. The same work, e.g. 100 hours for one contracting entity compared to 10 hours for 10 contracting entities, which is again 100 hours, requires ten times less paid contributions. That was the third reason. Four. It is wrong to assume that all taxes and contributions are also paid by purchasing the value. Only contributions shall be paid. The person who does the work must still issue the invoice paid by the contracting authority and the contractor must report it. Of course, no more than four times a year, he does not report more than four times a year, but only twice a year, and he also has to pay his own income. The solution to pay contributions is that, at the same time as income, contributions would be substantially more systematic and significantly more similar to the solutions so far. We are reminded of this by both the Department of Health Insurance and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. I hope that Mrs Potrata is also listening, which is very often very important to her. It is the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. Fifth. Debirokratization. Indeed, the law introduces half a year instead of quarterly reporting, while also introducing additional papers, introduces a valuation. This is one step forward and five steps back. Six. Such changes cannot come to life if they are not widely presented to target audiences, as they are called. But the target audience here is all citizens and citizens, which means that we need to go into a broad advertising action that we have witnessed in the past. And how much money are there for this account? 0 euro. EUR 0 000, EUR 0 million. Without it, unfortunately, such a solution cannot come to life. It's a week. It's a mess. Look, if I need any help ironing my shirts, I'm gonna ask some acquaintances around, or someone they know, if they're recommending someone. Let's say it's Mrs. Aysha. And let's make a deal. I'm going to the website to get this box and Mrs. Aysha isn't registered there. Does this mean that Mrs. Aysha cannot do this work? No, that doesn't mean that. Mrs Ajša can be registered as espa, she can be registered as an afternoon espa, and last but not least Mrs Ajša can be employed by the company that deals with it, and we get a full regular salary for such companies, called a dry cleaner, laundry and ironing room. And now I'm going to make a deal with Mrs Aisha and I need to know in what form she's doing it, so I have to be aware of all the forms that are possible here, deal with her somehow, and then I just see if I need a valuation or I don't need a valuation and what it's all about now. Eight. Why are the values really being introduced? The values are actually introduced to make it easier to control those carrying out such tasks. Because the contracting authority will in some way incriminate the performer by obtaining the value. And then the possibility will open up for the Tax Administration, Inspector or anyone who already exercises this control, and then on this basis calls on this contractor to pay the rest of the taxes. There is nothing wrong with this, of course all taxes must be paid, but we must also be aware here that the valuation is not a document that proves that this work has actually been done and that it has been charged, but that it has only been ordered. The value of this objective will not be met; we must be aware of this. The value of this solution does not mean that this work has also been actually done and that an account has been issued for it, as it may be in some other countries where there are solutions to actually pay for this work with this valuation and then we can also pursue such goals. That's not the case. Nine. Will additional work be easier or harder after a new one? Will it be more interesting or less interesting? Will more people in this way solve their difficult financial situation because of the crisis we are in or fewer people? This relatively favourable form of work is hereby terminated for legal persons. We are informed of the problems involved by various organizations, such as those involved in social work, congregations, and tourism organizations. The maximum amount for such work shall be lower. The values increase the administrative burden. All of this suggests that such a work will be less interesting. And in the current crisis situation, we should be weighing in a very different direction, not in the way we're going with the values. And not for the last time, for the tenth time. In Slovenia, we have a problem of contentious work. But a solution in a way that limits such forms of work, that we in fact prohibit them in some way or make them very difficult, and in doing so we hope that this will result in more regular, permanent forms of employment, which we all want, is just hope and that is just desire. Until some Santa comes with a magic wand and gives us those wishes, that's not gonna happen. Obstruction of chaotic jobs only causes the abolition of these forms of employment and the forces of people who have somehow solved their difficult financial status, to work in black. Zal. Because of this, by tightening the conditions for individual forms of unfair work, which certainly cannot be supported, we will not solve the problems of these people who do not get a permanent job. In short, in these difficult times, it is not expected to increase the number of regular jobs to force, so limiting these forms does not make sense. In order to increase employment, it is necessary to take other measures; the business environment needs to be changed in a positive direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Ms Kristina Valenčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. It is not my pleasure to speak, nor is it my practice to debate and vote as a coalition Member against the solutions proposed by the Government. That is why I, as well as my fellow Members, have tried to draw closer to each other in the course of coalition coordination, but we have not been successful. About an hour ago in this National Assembly, we discussed the amendment to the Foreigners Act, which removes administrative obstacles and simplifies the procedures for obtaining work and residence permits. Why am I bringing this up? Since the Ministry of Labour has made a significant contribution in this regard, the licensing procedures are carried out by the employment institutions which are under the responsibility of this Ministry. And that's why I find it even more difficult to understand the stubborn insistence of the ministry on the wolf system. Obviously our arguments were not good enough, sufficiently convincing and the law in the legislative process received the appropriate support that, of course, we are here today at second reading. Today, however, we have a new opportunity to reconsider whether we are not repeating the story with carriers by introducing valuations. I'm sure we should learn something from this story of carriers and not repeat mistakes. I submit that by introducing the values that are introduced within the existing system of personal spare parts, two different systems – one for those who provide services and another for those who sell products that they create themselves – we do not simplify the system, but we complicate it and additionally burden it. And this is not only on the website of the operators, but also on the website of the users of these services. And not once, but every month. And this is not my lonely opinion, we have also heard the opinion of the Institute for Health Care, the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia and some other. One of the simplest and least burdened forms of work is complicated, and we force people to intervene in black work. And when do people do the most after work in black? When they are forced to do so, either because of the financial situation in which the supervisory authorities do not perform their functions; when in society the opinion is that work is not worth doing, that it is not worth doing, and that it is necessary to bring the country around at every corner, either when we have a complicated system of reporting work, charging duties, that is, when we have work overloaded. And today we are in this situation. That's why I'm sure we need to deal with the problem for reasons of origin. We need to stimulate people to work and we need to simplify procedures, not make it difficult and kill the desire to work. I would therefore expect to expand the range of activities that we can carry out as a personal complement and that we will combine and regulate the rest of the work in a similar way. We do the opposite. Thus, it will no longer be possible to do personal extra work for legal persons but only for natural persons. Of course, there is also a positive effect on the introduction of this system of sheepdogs. I see it, in particular, in that it will make the work of the inspection bodies significantly easier, which cannot be a key objective. The first and key objective must be to relieve work and enable people to work. To illustrate, for example, the case itself, what it means to introduce valuations into practice. The pensioner, who has the will and health to allow it, wants to earn an additional euro and therefore decides to pick up a few pounds of mushrooms and, of course, sell them. That's why he's going to sign up for a personal supplemental work system and buy himself a valedictorian. His neighbor, who is a farmer, will need nothing to do with the same number of kilograms of mushrooms, needs no value and does not need to enter the system of personal complementary work. But his wife is going to have to do it if, like, in winter, she's gone to five napkins and she wants to sell them. We're going the wrong way. We're targeting the wrong crowd. I support the government's activities to wipe out the grey economy. What about health care, lawyers, where the gray economy goes into millions? Is that where we're introducing the sheepdog system? So if I draw the line, do we unload the work? No, no, no. Are we removing administrative obstacles? No, no, no. We're simplifying procedures? No, no, no. Do we apply the principle of each work counts? Not at all. Instituting reasonable and proportionate fines? No, no, no. The answer is clear to me personally. I will support this amendment, as well as all other substantive amendments, because I am truly, sincerely, firmly convinced that by introducing the values, we will make a great deal of confusion between people, that we will complicate procedures and make it difficult to carry out personal complementary work. And as formerly said, Comrade Marko, the principle of each work will be considered to be unfortunately produced in principle every paper counts. To be clear, I object only to the system of the introduction of valuations. The other solutions that this law brings are good, and therefore I will support the law if, of course, we will be able to accept these amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Dragan Bosic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u90	Thanks again. One thing we see differently. All the questions that the colleague asked herself and answered in no way, I would answer yes, from a simplified to a solution to this work, which is being addressed by applying to the administrative unit for the time being. But the key thing I see in these values is the key benefit or the benefit is that you sleep well. I can't say by the point of why, but I can say that it's great that I think it's great, but because you solve your status with a valor, you're going to do what you would probably do in black and contribute to the grey economy and then think about when and who will report you, when and where you're going to pay the penalty or tax for what you're doing. The concept of every work is also considered here in the ratio of 7:1 and 7:2 for pension and health is also okay, because this work is then recorded and counted somewhere. Once again, the key is simplification. I'm just looking at the matter from this point of view of simplification. Because you're in an I.P.P.E. with a valedictorian. I was interested in choosing the name Aisha before. I would say that I need someone to help me lay wood and that's Mr Dragan and then I get a fortune teller, preferably 1st in the month, not last one, because it's a discrehensive woman, who is also strange to me personally. But until another solution is found, it is necessary to accept it. From what I've seen, Durs has a lot of trouble recording these hands. In short, I take the matter as an important step in the fight against the grey economy and black work. That is why I will not support the amendment to Article 12 and all those who then become irrelevant if we do not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Do you have a replica? Sure. Mr. Marko Pavlišič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. I owe you an explanation for choosing the word Aisha. This is the name I proposed to get my first daughter, and I failed to negotiate with my wife, so now we have Nastya, who is just as beautiful a name.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Excuse me, mag. Hotchevar. Madam Minister Anja Kopač Dark asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Perhaps I would like to start with this debate, which has already been on the committee and many times before, perhaps by recalling the situation at this point. Today we have a personal supplemental job in this country that you report to the administrative unit, which the contractor has to report to Durs for three months. With the health intervention law you have adopted in the National Assembly, you have not made an exception to the payment of contributions to the personal supplementary work. This means that with effect from 1 February 2014 in that country, anyone who will perform a personal supplementary work shall pay the contributions of 6,35 % and ZPIZ. If we look at it, for example, for the 300 euros she will earn, poor Mrs Aysha will have to report to Dursa monthly according to the REK forms. Its income under this heading will be substantially reduced as it will pay from the income it will report, the contribution of pension and health insurance. Because we wanted to sort things out in a slightly less administratively burdensome way, we decided on the values. The value is an option and we see it, as was the proposaler's wish to make people who are working in black today who are working in our homes to give them an incentive to apply for personal complementary work. Since we speak, this law has been in public coordination and with the social partners since June last year, we have seen a significant increase in the share of applications for personal supplementary work. Nine thousand 391 people have been reported at this time. So just by talking about this, yes, unfortunately we do not have the millions of resources to encourage the public to do this, and of course any debate contributes to this, of course, that people are aware of the different possibilities of legal work they are doing today in black. We wanted above all – that the law would not fall out as a mere sanctioning of people and raising the fines and improving the possibility of control, because these are other elements of this law – to give people an incentive and therefore we introduced a valuer because we believed that maybe some woman who works at home would be unemployed, she was missing until she retired and could no longer pay a voluntary contribution or she could pay it, but it was not counted as a retirement period, but only as a measure that she would have some payment of this value before she could retire. Maybe. However, because of course we did not want to burden the system administratively more than possible, it was a generalisation. The value is the average value. We have calculated these 7 euro pensions on the basis of one day's work. So this was for the monthly average, where you do not forget, it is a personal complementary work that can be carried out in natural persons, is limited to which services can be performed and is limited to the amount itself. This is different from perhaps afternoon espionage or espionage in general because espé can do anything. And perhaps as an answer to Mr Pavlišić, if perhaps Mrs Aisha, for whom you would like to do this work, the afternoon espa or espa, will issue you an account. No problem at all, she puts you on the bill, you pay. However, if this Aisha is an unemployed person and you would do it under your hand, then it may be better to take your time here, go to the e-government, pay a value of €9 and then provide Aisha with one day of retirement. There is no deviation from the pension system, because the value and amount of money to be paid for this person connected to the ZPIZ-2 and 60% of the average wage is EUR 210 at the moment. Once the person has paid 210 euro of the value, she will have one month of retirement. You can say, and I agree that's not enough if someone's working. This system is better for those who do personal supplementary work with different contracting authorities, because they can have monthly multiple valuations paid and thus have an earlier period of retirement. But simply from the point of view of the real state of possibility, reporting and not further administrative burden, we have made some flats. We can talk about how we would like it to be even more fair, that it would be different, but then we need to immediately answer how we will establish this, if you already have some concerns about the implementation of this system that is simple. You pay via e-government, you can even pay with a credit card, and we agreed with Durs, and it wasn't easy to pay in this way, and then this valuation is arranged, contributions are paid. Durs himself, when he receives the bill, will take EUR 7 to Mrs Iša at her expense of ZPIZ and 2 euros to the health treasury. If we leave and do not accept the values, this means that when Durs gives instructions in accordance with the law, each individual, the contractor, in this case Ajša, will have to report on this and pay contributions as a percentage of the income achieved. Now you can answer yourself how administrative will be and how real that will be. That's why we've given you one month to pay for it once a month as an individual, and you have it for a month, so it's valid if someone works for you. But you pay a person in cash, and you have to issue an account, and under the second law, of course, these blocks could not be purchased only in bookshops, but will be counted in Durs to reduce. You, Mr Pavlišič, have pointed out that we wanted to do this primarily in order to exercise better control. This is one of my arguments to you because you were answering why the contractor didn't pay for all this. I think we wanted, as I said from the beginning, to give an incentive to the people who are doing this work between us to register because registration is already simple, in the administrative unit, today you have an opportunity on the iPad. Plus these arrangements are now that once you're registered on Ipes, it's a publicly accessible record. At this point, if someone works for me at home and says, "I have a personal supplemental job reported," it's hard to sit down and see if it's true. It's also going to be a plus-one to make Apple's records publicly available. People say to me, "Why should I apply for a personal supplemental job?".. Since we know that we cannot control and reduce black work in the same way in all places, we wanted to give people one chance, that there is some incentive to register and here we have seen this possibility of paying contributions even in relation to logic every work counts. Of course, this is not fully accomplished because you have a personal complementary job, so it is a complementary work that is different from other forms of work that an employee, an unemployed person and also pensioners can do. For example, there was a lot of speech, including in public these days, why the pensioner paid for the contribution if he had already retired and had already paid contributions for his retirement. My answer is that our pension system is based on intergenerational solidarity. Inside, the pension of most pensioners is paid and is solidarity in the system. If we want this solidarity to continue for future generations, it is imperative that everyone who works contribute something. And I believe that pensioners do not mind if they work and contribute this form, i.e. in addition to the 7 euros, and that this will not mean that they would not want it. In my interviews, too, they understood this explanation as such. But if we repeatedly expose only things that can be problematic, only bad things, we also question people whether it is worth it or not. That's right. However, I believe that what we talked about today has been discussed since July, people have accepted, a lot of people are calling for when it will be adopted, when it will be established, how many people are doing it, and when it is calculated. As much as they might have recognized retirement age, they take it as a plus. However, you cannot compare personal complementary work with other forms of work. So the key was to give incentives to people to report that we are not only raising fines. Yeah, the fact is, the fines are up. At the proposal of the inspection services, fines have been raised on a proposal from the Commission for the prevention of work and employment on the black and also on the National Lists. We have been raised mainly for rainforests, because we probably all agree that the EUR 208 penalty for not registering is not dissuasive, and that people are happy to pay 104 euros and continue their work as it is. This is on my side for now, and I will be happy to explain further in the debate if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u96	Once again a very nice greeting to all present! The fact is that the law brings something appropriate, I believe that the necessary and good solutions are needed. However, I would like ourselves to succeed, although with the opposition amendment, in adopting Article 12 and removing the system of valuations from the proposed law. And since this is my position against the government, it also seems fair to me to say why. See, in Slovenia we have a lot of forms of work, student work, essays and afternoon essays, business and copyright contracts, a certain and indefinite time. I'm sure we don't need the values. All we need is a smart reform of work, where we will even all forms from a cost perspective. This is what we need right now. I think that if every job were to be counted, I am the first one to press the "yes" button with ten fingers, but I agree with my colleagues who have debated before me, that only every paper counts. Unfortunately, he will not pay all taxes and contributions with the value bought by the contracting authority. He will settle only the contributions, the contractor will still have to issue an invoice to the contracting authority and withdraw the income. And it seems to me that with this purchase of value, we are only giving Durs the opportunity to exercise easier control. 25. 2. Dursu owed so many legal and natural persons that we had 956 million debts from those who owed the country over EUR 5,000. I would like to make an effort to erase this, not to impose an additional administrative burden on those who collect mushrooms and blueberries. But maybe one of them bothers me even more, since it will no longer be possible to carry out supplementary work with legal persons or self-employed entities. I have already pointed out this through my colleagues in coalition coordination. And now in these days, 28. 3. Members have also been informed by the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia before this hearing. One very good example was cited, an example of the Kobari Museum. They also carry out activities under the registration of personal supplemental work, carry out 700 to 800 manuals per year, and those who perform personal supplementary work for them are mostly pensioners because they are the only ones who can be so flexible that they can come to the museum for an hour or two or when necessary. You know, personal complementary work is also an institute, which unfortunately also needs to be served by some, although rare, social work centres. They resolve this form so that they can perform public care at home. This is also sometimes, in certain cases, in remote places, because it is not the same every month, the most flexible form of work. This change will no longer be possible. No municipalities, no companies owned by the municipality and no social work centres will be able to do so. These are the main reasons why I will support the amendment to Article 12 and those amendments which relate to this, although I understand the Government's efforts to contribute in one area to improving prevention of work in black, as some have said. But, look, it won't be enough. It'll be a drop into the sea. We need, as I said, smart reform working in this area. And these are my reasons for supporting this amendment. I hope we make it. However, I am aware and understand that not only are values, but in particular those other solutions in the law are also necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Ms Anja Kopač Dark has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u98	I'm sorry, I forgot to give an answer to a piece on legal persons earlier. Look, at first you told me you wanted to review different forms of work. I think that is exactly what Mrs Romani Tomc's Members have answered in their question about the various forms of work and the contributions. So, at the Ministry we're preparing this, that's also an agreement, you know, we're going this way. But you mentioned them anyway. You mentioned working relationships, this is a fixed-term employment contract, you mentioned civil law contracts, copyright and business contracts, you mentioned afternoon espé and espé, of course other forms. But this is one of the reasons that we have limited personal supplementary work only for natural persons, because natural persons very difficult and rarely sign and write a contract and at the same time pay through REK forms contributions which must be made in accordance with the law. And that's the answer. A legal person is qualified, has the opportunity to accept for various forms of work different forms of contracts, and it is right that we have different forms of contracts in the system for different forms of work. And espa or the Kobari Museum can conclude an copyright or a business contract, I personally find it harder to hire a nanny or maybe someone to help me clean my apartment. And this may be the first step towards clearing out different forms of work for different purposes. Personal supplementary work can be carried out, and this is a key restriction, in the case of natural persons. Therefore, it is also limited in the range of what can be done. Therefore, the Regulation controls which services we can provide under personal complementary work. Because if we started to expand and do this, for example, with legal persons, as you have pointed out - for example, we have received calls from the Ministry that some companies would like seasonal work where the U.S.R., the Labour Relations Act, provides for a specific form of contract for such works, to put under personal complementary work. No, that wasn't our purpose. We wanted a simple arrangement for natural persons, not so that legal persons could get their workers to work in person. This is one of the key reasons and this is also the purpose of reviewing different forms of work. Of course, we must urgently go towards equalizing the costs of different forms of work, which does not mean the nature of different forms of work, because different forms must remain in the system. Of course, the different cost regulation causes segmentation in the labour market and we are aware of that. And this is also one of the measures we talk about in the coalition. That's why the answer is "no" for legal persons. To what you first pointed out to be a problem for you, I now answer you as to why the answer is no. The thing is, if we want to see them like this, it's pretty simple. But if not, we can find many reasons against it over and over again. We've already told each other all this. Now the opposition is happy to listen to us. We have said this in several meetings, so that nothing will be new, the vote will be what it will be. I will try to complete, if I say so, with my explanations to stand behind the proposal of the evaluators, because I believe in this proposal of the evaluators, that those women who are 56, 58 years old who do not meet the conditions for retirement will be helped in our homes that this value will not be empty for them, as you said. Perhaps someone in the middle layer, who is mostly used in these services, is more likely to pay these extra €9. And I believe that we don't have people who like things arranged, and if we have the opportunity to have things arranged, we use them. And that was the goal of these values. The fact is that the law would have been passed long ago if it had not been for the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to continue with these values. But because we have coordinated with the Ministry of Finance – because there is something else to say that we are actually introducing a complete novelty into our tax system, because for natural persons we are introducing the possibility of paying via the flat-rate. This isn't in this system. And for over three months, we've spent a lot of time with Durs to agree on this technique to go on a click today. And I still say that the administrative system – in view of what people will get out of it, that in their personal account at the Zpiz there will still be €7 added, and once these 7 euros will be taken into account – a good solution and that all this work, I hope, was not in vain. If it may be in vain, the other government will accept a slightly different matter for a second time, and there will be a consensus. That's right. Things need to be done. Whoever's working makes a mistake, but I'll try to convince you of what I believe in as long as I can. Of course, you are, like the National Assembly, a legislative body, and by your vote, you will either confirm the values or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mrs. Romana Tomc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. I am convinced, Madam Minister, that in fact we have all come up with an opinion here and that today we will not be able to convince each other of anything. But we will, and we have the opportunity to explain why we feel as we do, why these solutions seem good to us, or why they do not seem good to us. So I will now take this opportunity to discuss all of these amendments or this group of amendments, which, like all of you have already detailed before me, is reorganising personal complementary work. And maybe I'll start where the minister tried to explain with a few arguments why this solution is good to look for solutions for natural persons, how these natural persons would make it easier to work. But on the other hand, if that were true, then there would be no obstacles to not working for the natural person for whom you seek solutions, including legal persons. Well, the point is, who's the contracting agent, not who's the contractor. It is important whether the contracting entity is a legal person or a natural person. I agree with you, Minister, that it is necessary to take strong action against the various forms and ways of exploiting employees and workers, which employers know very well and know how to do, but that does not require making life more complicated for everyone else. This is the task of the authorities we have in this country, various inspection services, to prosecute such things harshly. But because we want to prevent one legal person from doing this physical work — as Katarina’s colleague mentioned, for example, leading around a museum — by not seeing that anything wrong would happen in such cases as she points out — because we want to prevent it from happening to someone, we will now crush everything. This is one way or another in this country. Once we find one of the violators, what do we do? We're not punishing that violator, but we're making the system complicated to make everyone else's head hurt. And that's why I think that the way to solve this is to come once into a system where we would have fewer forms of work and to be more uniform and equally burdened does not lead through the process of introducing a new form today. Nor do I believe that the values – despite, I believe that the good intentions of the ministry – will mean less grey economies in our country, which is of course a problem. Of course, we all agree on this, but far away from making any step forward. My colleague, Hočevareva, also mentioned the amount of unpaid taxes in this country, where a lot of things should be done, and I also mention the information that you, along with the Ministry of Finance, have provided to me in response to the question. Over the past three years, unpaid social security contributions have been rising rapidly. In 2011, there were 50 million unpaid social security contributions; in 2012, there were 100 million per round, 108 million, and now 240 million Euros of unpaid contributions. And I'm wondering where these bodies are to check out why the contributions haven't been paid. Let's say bob beans once and tell people and ourselves: "Look, out of these 240 million unpaid contributions will never be paid, I don't know, half because they are inexhaustible and we write them off. But we will recover everyone else, not tomorrow, but today." We're going to have a slightly better situation here, even a real estate tax we wouldn't have to do that. I would like to draw attention to something else because it has been highlighted many times and the Government has praised it for not introducing new taxes and contributions. See, the bill you tabled for consideration reads: "The bill will have an impact on other public funds, as it increases contributions to the ZZS cash register, due to the contribution to the case of injury at work and occupational diseases and to the Zpiz cash register." You wrote it yourself to increase the burden. So here we should be quite careful with statements such as 'we will not introduce new taxes and contributions' because with every new regulation coming to the State Committee, we see something new being introduced through the side door. The red tape produced by the introduction of these valuations would be quite large. In this process, the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Public Payments, the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of the Interior and Apes will cooperate in order to apply. All of them will spend 200 000 euros to bring the system back to life. It is said that the system will cost something in the beginning. Let's just say that this is a fixed cost to not increase further, but it will cost 200 million euros, pardon, 200 thousand euros, and on the other hand the expected impact on the assumption that you have mentioned here is 320 thousand euros, not millions, not thousands of euros of new income in pension and health bills. That's what it says here. This is said to be the ratio between the costs of introducing this system on the one hand and somehow the benefits and effects are very severe. The biggest problem I have with these values, however, could in fact concentrate on two main points, namely that we do not pay the service with a valuer, because it does not matter how many hours a person will work on a value, not how much he will earn, but simply buy paper. We're buying paper for nine euros. This paper will allow someone to work for an hour or work for ten hours. The contribution will be the same. This value will stand in both cases for €9. I don't think that's right, I don't think that's fair. And here is the introduction of an unreasonable distinction between why the value of the work or the number of hours is not actually linked to the value of the contribution. And when you say that, in fact, there is a right here, such as the right to a pension or health insurance, I would like to remind you, the director sitting next to us certainly knows that our pension system is based on the fact that, if I put it simplisticly, the pension base and the unpaid contributions are taken into account. Remember, our idea a while ago was that they must have a significant impact on the amount of pension contributions paid, that the pension depends on the contributions paid. But I believe that people don't know that today. Our pension is not dependent on paid contributions, but depends on the basis on which contributions are charged. What about the valedictorians? What's the base? She's not here. Therefore, in this part too, the valuation is a significant deviation from the pension and disability insurance scheme. And also because of what has already been pointed out by the Legal and Legislative Service, such a system is inappropriate. We have too many options in Slovenia, on all grounds, and indeed, you have provided me with information on which foundations we can work in Slovenia and how these bases are "contributed" or taxed. I don't have it with me today, and it's a shame I don't have it because we'd be terrified to see this package. That package. As a matter of fact, no one knows on what basis he can work anymore. Someone who hires someone to do some work under the copyright contract needs to know if this person is already a taxpayer, not a taxpayer, is a contributor, not a contributor. One million and one bureaucratic obstacle. We don't need a new one. We need what we have to compress and distribute into some compartments that are comparable. And I agree, let's go in the direction of each work counts. But not in the direction of every job is taxed and every job is "contributed", but every job counts. This means that we are eventually included in our pension base or in our pension. And of course why not with health insurance. Far from making this system of valuations very simple. I've already told you in the beginning who's going to be involved here, who's going to check it out. Also, the application system is not so simple or leaves many open questions. What bothers me even more is that in some way, the ministry is trying, at least not to expose it, to somehow make this system cheaper than it really is. If all the people who are calling today, as you say, the minister, and are eager to wait for the values, know that they will have to pay their tax bills, that the tax controls will have to take any more steps here, then the enthusiasm might be a little less. Of course they'll have to broadcast, of course they'll have to broadcast. They're gonna have to broadcast for six months. Well, they're not going to be on 3 or anything, but they're going to have to broadcast and they're going to have to pay the tax. Of course they will have to pay the tax, excuse me, well, please, this is income from another contractual relationship that is taxed according to income. Read your income law. You don't think this country is letting any income pass taxes, do you? So, of course, they will also have to pay taxes and not just contributions. There are many reasons why values are not a suitable system to introduce them at this time. I think we can find better solutions and better solutions must go in the direction of reducing the number of forms on which we can work today, not increase them, and make them more comparable. And when you come to the National Assembly with such solutions, I will gladly support them. As long as you come to the National Assembly with ever-new and new burdens and ideas and concepts, in terms of what we will offer to our people, you are further complicating the system, not on my part, and I believe that we cannot provide this support by my colleagues of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The secretary wanted the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u102	We don't increase the possible forms of work with this. A personal supplemental job is already in progress. So we don't increase this law's possible forms of work. This law does not impose new taxes. Maybe taxes because the contribution is not a tax. [[adverts from benches]] I'm talking about what you said before. It is important to tell people that we do not introduce taxes, introduce a flat-rate contribution which will thus bear certain rights and that is not a tax. Why did you stop? With this solution, you're telling us that we've overloaded the whole thing administratively. And that's where he hung up. If Aisha works early in the month when I pay nine euros for her, I may not know how many times this lady will come to me and how many times. We could have done that every time she came, we had to pay a certain flat rate, given the value that we would pay her. That's what you tell the valuer that it's not and that it's just paper because it's not related to quantity. If we put this system in place, then it wouldn't have stopped, and I assure you, it would have been so complicated that the question is, if anyone could have done it in the first place. And because we're aware of that, we're heading in the direction of a flat. And we know that when you introduce a lump sum, it was natural to pause to simplify something, to make an estimate, and to give a mean value — we made this calculation on the basis of one day of retirement. If the minimum wage were to be EUR 7 per month, if the individual worked one day per month, that is why we calculated the pension allowance. True, it has always been, because it is a simplification, we can talk about what would be fairer or not, but I do not ask then to say that this is administratively burdensome and that you would rather have a different solution, which would be more just, but which would be much more administratively burdensome. About the costs. Yes, once you put in place a one-time system and it is true that 200 000 euro is written in the material and we made a very conservative assessment, namely, we said that some 3,000 such cases would be personal extra work for which we would pay and the annual income would be 320 000 euros. This is at the annual level, i.e. the first year, if we take the most conservative assessment possible, the income would be higher than the cost of setting up. Indeed, personal supplementary work must be reported to Dursa for three months now, because it is considered to be income on the basis of which, according to all other incomes, of course, they receive a decision on income measurement. We made only one change here, that's to allow people to report once every six months and not every three months. So in this direction too, we wanted to simplify things. It's about legal work. In its opinion, the Legal Service said that this solution was a systemic derogation, but never said that it was inappropriate because it would be an interesting value judgment if the Legal Service gave an assessment of the appropriateness and inappropriateness in terms of regulation, regulation and compliance with legal matter. Since we're being very specific. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The replica has Mrs. Romana Tomc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u104	I'd still replicate. I know very well what taxes are and what taxes are and what contributions are. I hope we don't get further involved here. But when you talk about these simplifications, my aim was to tell you that on all the many grounds that exist today, it would be wiser to take a step in the direction of reducing these bases, making them comparable. If anything should have to be done, dear Minister, why not just change the way in which the tax settlement is made? From three months you extend to six and the matter is solved if that's the problem. Why introduce something new? And tell me what a business contract we also know is for example. And why doesn't anyone want to use it? Only because it's too expensive. Because he's proposing. It's extremely simple. It could have been written in a few articles, everyone would have had it on them, but this country has taxed the company contract so strongly that everyone is avoiding it. The solution is clear. The solution is clear. We are reducing taxes on the business contract and we do not need any new form. Anyone can also have a business contract and on the basis of a business contract. It's copyrighted for other purposes, and I don't even know why we have so many different ones. But the business contract is a great foundation. Great. We don't need anything else. This also gives rise to contributions and taxes. So, if we're getting along, I hope we're moving forward, I'm just talking about taking advantage of what we have and simplifying what we have and not introducing something new.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The following will be discussed: Mag. Ivan Vogrin, Mrs Jenko, Mr Frangež and Mr Lisec. Then I'll open another round of applications. Mag. Vogrin, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Madam President. In fact, my colleagues and colleagues said very analytically why this law should not be adopted in such a form. Mrs Romana Tomc, Mr Marko Pavlisič and the other discussers, are very analytical. I'd like to draw your attention to another matter. Are we even doing the right thing? We have 130 thousand unemployed, of which in Podravje every day in Austria goes to black work of 10,000 people. Why? Because in Slovenia work is too taxed because there are no jobs. Shouldn't we start doing this? Now, with this housewife, who will go and watch the baby, we are going to be doing some colloquial work again, and Mrs Romana Tomc has said exactly that the business contract makes everything possible, but because it is too taxed, no one is using it. Who wrote this law is the question. There will be no answer. Did the employers take part in the drafting of the law? No, no, no. Employees? No, no, no. Administration. And of these people, not one person has been a half-year-old employer to have himself or any employee and not even know the nature of the problem. And that's all our legislation. We write laws, laws are written by those who do not know the nature of the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mag. Jana Jenka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u108	Thank you so much for saying that. All of them have a nice say-so again! Work on the black is a very big problem in Slovenia. That is also true of the European Commission, which is 24. 3. published a Eurobarometer survey on black work in European Union countries. The report shows that black work in some countries, such as Latvia, has decreased since 2007, in Slovenia, Greece, Cyprus and Malta. This research or publication of this data already tells us that what we are saying all the time is working in black in Slovenia is absolutely too much. A lot of those who are now working in black could be employed. This would reduce unemployment. Many of those who work in black work hard enough to be fully employed for eight hours. Among the measures recommended and already proven successful by the European Commission are tax incentives, vouchers for services, according to our values or vouchers, measures to promote tax morality and measures to facilitate detection and tighter sanctions. All of our proposed law contains. Mr Sedovnik from the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, I have listened to an interview on the radio somewhere, supports the introduction of vouchers or valuations. It points out, however, that we should not list or include activities that are classical craftsmanship. This will not happen because other forms of work have taken place in order to carry out these activities. At the same time, I ask the opposition and part of the coalition whether they are willing to instill a black and grey economy. We're always full of it. Almost every position in other laws in the fields of social, agricultural, economic. Everyone emphasises the intrusion of work into black and gray economies, but when there is a concrete solution, they are kind of against it. I will not understand this ambiguity in my life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The replica has Mrs. Romana Tomc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u110	I don't know if that's a replica or if that's the answer. Of course we're willing to do a lot of things here. But our proposals for a solution go in a very different direction from yours. Yours are going in the direction that extra taxation is good for the budget, and it will probably be good for people, and our proposals are going in the direction of reducing taxes and reducing burdens. For if taxes and contributions were lower, if the tax on the rental contract were lower, then the business contract would be more interesting for people and perhaps someone would choose to apply it. If you have been very careful when you read this analysis because I did it, then there on each page it tells you that the most important thing to eliminate the grey economy – perhaps another word they use – is an appropriate stimulating tax environment. Which means "no" to high taxes. Reduce taxes, introduce more flat-rate taxes, and people will pay more taxes, so they will not avoid them. The grey economy arises because people want to avoid burdens, taxes, contributions. And if they felt that these taxes were moderate, that these taxes were the ones they could still bear, their willingness to work legally would probably be much higher. So our solution to the grey economy is: reduce taxes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The next panellist is Mr Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u112	And the Slovenian Democratic Party cannot be recognised as not consistent in this regard. Last but not least, between 2004 and 2008, she worked very hard to achieve this policy, a few of which were substantially reduced, while also creating new tasks. And this has led on the one hand, I will say, to a significant fall in budgetary flows and, on the other hand, to an increase in budgetary expenditure. Exactly this policy led Slovenia to a situation in 2008 and 2009 when budgetary imbalances radically collapsed. And that's what you need to learn. I agree with the fundamental ambition. I'd like to pay lower taxes in this country, too. So am I, and I am much more left in the socialist orientation than Mrs Tomc. I want to pay lower taxes, too. But on the other hand, I understand that social tissue is important, that solidarity in this society is important and that public mechanisms need to take care of various tasks. From a culture that is very difficult to survive on the market to a social state and to provide the most effective support to those who are changing the social situation, whether they themselves can not adequately take care of themselves, to strengthen some public infrastructure, to strengthen economic development on the basis of this public infrastructure, to have free education, a strong research and innovative backbone of society and so on. And it all costs money in this society. I actually don't understand this problem and this debate all the time. On the committee, I am already in coalition coordination, I admit, I have been admiringly following some of the views which only make me think that obviously there is nothing to be done in this country. No step forward. We all agree that the country's grey economy is a serious problem. Analysis shows that the grey economy in Slovenia is between 18% and 27% of our gross domestic product. So that we don't talk about percentages, let's translate it into real numbers. If we take the lower value and round to 20% of GDP, that means that in this country, outside the official formal framework, we create 6.8 billion euros of social wealth. If we assume that we pay only 20% of the taxes on this created property, we would find that this is a budget source of EUR 1.36 billion. Or if I translate into existing budgetary aggregates, this is the same amount that the Republic of Slovenia devotes this year from the budget to the funding of all the missing funds in the pension system. Are we aware of what 1.36 billion euro means? Are we aware that this is 7 property taxes? And I think it is the right direction for the Government to want, in various ways, to make available, on the one hand, by sharpening criminal policy on the other hand, and also by making it possible, with the necessary root, to provide the most accessible, legal forms. I admit to you that by the summer of last year, I had no further knowledge of the Institute of Personal Supplementary Work. My wife and I were looking for protection for our child. After we found a person who was willing to register a personal supplemental job, we took care of this person for several months to protect our child. At the end of the month, the lady issued the bill, and I was willing, because she did it in a legal way, to pay a slightly higher grade, and the thing was super flowing. However, I must admit that not before and even less after the new system, this matter was not administratively complicated at all. Well, the problem is that positive legislation, which we create on the one hand, creates problems on the other. And one day the lady found that, despite the fact that she did not receive any transfer, no social assistance and no pension, she lost the status of a dependent family member, and when she was able to draw the line at the end of the month, what, in fact, the net amount of earnings on the protection of my child meant to her, she found that she was practically working for a minimum income and found that it was simply not worth it anymore. And I have a problem right now because I can't find a legal way to protect my son. I can't find a legal way to protect my son. And that no one understands it as self-declaration, my wife works at home, and so far we don't necessarily need any other protection. I stress that the system of valuations is an important step forward. I am not saying that it is an ideal final situation, but that it is an important step forward compared to what we know in the legislation today, and I say that the problem of the grey economy and working in black is largely related to the fact that the country does not develop accessible legal forms of doing such works by also ensuring minimum security for those who carry out such work. And you're talking about administrative burdens. I want more people involved in this system. In this regard, I wish that the choice of performers will be greater, and, please, what a fine effort it will be to go once a month to the website, to complete the value book and to pay it online. No administrative effort. If all things were so simple in this country, then this country today would be essential to the front. This is what this is about, and I would like a little more goodwill here in taking measures that are extremely positive. Remarkable positive. In short, the state must provide more legal options for managing such works through a simple process, and let me say that Minister Anja Kopač Dark had another idea when she began to think about this work, which was more and less complicated than we are introducing today. And it was one idea to buy such a valuable in a kiosk. But we understand that changes in this country are happening in a slow way because solutions need to be aligned with a number of other institutions – the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration, I don't know who else, and that the system that we have today on our bench is one possible seizure at a given time. That's why I'm going to be absolutely supportive of this value. I am convinced that this means, above all, one welcome way that thousands and thousands of people in this country who are doing work in an illegal way will be able to manage some complementary activity, legalise and, on the other hand, I also agree with those, I think that Mr Dragan Bosic has said that this will also make him feel one sense, in the sense of okay, I am safe from the system, doing things in a legal and corrective way. In addition to the fact that this will be small in terms of enhanced social security due to the contribution paid to pension and health insurance. Maybe another thought in the company or in the business contract. "Let's reduce the tax burden of the business contract," you speak as an alternative. Firstly, the undertaking contract is in itself an administrativeally significantly higher burden than the valuation system. It is necessary to write a contract, let's say you get a type contract in some bookstore, but with this same deal, you still have to go to the Tax Administration, on that basis, to measure and pay taxes and so on and so forth. I'm sorry, the system is much more complicated. And you say, on the other hand, "Yes, you can afford a deal." If, however, we were to severely underestimate the tax burden of the business contract, excuse us, what do we do about it? We further open up opportunities for developing abusive forms of work and employment in our country. Yeah, sure. Sorry, it's not a year ago when your government bragged about how well-charged self-employment funds are. It's okay, we've given a lot of irreparable incentives for self-employment, but at the end of the day we have to find that most of these funds have been spent putting people in an extremely flexible and unjust position. And this is employment through espies, where they do jobs that they used to do in the workplace for full-time and through a classic contract of employment. And only solutions that have been stubbornly pushed by Andrej Črnak Meglič can be thanked for the fact that we now have a regulated Institute of Economically Dependents in law to ensure that these persons have the position of regular employees if they are performing work as especi for one employer through contracts. I believe that the restriction on the prohibition of the use of personal complementary work in legal persons is also important. Also because we would have been in a position to actually replace more regular forms of employment with such work. And I therefore think that the proposal is very sober, very thoughtful, that it is the fruit of certain compromises, including the administrative compromises that have been made during the coordination phase, and that it represents the kind that is proposed, and the kind of compromise that we today have Members and Members to vote on, one important contribution to regulating things in the country. And by the way, Madam Minister, the means to promote this are not planned. But as far as I know, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has planned funds for the action Turn your mind on, take your account. If you ask me if we will spend part of this campaign this year to promote personal complementary work, I guarantee you that one euro invested in the promotion of Personal Supplemental Part 2.0 will be reimbursed twice. I will absolutely support the values or vote against the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Now she has a replica of Mrs. Romana Tomc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Once again, it won't go wrong. I do not support any abuse of the Labour and Employment Process Act or the employer-employee relationship. The Labour Relations Act, and you probably know this very well, in Article 4, very clearly defines what a work relationship is and if it is a work relationship, if this relationship has elements of a work relationship between the employer and the worker, then on no other basis can it work as a work contract. This is what the Labour Relations Act says should be taken into account. Of course, everything is not a full-time working relationship or a short-term one, anyhow, under the Labour Relations Act, so there are other forms. And once again, if the contract is too complicated or too expensive, let's unload it. That doesn't mean we opened the door for someone to take advantage of things. This has to be pursued. There's something else about self-employment. Personally, I have always been very critical of this action of active employment policy, which devotes money to people who are unemployed to open up their espas, they have some money to start with, and after one year they no longer know what to do. That was a very cheap money-throwing page for me. But I'm there, I don't say, and some espa has evolved into something more. But mostly not. And what you consider to be a great success – indeed, your colleague, I remember this meeting, was very persistent and then there was some compromise that economically dependent persons would enter into the Labour Relations Act, which was adopted under Minister Visiak. I don't think that was the best solution. I don't think that was the best solution. That's what caused someone to get into some kind of trouble again. Employers force employees to open their essays, hire them through espions, and work only for them. And what does that make them, my esteemed colleague? They become economically dependent persons because the contracting entity is one and the only one and, in fact, they are equal to the employees in the rights to a certain extent. So why were we so complicated? Why didn't we just say, "Look, he's got to hire him."? Pika. Why did we force first to open espies to negotiate through some contracts and so on? However, to end this, I find the debate interesting because it seems to me that we have come up with a really substantive debate to explain why someone is advocating a solution or another. But I think that this solution with economically dependent people in the U.S. has not been the most successful and is being improved right now, or at least thinking about getting better.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Fox, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u116	Thank you. Minister, co-workers, vice president, colleagues, colleagues! Fortunately for Mr Frangež, she continued Roman Tomc because otherwise I would have had little sense that I was in the wrong time or perhaps in the wrong place. What I think of the valuer, I'll say with this sentence: "Three hours of walking on a deserted Sunday lies with you and they call it a city. The name is yours, Butale. The fools are bastards; that year, when two cows were for one pair, the Butlers got in a fight with their brains and the Butlers won – what do you think! - and not smart: that's what they are." And the introduction of the values into the Slovenian legal order reminds me of the Butales. I could continue what happens if we introduce such matters as valuations, carriers. Do you remember? A new moment again, something new, something good. Figo. What's going on? This is what happens in the Butalas. "And in the course of the years, the Butalas became too narrow for all Buttocks and the younger generation was lovable and went to look around the world and some of them..."
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u117	Mr. Fox, let's stick to the point and not be insulting, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u118	"...dwelled by Drava, some near Mura, some of them even reached the sea and set fires there. But the rest are what they were." I would like to say, Madam Vice-President, that with such measures as values, we also make the Slovenian nation the Butals and all the smarts are thinking about what else to do in these Butalas. I must say that thank God there is still this liberal mindset in the National Gazette, which was probably also an initiative to set up a party. Mr Pavlišič, I think that in the 10th indents or points he has said well what he thinks, and I must say that I absolutely support him and I really hope that they will do so in the vote. Perhaps to begin with, I would like to repeat the question of colleague Ivan Vogrin. Who even remembered this valedictorian? If an official, a respected minister, remembers that there are rooms in all the ministries to think about, for a certain frame of reference, I suggest you send him to this thinking room. However, if this has been done by some politicians, I really wonder what the next step these values are and what a good measure these values are. See Article 15, what you have written about the values, and see the transitional and final provisions. You did some work for natural persons because you wanted to plague the grey economy, do some work in black, do it completely bureaucraticly. Another bureaucratic nonsense of this government. And if we spoke earlier in the preceding articles about what neighborly help and related help is — another nonsense. Look at why I have problems supporting those amendments, and we're all proposing them, all the parliamentary groups. Look what we wrote about the neighbor's help. "Neighbouring assistance shall be considered to be the performance of work between neighbours of individuals where there is a certain proximity to them in terms of residence." Where there is a certain proximity between them in terms of residence. What's that? Border? Is one street away or is one house away? Dearly beloved, in practice such nonsense then comes to absurdity and no marriage theory supports what is happening in practice. I think it's even incriminating if one of the inspectors reports that it's not neighborhood aid. Tell us how two lawyers will deal with what a certain proximity is in terms of residence. I hope I get an answer. In short, there are some good sequels to this law, but because of these values I have a growing sense that it is a pear law where small people will be hunted — natural persons, not to be confused — in short, citizens and citizens, where in addition to what the current legislation allows them – short work, small work, short-term work and everything else, something new, that there will be more bureaucracy, and in the end we will not even know who pays, who drinks and so on. In particular, this value is meaningless, unreasonable at the time we live. At a time when this government is talking about how much more employment will increase through the national programme, when the social picture of Slovenia is on the dog, we are going to go red tape, and we want to prevent the grey economy of employment or work in black. Figo! A colleague of Romana said nicely what the measures are in the countries that are going to – although Mr Frangež is not here – some such corrupt liberal policy, and that liberally is probably just the letter L from the liberal. Small taxes, respectable minister, colleagues and colleagues. Small taxes, tax relief, less red tape. It's the wives of men to work, the wives of employers to open businesses. And with such measures, no longer will there be much more employment, and fortunately, legal persons will not be concerned with this value, and others will wonder whether it is worth turning their minds on and going for a fortune teller or working as it is now. I don't think it's gonna be any different. Otherwise, with respect and respect, I propose that you experience this first value in those coalition groups where you will support this law in such a form, i.e. without the amendments of the SDS, and you will also do at home what you are fighting for, so that we will not read about certain Members of Parliament how they prevent work in black and at home do exactly the opposite. And I'm gonna do it again. There are words, there are actions. Respected and respected, lower taxes and burdens, and life will be easier. Living with a valedictorian will not be easier for either the employer or the natural person or the one who will do the work. In short, it seems to me that this is really one nonsense like the ones that can really be done in the end, and I will also conclude with that, we ask who will work in this Slovenia at all, if when you even think about work, you get a couple of sheets of paper first, what you have to do to do everything you have to do to do. Really. Your aim is to increase the number of employees in Slovenia. With such measures you do Slovenian people, those who want to work bear a favor. And because of the valuations, the grey economy will not fall by one percent. Not for one percent. If I make a mistake and the data will be different at year osorium, I'm willing to make a public apology, but believe me, we can make a top theory, practice will put systems like values into a lie. In short, I will support our amendments and call on all those who are at least thinking a little about how to create added value for Slovenian workers to support the SDS amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u119	Thank you very much. First, the Minister signed up. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Mr. Fox, I'm glad we're doing something so good in Butala that you agree because you said that marriage even has something good. So it seems that there may be something else in the Butalas that you who observe the Butalas from the outside may even agree with. But I will not continue with the offensive tone that you have begun, and I will only be publicly, because this is being recorded, to say that I have repeatedly objected to the appeal of employees in public administration, in this case the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. You have no right to judge matters of which you do not know and to insult employees. You probably don't feel right, too, when everyone insults the MPs of the National Assembly, so if we want to raise the level of debate and people are watching us on TV, then I suggest that we don't insult everyone in this country in general if someone doesn't like something. And the political responsibility for the law is always taken over by the minister and I stand here and defend him and there is nothing for the officials of the Ministry of Labour. And I hope that there will never be a repeat of the story that people who write laws that don't answer to anyone when there is a change of power are replaced by officials who have nothing to do with political decisions, because otherwise it will be very difficult to move anything forward in this country if every official is afraid of who will replace it or not. Now I'm gonna calm down, and I'm gonna try and explain things. The neighbor's work remains unchanged. The law that the SDS has tabled, despite the agreement of the social partners, under the previous legislation, a referendum initiative. It's the same definition and you don't like this definition either. In the Butalas, we really don't know where to go or which way to like it. And even inspection services, you know, they don't have how the neighborhood work is defined, exactly any problems, but we in Butalas are trying to be the smartest and we're going to write down a definition that the minister has just remembered that he might be the most responsible to everyone outside Butal. We're hunting people. I have said several times that we are therefore introducing values to not only sanction people; that we are not just going to talk about how we will strengthen inspection services and how we are going to raise the fine. Why a personal supplemental job? Because it is carried out by natural persons, the services they perform are tied to our homes, where we know that there is a lot of work to be done in black. And because we know that the people who are doing this work do not want to report personal complementary work, we wanted to give them an incentive in the form of a valor. In the end, these people may say that, as you say, it is only a worthless piece of paper, but perhaps a woman who has been doing this work for many years will still receive a day or a month of retirement, and will not take it as something totally lame. But you think we're in Butalas, and it looks like in Butala we're making contributions to pension and disability insurance and it's just unnecessary, which is what it introduces. That's all we know about. We don't already know about the extra work, we don't burden it administratively. A supplement for everything – because there is now only that the person who orders work, before that only once a month via e-government or, if it is not online, on the administrative unit pays EUR 9 per month. No, you told me before not to do it after days. What would happen then? We could do this every day. Then you take me out of this hall and I don't know where in Butal 3. No, we'll introduce the flat-rate, and it's administratively burdensome. And the fact that people who are working and only limited services, let me say again – the business contract in this country just needs to be concluded in writing, you need to have some knowledge about concluding it, you could simplify it, but that does not mean that we should not pay contributions in the current system through the REK forms. Now, if you think it's easier for me to hire an instructor who I don't know how many times a month she'll come to me, or a cleaner and then every time she gives me an account, I'll go to Durs and pay for all the contributions, okay? I in Butala think it is easier to pay the contribution of €9 once a month. But we're not going to get to the place, it doesn't make sense, it's all getting like we're talking to each other. Above all, this – with Mrs Romano Tomc, I am always happy to debate. We may disagree, and in this National Assembly, there is a place where we can give ourselves arguments, okay, but resentment over who's where, but I don't know if there's a place. And I took – I can be wrong – your performance as offensive. Not even personally. Above all, everything they do at the Ministry because you won't believe it – people work.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Since I've seen the desire to discuss it again, I'm just gonna open up an opportunity to apply. Please sign up. The application is in progress. We have three other panellists reported. Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič was first reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I wanted to take the floor a few times, but apparently I wasn't visible enough. That's what I'm going to say at the beginning -- yes, I agree with my colleague Tomc. The fact is that we have our views here, despite the fact that we are exchanging arguments, it is unlikely that this will contribute significantly to the change of opinion. Yes, some of us are convinced that the way in which temporary and occasional work is regulated is a good solution in this law. Why do we think it's a good solution? Because, on one side, it's the right relationship between the root and the stick, as we call it. When the penalties for a violation are simplified, with other solutions in other laws, we are also giving something, for only by giving something will we be able to encourage people to stop staying away from applying or doing black work. Occasional and temporary work is a specific work. This is a job where the name just says we don't need it all the time, we don't need it in a huge amount of hours, but it's a job that's replaced for help at home, exactly for certain forms of work, and it's also replaced by the amount of money that can actually be used for these purposes. And the fact is that this activity exists today and this activity exists today to a large extent as a form of black work. You know, I admitted it. I can't force a lady who is so socially threatened who doesn't have more than eight hours of work a month to apply for this job. All I can do is say, "Thank you so much, I won't talk to you anymore." In the debate, I made it clear that I want to make a contribution to it. I want to. I said this in the debate, and I said that in a lot of cases, I believe that the objection to this is also essentially a misdirection, because we're covering ourselves with a carpet and we say, "No, no, I don't have a black job," but we wouldn't pay the values. That's why I went consciously into admitting, and once again, I'm going to benefit from this work and pay for it, because I'm sure we'll also support it by today's debate or vote. Why do I think this solution is good on the other side? Because it actually appreciates the simplicity of the procedure on the one hand and in fact brings some reward for doing it, on the other hand. That's what you say, going in the direction of each work counts. I could listen to your argument that it is not good that only one value per month and so on, if more work is done, but then I tell you, in the manner between Scylla and the Caribbean, between the administrative burden and the principle of each work count, say a better formula. On our own, to simplify things and just do contracts of work, I don't agree, because in this case, I guarantee you, there won't be any less work on the black. There's something else I'd like to say. The solution contained in our law itself is established in other countries as well, and you will be able to see with interest that the statistics for the country that has done so to a large extent, Belgium, show that the work has fallen in black. That's not true. We can't think of it. But it is true that in Slovenia, which has great manners working in black, it will be harder to move. But if we all try to do this, if we all step in this direction, I think we can do a lot. And there's one more thing. When we act in a relationship, we are the ones who benefit from this work in the role of employer. It is therefore right that we also contribute something through the valuation and settle it. And on the other hand, as has already been said, it will be an incentive for people to legalize forms and have some of them. It's right that they have something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u123	Thank you very much. But first, before I give the floor to Mrs Sonja Ramšak, I am obliged to explain. By the time I took over the meeting today, the list of self-declared debaters had already been drawn up. And when we came through, I opened a new debate where you could have applied. Thank you very much. Now I give the floor to Mrs Sonja Ramšak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with your co-worker. I would first refer to that part of the debate when the Minister also spoke about it, or essentially referred to Members Romani Tomc, who stated that you are introducing new taxes, that the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly had already pointed out to the competent committee that it had not actually supported this novel. Indeed, in its written opinion, the Law-Legal Service has warned, as the Minister has said, that the system of personal supplementary work has changed and, of course, the rights and duties resulting from the Pension and Disability Insurance Act 2 and, of course, also in accordance with the Health and Health Insurance Act. The legal and legal service has pointed out that in order to derogate from the system regime due to the principle of equality before the law there must be real and reasonable reasons for the nature of the matter. And now these values actually break these two systems because they're not all the same before the law. Under the same conditions, they will not exercise the rights laid down in these two laws and this has probably been meant in previous discussions. I would say, however, that it is true that we are absolutely in the Slovenian Democratic Party to pursue the black economy. But the black economy is starting to haunt the family. It's starting to raise the youngest and so on. However, we must admit that, in fact, work in black was supported at the expense of social peace for years and years. And that the law enforcement authorities, as well as the supervisory authorities, from inspections, police, prosecutors and others, have not been successful in persecuting the black economy. And today we are facing some partial solutions that actually only administratively bring some good things, but they do not solve the essential problem in the global world, that is, 130 000 unemployed people and the opening up of new jobs, either within businesses or independent entrepreneurs and so on. And why don't we go in this legislation to change those conditions, as Mr Frangež said, to find out that because his nanny finally found that she was working practically "gluh for the rats", she simply quit as a sole entrepreneur. These are the things that could be changed systematically. Taxes are actually impossible, and those who work as independent entrepreneurs have so many and so many obstacles, and at the end when they are recalculated find that there is virtually nothing left for them. However, with regard to this active employment and unemployment reduction policy, the unemployed would have to decide to open up espies or become independent entrepreneurs to one thing. With the amendment of legislation, namely the Company Act, we have made the conditions extremely strict. And why doesn't a lot of people who are today at the Employment Service as an unemployed person decide to register as an independent entrepreneur? It is even going through this process of active employment policy, because the process does not recognise this provision, which was added to Article 10a of the Economic Companies Act, which is that it cannot become an independent entrepreneur or open an undertaking to a person who has been legally sentenced to prison for a criminal offence against the economy, against a labour relationship and social security, and we have added that, in accordance with the legal provisions of that restriction, five years from the legal judgment or until the date of the deletion from the criminal record. And what did we do here? Someone who had lost his job, who had no income and was unable to settle his obligations, may have had some unsettled issues on the shelf and could not settle those obligations to some economic society. What's going on? The economic company initiates proceedings under the Penal Code, the court sentences him to prison because, of course, social transfers of these cases cannot be settled, and we have practically aligned the tycoons with those who have lost their jobs and cannot settle their obligations. There is no proportional effect. And because of this, a number of people who are currently registered at the Employment Institute and who are recipients of social transfers cannot solve their situation in this way, although they can have a good programme, a good project, but they cannot do so. Ladies and gentlemen, when we begin to talk on a systemic level, to remove administrative obstacles and allow people to take care of their own security, for their future, then we can say that we are a social state. I do not support social states in the way that people actually live at the expense of social transfers. I support a social state that allows someone who has lost his job or, because of other circumstances, has not been able to get a job so that they can save their social status in this way and see the future. And above all, there is the problem of the young and the elderly. And in this way, as we speak today, of course, we will not solve this. And I am in favour of the fact that those who retire can continue to do certain things, but I think we have other forms enough and that these values are in fact just some silent support and also work in black. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Pavlišič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. Let me first answer the question whether we're in favour of getting stuck working in the dark, or not. We're absolutely up for it. There's no doubt here. We're absolutely in favour of making the most of the black work. But in order to achieve this, inspectors have to go work on the ground, not to take solutions that will allow inspectors to work in chairs, which is the solution. They have to get started, and then we'll do something about it. Let's be clear about one more thing here. Never, virtually ever, does the citizen list support or admire the fact that we are increasing various fines. We're never excited about it. I would like to mention here another matter mentioned by my colleague Kristina. If we're talking about black work and restricting it, yes, let's look at some other industries that are significantly more important in this, this is health care and lawyering. There's something you need to do. Are we introducing a sheepfold or something to do that? We're not in. Let us also give in these areas what to do. Speaking of these sheepmen, various forms of work were mentioned and mentioned was an example of a museum that receives one bus each week and then hires a guide for those two hours, a retired one who does it more out of joy than for getting paid. And if this goes through the museum, there's no way to solve it through personal supplemental work, because it's a legal person. However, if this is practically the same thing, this bus of visitors takes note of this guide to follow the ditches over Kobarid and so on, and there can be a personal complementary work. But who in both cases is receiving this service, and who is the one for whom this is being done? That bus of participants. What's the difference in both cases? In both cases, the guide works for those people, for natural persons. In one case, there may not even be a museum in the other, but if it's one bus of visitors, you know that this means one bus of the vouchers, given the way you imagined it. We're really making a big mess here. That we will not only have a controversial debate on this, but I have another question, which, unfortunately, I could not answer on my own, and I could answer the gentleman from the Ministry. It was mentioned that the health intervention law also introduced 6.35% of the health insurance contribution. I have to admit, I checked it 14 days ago on Durs' website, and it really did. I checked again yesterday, and it doesn't say that anymore. In the meantime, someone has corrected this and this new law has already been mentioned, which has not yet been passed, which we are discussing today. However, if we have adopted this 6.35% health contribution at the time also for personal supplementary work, I would like to know in which article in this bill we are now terminating this or whether this remains. I went straight through the law earlier, and I didn't find where we were cutting this off. So I would really ask here for a clear answer, in which article we are now putting an end to this. It has also been mentioned several times that it is not possible to carry out this personal complementary work legally now. Of course it's possible. Personal supplementary work is already in the current law. So there is absolutely no change as to whether this is legal or not. You're saying it'll be easier now. I personally do not think that it will be much easier, because for the contractor himself we switch from 3 months to 6 months of reporting and additionally introduce administrative effort on the client's side. It is said that a slight decrease in this administrative effort on the part of the contractor, but we are introducing a completely new administrative burden on the contracting authority. And as for the shepherds and those who are just waiting to be able to do it and use it. Look, I've been talking to this gentleman, too, and we've had a little bit of a renegade about the sheep, and when I explained to him that it's not about being a sheepdog like in the tourist arrangements where you get a chicken for, for example, 1 week somewhere in Rogaška Slatina or somewhere, and then you actually get it there and pay for it. When I explained to him that it wasn't this kind of way, he said that it was really pointless what we were introducing. Thus, opinions are also very different among people. They are not just those who look forward to these shepherds, and perhaps those who are eager to wait for them do not really realize what they will gain by doing so. And, speaking of which, since a similar solution, as I mentioned for tourist agencies and where the concept of the use of this sheep is already generally used, is also applied in another country. And there's an interesting situation here, because in these other countries where they've introduced these kind of sheepdogs, they're now putting an end to it. We introduce them and that's different. I agree that we all like things arranged, and I absolutely agree with that, but the sheepdogs are not the only and the best chance we have of having things arranged. We also have things arranged in such a way that we demand an account and it goes to action Turn your mind on, demand an account! In the store, you ask for an account, you get an account, and you are confident that you have done your civic duty. Now turn your mind on, take your account! We introduce the following concept: turn on your mind, buy a voucher, take your account. Look, we're making a mess in this area. If we want the matter to be effective, it has to be simple. As simple as possible. Let us keep these current systems in place and, where necessary, also reduce administrative burdens if necessary. In short, the person who orders a personal supplementary work realizes that he must receive an account, and then the person who has charged this service will continue to declare this income – which he will also have to do under this bill – and when he declares this income, he can pay such an income and can also pay the contributions. In fact, this has made this work easier. It's not like we're introducing some new value purchases and so on. I mentioned something at the very first reading of the law, and I'm going to mention it again here. It's a coalition deal. In the Civil Gazette, we take the coalition contract very seriously. And the coalition contract has one commitment within it not to impose new taxes and not raise taxes. And now, if we're going to hunt down words here, whether it's a tax contribution or not a tax contribution and so on, I'm just going to say that for every subsequent duty, let's put in a hart that's neither tax nor contribution. And when we write that down in the coalition, let's make up another six words if we have to. Go to the street and ask if the contribution is tax or not and if it's all one badass. You have to pay the state. Look here or the word is another word, sorry, that's just below the level. I am also very sorry that we have to act here in such a way that we have to exchange these views, that we have not been able to find common solutions in the transitional steps, better solutions, but we are here now and we have to vote on this matter. As I will vote on my own, I think it is clear enough from the debate itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The word was also wanted by a representative of the government. Here you go, Mr. Dejan Levanic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u128	Thank you so much for saying that. It seems very important to me when we are talking about some new solutions and new changes, that we are talking about them quite clearly, and even if we are not yet understanding where we are or if there is some dilemma or misunderstanding of the solution on the table, this is how we are and for a long time we are re-thinking that we will then really be clear to all of us what and how it will be in the future with these values. Because I can agree that it may not be the only one or, if it turns out in the future, the best example of how to solve personal complementary work is very simple. Very simple. It's simpler than the way it is. And it has one important element, the motivation to encourage people who are doing this in their homes today, and this is the fact that they will eventually register and have some of it. And this is not a violation of the coalition contract, because it's not a new tax, because when you pay your contribution, you get the right to do so. You pay the tax when you pay the tax to the state and you may not have a direct right, but you have other benefits, such as public health, public education and so on, but this is not a debate for today's session of the National Assembly. And here we're all going to have to ask ourselves in some debate in the future whether the country is really someone on a completely different side or whether it's someone who has to do it with public money, of course, in the most efficient way, and, of course, spend it on those things that people actually need. To answer some questions or dilemmas that have arisen. In the pension reform adopted, Article 18 clearly explains how the payment of contributions is accounted for. And if we look at the minimum part of the pension allowance or the recognition of a month's pension period, the individual should pay EUR 210 in order to have a month's pension, the minimum amount. From this comes this amount, which we have calculated and also explained to the Legislative and Legal Service, says 7 euros a day, plus 2 euros for the health care allowance for the moment when a person is doing work at home, to be insured, because today the health department from the personal supplemental work that exists, there will be nothing to do with this now the person who will perform personal supplementary work will be insured and at the same time will have one day of retirement. [[..]] And if you divide 210 by 7, by 30 days, then you get the result of how we got that amount. We have also published this to the Legislative and Legal Service, and because we regulate or regulate this personal supplementary work in this law, we have also partially convinced those who view things systematically. We, too, have to look at things systematically, but unless otherwise specified in the law, personal complementary work is a different element precisely because of control, precisely because of the form of work, precisely because of the limitations on monthly earnings and because of the type of works or works that are permitted. Therefore, it is important that we cannot allow any work as a personal complement, but only work from a specific list, that is, child protection, cleaning, grass baskets. We will also see in the debate on the rule of law what really belongs to as a personal complementary work. And yes, tourist workers have so far been able to serve some personal complementary work. This will be a debate in the future whether to leave it within the rules of procedure or not. However, there is no way to make the case – Mr Pavlišič, here is the problem if we are already talking about professional arguments, how to arrange personal complementary work in the future, not to manipulate actual data and not to intimidate people – that if someone takes someone on a personal supplemental work to take a trip to pay for the whole bus because then every bus participant paid for it. This is a complete misunderstanding of this arrangement, and if it has been so from the beginning that it is not understood, then we should really ask such questions. Because at the end of the day, I can say that one will sit on a bus that will invite 30 people to a party, and only he will pay him as a contracting officer for this 9-euro voucher. If we go into such details, then we won't take a step further, because then even in your arrangement, which you've told us about what a personal complementary job would look like in the future, we're going to bet that 90% of people didn't even know what you were going to say. Or imagine that you will convince 90 Members here in the Chamber that this is the best and most optimal solution for the future. There are problems because we want to motivate people on the ground to register and perform personal complementary work. The fact is that these works exist and the fact is that we do not want to put any financial burden on them or any additional burden on them to have the least of what they do. On the contrary. A very simple way of registering personal supplemental work on an administrative unit allows a customer who would order a cleaning service, help at home or protect children to easily collect a person on the Internet, pays EUR 9 and covers his share to the country. This also allows the person a day of retirement and for the moment of health insurance when the person is also doing the work. This step will allow many people, who may not be able to work today or who may be working four hours a day, to earn extra money and such a voucher or a valuer will be motivated to find out, together with the contracting authority, that this is good for both. That one is legally ordering a service and that the other has something to do with it. One day of retirement, two, three, four, five days, whatever. And that is the essence of the arrangements for personal supplemental work. One step forward may be in some new thought of regulating things in our country. However, I believe that any change is difficult and that we may be afraid of what it will do in the future. So all forms of work in us cause some problems. We are aware of this at the Ministry and, of course, we also accept your criticisms, views on what needs to be regulated in the future. Today is one of the solutions on the table. A good solution, simple, simple. Surely, in practice, there will be times when it will show that there is no other segment of us or that it is not well - arranged. But that's exactly why we have to change things to see what's happening to us in the field. And, of course, I am asking you to reconsider all those who are skeptical, and it is right that you are skeptical, because I believe that you, too, want the solutions to be good, to let go of the law, to go on and that the Institute of Personal Complementary Work becomes useful in life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Pavlišič, do you have a replica? [[adverts from benches]] So I'll open up the possibility of applying for a hearing. I'm opening a debate. We have two discussers. The first is Mr Marko Pavlišič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u130	Thank you for your word. Unfortunately, I did not get an answer to the question raised earlier. According to your words, we have introduced a 6.35% health insurance contribution for personal supplementary work by means of an intervention law, and now I do not find in this law an article that would have resolved it again. So I'd like to ask for a debate here. You'll just say it in the application. The second question concerns the already mentioned valuation bus, which is needed if the service is provided for several subscribers at the same time. And it doesn't have to be just a tourist bus coming in, another option is, say, an instruction. If, say, a single unemployed professor trains five students at the same time, does that mean five values? Does each contracting entity have to bring with it its own value book? In this case, then we can further raise this question around the bus. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Dr. Andrei Black Nebula, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u132	Thank you. Well, that's the question I want to answer. Article 28(4) states that until the application of these amendments which you have tabled or before the application of Articles 12 to 16 of this Law, a person is not necessarily insured for injury at work and occupational disease under Article 17 of the Health and Health Insurance Act. That says he's not insured. But if that goes down, of course, that's another story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to discuss it? We still have a desire to discuss it. I'm opening the way for a debate. I'm asking you to sign up. We've got two more debaters. The first is Darko Jazbec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u134	Thank you so much for saying that. Now that we've been listening to this for a good time, I don't know why anyone is disturbed by this evaluation. It's not disturbing. Just because it's not good doesn't mean someone has to use it. But you don't have to be against her. There's only the possibility of someone using it. Well, it will be used by those who want things to be arranged because it offers some security on the part of the one who works and offers confidence on the part of the one who offers the job. But I don't understand why it bothers you so much. At worst, he could still use any other form registered for work or work in black as he does now. This only gives an additional possibility that things will be better arranged. So I can't really see the disruptive factor here. You may not be satisfied with this system, but to be against it, I don't understand. As far as I'm concerned, there's a lot more health insurance stuff going on around here. This is actually, as has been said now, only for occupational injury insurance, but not for complete basic health insurance. Therefore, this is not comparable to what was in the intervention law. That's it. I didn't understand why it bothered you so much. It can still be the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Fox, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u136	Thank you very much. One more time about the valuations. The Secretary of State said earlier that this is probably not the only model you've been thinking about and that whenever we change things, the problem is whether or not they will be. But, Your Honor, I suggest you do something. So that I won't be disrespectful again, because I said earlier that when we introduce the values we become like the Butalas, I didn't insult any of them, and I really don't know why the Minister took it so badly. I believe that with this case of valuations, as with carriers, we are really becoming some kind of a mess, and the uniforms were also the Butales. In short, what I'm trying to say. With so many officials in the ministry and all that we know why you haven't sat within the ministry three times, within the coalition, and God forbid you ever ask the opposition for any opinion again, but you could really come up with as many systemic solutions as we all agree that this is a black job or a gray economy. In these values, however, all Slovenians and Slovenians are becoming some kind of test bunny. "Come on, try this, it's a valedictorian, if you want legal work." If it works, it'll work. If it doesn't work, it won't work. I have to say that this is becoming some sort of group of different ministers who are introducing some new things, and then, when it's born, they say we're going to try something else another time. In short, I say once again that by introducing the values, so by increasing red tape, we will not be able to solve the work in black. There's only one solution. A real job for as many people as possible. And even when we propose a special session on this subject, when we might be invited, I don't know what kind of experts, but the problem is. Then we come up with one of the values, and we say, "Reform the package, we're going to increase the number of employees, and the value is one of the pieces we're going to solve it with." We won't. Think about people working and paying taxes. However, taxes will be paid in such a way that there will be no high tax on them and some unreasonable bureaucratic procedures that introduce confusion into the lives of each individual, especially in these times. Dearly beloved, I believe that whoever reads these transitional and final provisions will be someone who wants to be an employer as a natural person, or someone who wants to do so will probably have to provide a lawyer and probably some other social worker with these transitional and final provisions to try to explain to you what this is all about. If he already understands what the neighborhood is, then the family help, respected, he will not believe it, and he will fear it. On the other hand, I have a feeling in all these forms that we have – and I hope that I will not be offensive again – that you want to fight people again and then you will rule better. Don't do this, you're doing it rationally and what's going to happen in practice. But not something theoretical to write in some marriage where we all know there will be a problem in practice. Rather, let us take some time, think about it, and do it, not be guinea pigs, as we are in this particular case. Unfortunately. I hope, however, that our amendment will be confirmed at least with the announced support of fellow citizens in the National Gazette and that this debate on the values will be over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u137	Thank you very much. I've also seen Kristina Valenčič to want to discuss it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. On the question posed, my colleague Jazbec, I would just like to answer why it bothers us so much. Because it'll be a commitment. This is not an additional option that we introduce into the system. The person who does the extra work will have to buy a valuation. It will, of course, be able to perform certain types of personal supplemental work, such as instruction or snow breaking, also through a business contract. What about the one doing the services? Am I going to do this by myself because I'm kneeling napkins, and I'm going to make a deal? It's not working. So we're loading up. And again, because you're wondering about the specific effects. Were we in the field? Did we see what the transporters did? It is good that we were saved by the desire to have at least this situation properly settled or temporarily settled. The same confusion will be with these values.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Reploco wants Mr. Jazbec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u140	Let me get this straight. It's already an obligation. That's exactly why I'm saying there's no difference. Even now, if you have a personal extra job, it's mandatory to go to the administrative unit and report it, but otherwise it's a black job.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u141	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else would like to discuss it. No one wants to. This means that I am concluding the debate. The amendments will be decided in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 23rd session of the Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 15.15, fifteen past three.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u142	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Before we move to a decision, allow me to thank you for understanding that the rest of the discussion lasted 15 minutes, because His Excellency the President of the Czech Republic, Mr Miloš Zeman, is visiting Slovenia and I also hosted the President of the National Assembly in the course of this visit, so I asked to postpone the vote for 15 minutes so that we can be present at the vote, together with colleagues who participated in this reception. Well, thanks again for your understanding. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Please check the functioning of the voting apparatus before the vote begins. Just in peace, just in peace, I'll wait. Okay? Can we move on? We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agricultural Law under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Can we make a decision? We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 76 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreigners Act under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Can we make a decision? We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 4. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the Assembly that, pursuant to paragraph 2 of Article 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it adopt the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Foreigners Act. Can we decide this decision? We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 76 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to amendments adopted in the second reading at the home work body and at the meeting of the National Assembly, the proposal for a law would be inconsistent. Can we make a decision? We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 76 Members and Members present, 48 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law on prevention of work and employment in the light of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 4. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We move on to Article 5 and decide on the amendment of Article 5 of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Can we make a decision? We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 45. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to Article 7 and, in the framework of the amendments tabled under Article 7, I would like to remind you that the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors and the amendments of the positive Slovenia, Social Democrats, the Civil Gazette and DeSUS to Article 7 are the same, so we will vote on them together. We therefore decide together on both amendments to Article 7. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendments have been accepted. We are moving on to Article 8 and I also note in Article 8 that the amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the amendment of the coalition's sent groups to Article 8 are the same, so we will vote on them together. Can we make a decision? We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendments have been accepted. We're moving on to Article 9. Here I remind you that the amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the amendments of the coalition's sent groups to Article 9 are the same, so we will vote on them together. Can we make a decision? We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 76 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendments have been accepted. We're moving on to Article 12. Here I remind you: the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 12 is linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Articles 13, 14, 15, 19, 28, 29, 30, 31 and 32. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendments to that Article shall become irrelevant. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 12. Can we make a decision? Has anyone expressed an interest in explaining the voice? I missed it. Ms Romana Tomc, explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u143	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. As you may all know, we are talking about a different and new arrangement of personal complementary work that already exists today but is complex and burdensome. The ministry or the proposer builds on what we now have with so-called values, which, in our opinion, will not relieve or facilitate personal complementary work, but rather introduce another additional bureaucratic obstacle. The aim that the applicant seeks to achieve is also to reduce work in black. Believe me, the values will not be those that will reduce the grey economy and work to black in Slovenia. They will further complicate the already complex system, where we have many options, how we can work on the basis of employment contracts, on the basis of business contracts and other contracts, but the problem in Slovenia is not that we have too little legal basis, we have too little work and what we have is too much burden. They also deviate from the way contributions are calculated from the now established pension and health system and thus introduce an additional anomaly, which is certainly not good if we want to make the system more transparent and fairer. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, of course, we have already explained in the debate all the substantive reasons why we cannot and will not support the introduction of the values and, of course, we will vote in favour of our amendment that this area remains as it has been before. For us, there is a bigger problem than whether we will get the new 200 000 euros in pension and health allowance that pension cash and health bills actually do not get all the contributions they are entitled to because the state does not make an effort to collect the contributions. At the moment or in 2013 we had almost 250 million unpaid contributions in Slovenia, according to data provided by the Government. Of course, it would be more appropriate for the state or government to do everything that these contributions are collected, not to introduce new, bureaucratic complications and ways of working that will not help to reduce the grey economy, not to lower the amount of work in black.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u144	Thank you. We can decide) Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Mrs Kristina Valenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u145	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group, let me say that this amendment, as well as all amendments that are substantively linked to this amendment, will be supported. Today, my colleagues and I have made a number of content arguments, so I will not repeat them, but I would like to reiterate once again that the National List has been corrected by the coalition partner all the time, that we have expressed our reservations from the very first moment and we have warned about this and that we remain in the future. We didn't just say stop red tape, we said stop taxes, and of course we insist.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u146	Thank you. Can we make a decision? No, more explanation for the voice in your own name? Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u147	Thank you so much for saying that. I propose a 20-minute recess before the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u148	Thank you. Does anyone else want to explain their voice in their own name before I order a break? I guess not. So I am adjourning the meeting for 20 minutes on the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. We'll resume the session at 15.50.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u149	Dear Members and Members, ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our work. Prior to the decision, Mr Jože Tanko requested a recess on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. I'm asking if you'd like to present your position? No, no, no. Procedurally, Mr. Matjaž Han. What is your procedural proposal, Mr Han?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u150	Maybe I'd like to take five more minutes off, please, before the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u151	So, before the decision, minutes ago on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group. We'll resume at 3 p.m. and 56 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u152	Members and Members, ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our work. After consulting the Group of Social Democrats, I ask if it is possible for the leader to present his position. He doesn't want to. So we are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 12. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 39. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 12 has not been adopted, the amendments to Articles 13, 14, 15, 19, 28, 29, 30, 31 and 32 are irrelevant. We have therefore concluded our decision on the amendments. And this concludes the second reading of the bill. However, I am giving the word to the representative of the Government as a proponent of the bill if he wishes to make a proposal for further consideration. Here, you have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u153	Thank you for your word. In accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would ask if a third reading could be made at this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-03-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u154	Thank you, too. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the draft law proposed that the State Assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. Can we decide this decision? We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 29. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. As the proposed decision has not been adopted, the Council of State will hold its third consideration of the bill at its next meeting. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the National Assembly that it adopt the following decision: the draft law for the third reading be drawn up by the Government. Can we decide this decision? We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 79 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 20. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and Jersey on the exchange of information in relation to tax matters with the Protocol. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. Can we make a decision? We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present. It's 73 votes against no one. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. Period of the day, that's a mental-voluntary matter. Under point a, we are moving on to the hearing of the Notice of the District Court in Maribor, Investigation Department, concerning the permission to initiate criminal proceedings against the Member of the Mag. Ivana Vogrin The notice was forwarded to the District Court in Maribor, Investigation Department. The notice was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body which informed the assembly in writing. We're moving on to decision-making. The Commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: National Assembly, pursuant to Article 83(3) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members concerning the notification of the Maribor District Court, Investigation Section, No.: I Apr 8627/2014 of 7. 3. 2014 concerning the authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against the Member of the Magi. Ivan Vogrin for the suspicion of a criminal offence of a business fraud under Article 228(1) of the Penal Code and for the offence of violating foreign rights under Article 223, paragraph 2, of the Penal Code relating to Article 54. The Penal Code does not grant immunity to a Magi Member. And allow Ivan Vogrin to conduct a criminal procedure. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the National Assembly shall decide on a proposal for a decision without discussion. Can we make a decision? We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Under point b, we are moving on to the hearing of the Government's Notice of the resignation of Dr. Alenka Trop Skaza from the post of Minister of Health. The President of the Magnificent Government. Alenka Bratušek gave me a letter of 31. 3. 2014 notified that Dr Alenka Trop Skaza has resigned from her post as Minister of Health. The Minister of State informed the National Assembly that she did not wish to explain her resignation and, in this regard, the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, notes that Dr. Alenki Trop Skaza has ceased to serve as Minister of Health. On the basis of Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Alenka Trop Skaza conducts ongoing operations until the appointment of a new Minister or until the notification of the President of the Government in accordance with Article 234(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Allow me to express my thanks to Dr. Alenka Trop Skaza on this finding on behalf of the National Assembly and, of course, I wish her the best work in the course of her business career. I hereby conclude this agenda item and hereby terminate the 23rd meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you for today and for seeing me tomorrow.
