ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 2nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Irena Grošelj Kosnik, mag. Alenka Bratusek, mag. Marko Pogačnik, Marijan Pojbič, Karl Viktor Erjavec and Franc Jurša. I've invited a candidate to the meeting for Ambassador Magi. Dusan Verbič and the representative of the State Election Commission at the 2nd item of the agenda and the representative of the Government. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 2nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Tuesday 26 August 2014, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. The SDS Group is 27. 8. 2014 proposed that the agenda of the 2nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly under item 2 be extended to include a proposal for a decision on the election of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. The proposal for enlargement is irrelevant because I have already classified the said matter in the course of the meeting as sub-item A under item 2 of the agenda and therefore we will not decide on it. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 1. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 2nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving to 2. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. On the inside, we will first consider the appointment of a candidate who, in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members, will act as a Member instead of a Member acting as Prime Minister of the Government. Since Mr Miro Cerar at the time of his office as President is unable to act as a Member of Parliament, the State Election Commission forwarded to the Assembly a decision establishing that the right to replace Mr Mir Cerar at the time when he served as President of the Government of Mags. Baby Verbich. The decision of the State Election Commission was addressed by the Commission on Elections, which also provided written reports to the assembly and submitted a proposal for a decision. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? Thank you. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? [[No, no, ……]] Do Members and Members want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Okay, then I conclude the debate and we are moving on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the following motion for a decision: At a time when a Member of the Government acting as President of the Government in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members cannot act as a Member, he shall act in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members of 28. 8. 2014 mag. Dusan Verbich, born 13. 9. 1952, living in Dolenjska cesta 149/a, Ljubljana. We're voting. 79 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. A fellow MP, Mag. I invite Dušana Verbič to join us and occupy her post. I want my colleague to perform his duties successfully in the parliamentary benches. / applause/ We are moving on to the consideration of the Decision on the election of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. On the basis of the decision to determine the number of seats of members of the working groups of the National Assembly and to determine the groups of Members belonging to them as Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the working bodies of the National Assembly, which was adopted by the College of the President of the National Assembly at its meeting on 22 August 2014, they submitted proposals to the National Assembly for consideration by the President, the Vice-President and the members of that Commission. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is from Dr. Simon Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u2	Honorable President of the National Assembly, esteemed colleague and colleague! Since the circumstances regarding the termination or non-existence of the term of office of one of the members of the Commission, the proposed members of the Commission have not changed in the meantime, the SMC Group will vote against the composition of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u3	Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u4	Dear colleagues! What was not possible in the College on Tuesday when I proposed that the point of appointment or election of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Security Intelligence Commission should be placed on this meeting of the National Assembly, then happened on its own. At that time, the President of the National Assembly said that if this point were to be placed on the agenda, they would violate the decision taken by the National Assembly. And as you can see, it didn't happen in this part, in fact with this classification point to no violation, because the President did it on his own. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that all Members of the National Assembly have confirmed mandates, that the decision to confirm mandates, if I use judicial terminology, is legal and that from the moment we have received the approved mandates, all the rules, rights, all the obligations, all the duties laid down by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which are laid down by law and constitution, apply to us. No Member in the National Assembly may, on the basis of a confirmed mandate, give up its activities in the National Assembly or in the working bodies of the National Assembly, in any event. What happened in the debates at the meeting of the National Assembly when you proposed a procedural withdrawal of the item from the agenda, and also later in the explanations, when you referred to the fact that one of the Members cannot participate in one of the working bodies, is bullying, is behaviour that violates practically all the legal bases from the constitution forward. No one can be denied to work in any working body. And I am only now asking my fellow Members how this Member, without any problem, can operate within the Committee on Foreign Policy, can work without a problem within the Commission for the supervision of public finances, but must not act on a committee that oversees so-called secret services. Someone said that this was not possible because he would have had an insight into possible hearings, into activities that, on the basis of orders or not, were carried out, say, by the police or by secret services. However, any of us in the Security and Intelligence Supervisory Commission may, in the same way, be inspected or supervised under the same criteria without knowing it, and will also supervise the work of this service. Given that this coalition escapes the establishment of a commission to oversee military and secret service, of course, the Sovo, this means that, during this period, there is a gap in the conduct of both the government, which runs out of mandate, as well as for a mandate-holder who forms a new government and leaves both intelligence services completely unsupervised, without mandatory parliamentary supervision. It's unacceptable that this is happening, unacceptable. I think that the National Assembly should set up this committee, because it is one of the six permanent committees of the National Assembly, five of which you have set up, you have set up all those who are not required, and for the Commission of the National Security and Intelligence Committee there will obviously not be sufficient support in the coalition. The fact that the leader of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Mir Cerar said that this problem could be solved by itself also puts pressure on the independence of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and also constitutes a violation of Article 14 of the Constitution, because in this case it is an obvious political segregation of an individual, says the elected Member with a full mandate and, of course, of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. I hope that in the National Assembly, wisdom will prevail, that we will establish what the National Assembly must establish, and that this body, too, will carry out its tasks as all other commissions or labour bodies set up by the National Assembly, regardless of what the mandate holder wants, regardless of what the largest parliamentary group in the National Assembly wants, no matter what the President of the National Assembly thinks. The rules are clearly laid down, the normative acts are adopted and valid, and if you want to respect the principles of the rule of law, then these matters must be taken into account. It is not possible to lay down a rule or to talk about the implementation of the provisions of the rule of law and the respect of the rule of law if the largest party [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u5	Time, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u6	In fact, it violates the Constitution and also all other acts established on the basis of the Constitution or adopted in the National Assembly. [[…]] I suggest you change your mind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u7	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Anybody want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u8	Thank you very much, President. I suggest you check the watch. The clock's not working. The leader of the parliamentary group spoke more than the time allowed, so that these discregans will not come forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u9	Because he spoke more than was permissible, I warned him. So there's nothing more to do here. So once again, I'm asking Members if anyone wants a word? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Jean Mahnič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! For the first time in the history of Slovenia, intelligence services have no control. Now I don't know if you know what intelligence services are, or if you're not aware of the importance of controlling them. And as I know, Mr. Janez Janša's mandate has been confirmed as well as all others. I wonder if he is a Member with a limited mandate. It has the same rights as all other Members and Members, and I really don't see why we shouldn't set up this commission today. It is a sensitive matter, if, as has already been said, a member of all other committees, I see no reason why he should not be a member here. Are you all sure that you are not being listened to or that you are not in any predictive procedure? It's easy for anyone. Therefore, if we conclude by this logic, none of us should be a member of this committee for the supervision of security and intelligence services. As the only European country, this is a rabble, we are out of control, and I wonder when we will be out of control. When will your paid lawyers issue that opinion that you will finally be able to decide on the mandate of John Janša? After all, the decision of the Constitutional Court is clear. I call here on common sense to reconsider and to finally set up this committee today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u11	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Of course, we are discussing a subject that we will continue to listen to on that side of things, which is how someone was elected by law and what rights he has. I agree with you, young man, of course. And don't teach us what the commission is and what history is for the first time and isn't. Your group leader, of course, did not teach you and tell you what your group was doing in the previous term when it prevented the same Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš in order to be elected to this commission. He didn't tell you that. But what is why our group will not support this commission, as long as, of course, the proposed Member Janez Janša sits inside, is something else. The fact is that you've been explaining all along that we're all exactly the same and that we all have the same starting points. In front of me I have the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, and if you read one of them, it is said, after Article 4, the 12th point, which very clearly says the following. "Despite interests are circumstances in which the private interest of an official influences or creates the appearance that affects the impartial and objective performance of his public duties." This is certainly one of the points that would make it impossible for you, as a group of Members or Mr Janez Janša himself, to assess that it simply cannot work on this committee. That is why it is impossible to accept such a proposal, and we have repeatedly stressed how we ourselves will, at first, simply respect a certain order that we have set for ourselves here in the National Assembly, and, finally, it has been accepted by this assembly. And until we do so, we cannot imagine that we can expect this from all the other authorities in this country. That's the problem. And it's not true that for the first time, it happened that someone was simply told that they didn't belong on this committee. At least for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u13	Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u14	Your Honor! Here today, those watching us through television will be able to understand the understanding of democracy and the understanding of law in the Republic of Slovenia. It's interesting that in this composition there are so many lawyers, doctors of law, magistrates of law, and that we fall into the alphabet of democracy and the alphabet of law. At least in 1990 we broke some revolutionary law. At a time when revolutionary law was being misused for the benefit of the ruling authority, because and as a result, some of the formal indicators showed that it was the right thing to do, and in fact it was wrong. Human rights were violated, and all of this was once thought of being eliminated. The whole series of events currently taking place in Slovenia shows that revolutionary law has not found its place in the history dump site, nor has it found its place in textbooks where lawyers, at least those who are in the educational process, could learn what injustices were used by the then authorities, where the holders of this injustice are still teaching law. It's abuse. Abuse of the law, that's a disgrace to the law. And, dear colleagues, I expect you to make your statement today on your particular conscience, and above all your legal knowledge, because in the coming weeks, the months when certain procedures will run before, I hope, the Supreme Court, perhaps even the Constitutional Court, this will be another aspect of how you understand democracy and law. This will be a typical display of what is right and what kind of lawyers teach and operate in our country. I have nothing else to say. All the other arguments are not arguments, but in these days, when this National Assembly was established, I have seen in particular not your argument, but quite a moralization. And that's what has nothing to do with law. That moralization has a place in some other institution, not here where the temple of democracy is supposed to be. And in the temple of democracy, we must also respect the right. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u15	The word has magic. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u16	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services is quite a special committee. He's got some specials. The first feature is that it works behind closed doors and that the members of this committee are familiar with secret and secondary information that is sensitive to the State and also to individuals. The second feature is that the majority of the members of this committee always have the opposition to exercise civilian control over intelligence services, which are managed in one way or another by the President of the Government. This is the arrangement in Slovenia. And there is another very important feature, which is the only one for this committee, that we need 46 votes for each member we appoint to this committee, or for every member appointed to this committee. The writers of this law most likely set this quorum so high for each member precisely because of the sensitivity of this commission. And the key thing in all this is that this commission cannot operate without the agreement of the opposition and the coalition. So the coalition has the opportunity to block the establishment of this commission, the opposition has the opportunity to propose a member who will not receive the support of 46 votes, and thus prolong the appointment of this commission. It is essential, however, that if the Commission is established and the opposition and the coalition do not agree, this commission cannot do its work at all. Even though it is right that all the members who are new, you know, even if this commission is set up today, if we receive this commission today, and if then seven members who will be appointed cannot agree to form a three-member balanced commission with representatives of the coalition and the opposition, then these people cannot go into control anyway. So today, let us take a step that is just a first and a single step. And if cooperation between the opposition and the coalition does not occur, then this commission is disabled anyway. I do not think it is necessary to stress that we are playing with fire if we are to prolong the establishment of this commission, because today the intelligence and security services in Slovenia do not have civilian control, which is bad. The only solution that I see — if one member particularly bothers you — is to resolve this matter, to finally decide once again in this mandate and not to drag things on indefinitely.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u17	The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u18	Good-bye to all of you. Your Honor! The European Court of Human Rights has already ruled, at least three times in different cases, that passive electoral rights, the right to be loved, cover not only the right to choose, but also the right to carry out the entire mandate in full and without restriction. This is also stated in one of the judgments of the Slovenian Constitutional Court, which, by the way, pointed out something else, that any decision on the restriction or withdrawal of a mandate does not only mean deciding on the passive electoral right of the person directly concerned, in the case of SDS President Janez Janša, but also deciding on the active electoral right, the right to vote all those who have entrusted themselves with it in the elections their vote. This is the 6,000 116 votes of voters and voters received by Janez Janša, which is the largest number that any candidate received in this year's elections in Slovenia, by the way. And you take this right despite these clear positions by the Slovenian Constitutional Court, the European Court of Human Rights and given that there is no basis in the Constitution for such conduct as you now have. So all you're doing with that independent committee that you're proposing from the coalition to the former president of the Central Committee of the Union of Communists, that is, political parties -- this is truly independent, congratulations -- and all you've done today and what you've done with this committee is a pure farce and obviously a conscious, unconstitutional conduct of the current coalition. You have no right, you have no avant-garde to correct the electoral outcome of those 6,000 116 voters who entrusted Janez Janša with their vote. His mandate is valid, his mandate has been confirmed in this National Assembly and you have no right to interfere with it. This is said to be your duty, the duty of this national assembly to enable it to perform its work in full. This is also the responsibility of all voters and voters. So, all that's going on with this committee right now is empty excuses, obviously unconstitutional work. So why is he really going? I'd like to remind you of something. Special methods and means, or if you want secret services, have already been proven misused in Slovenia against the current largest opposition party, SDS. And at least one of these cases, interestingly, was spoiled by the supervision of this parliamentary commission, which carried out one unannounced review. And then, you won't believe, Mr. Janez Janša was in its composition. And what did they find? At the headquarters of one of the secret services, they found documents that later proved to be a complete forgery, after which the SDS would train some Muslim extremists or something like that. You know the story very well and have experienced its infamous. [[Incomprehensible]] This proves, of course, that in Slovenia secret accounting services have been misused, specifically for an attempt at political accounting with SDS. And because of this, of course, you are concerned that you would not be a member of this committee, someone who knows these things, who knows the methods of work and the means of secret services that he has experienced on his own in the previous totalitarian regime and who is obviously experiencing them again now. Talking about someone being able to be in the predictive process is kind of funny, especially given who you're talking about. One of those who spoke earlier about whose boss he had a few years ago and what we could read about the procedures to be followed in this regard is much more likely in some predictive process than in the one you're talking about. That also tells us how empty your excuses are. So it is only a question of what is the fundamental question of democracy: Who is the one who controls the overseers? And in this case, by your conduct, you prevent the establishment of an immediate, timely and effective composition of a commission that would be able to carry out its work properly and fully, even though we are bound by both the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the applicable legislation, which is written in such a way that a dead course without supervision in the field of secret services should not be at all. Responsibility [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u19	The word has Dr. Vinko Gorenjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u20	No J. It's okay, thanks. The Security Intelligence Supervisory Commission shall be a special committee. It's not a simple commission, you all know that. First of all, we love her separately, as you know. Secondly, there must be 46 Members. Thirdly, there is no substitute in this committee and this commission normally works in closed rooms. It also has specific acts on which it works. This all shows that this commission is of great importance and that those who designed it in the past, of course, were aware of its importance. Never in the history of Slovenia has it happened that the National Assembly would not set up this commission. Never. If we were to theoretically stand up in 2008, when the government of Janez Janša began to work, and, for example, we would not vote for such a commission, do you imagine what would happen in our media landscape? Something impossible. It's an unheard-of thing! I don't know what's gonna happen today. That this commission is of particular importance to me you can also believe for the reason that I participated in such a commission on the one hand and, on the other hand, was also in charge of the functioning of the police and the criminal police. Let me make up a little bit of what Mr Grimes said. I believe that time will do its job and we will forget. I think it was in 1999, Sova wrote a report that simply spoke about the KLA's terrorist organisation. At a time when the whole world and Europe were leaning towards this and recognizing who is the one who is taking things in the right direction in Kosovo and who is the one who is not, this service was still talking about the terrorist organisation and the members should be trained in the SDS. Do you see any abuse anyone can do? And the service that can so abuse data remains unsupervised today. Why is that?Oh, my God! Why is he out of control?Oh, my God! You know, it's very nice or it's easy to leave behind the stupidity of Jani Möderndorfer, who's talking about the Corruption Act. The corruption law does not determine who may become a member of this commission. And what is disturbing is, the leader of the SMC Group, at least for me, that you may say with such a thing: We will not support it, for there is a messenger sitting there, who should not sit there. There have been very similar cases in the past period. One such case was the moralist Dr. Virant, who simply said, "I will not cooperate with the SDS." One such was Mr. Möderndorfer, who had an army after him, just as you have today, and he said vehemently, "This is how it will be." Voting time also does its part. One more thing to say is that the argument that you, if you have, Mr Janša could get some data, sorry if you were thinking about any information about Patria, this story is over. He needs to know everything in this area, because he had to be represented in court, if it was, I don't know. But if there are any procedures we don't know about, tell me which one of you may claim that Owl or the criminal police are not listening to him. Which one of you can claim that? Which one of you? And whoever comes to this committee will therefore be able to have access to this data and therefore, theoretically, no one has the opportunity to be on this committee. This argument, Mrs Kustec, is empty, it blows like a balloon that breaks. Well, now you have the power. After a while, though, you may be able to get out of here with your head bowed down. Maybe I don't want to, but that's just not how it's done. Yesterday too — I will talk about it later — there was something very, very similar. In short, it's time for you to act rationally. If what you said will be voted out, I am sure, and at this point I can only say something – that we will have to really assess in the SDS the situation of how to work in the National Assembly, because we will be forced to do so. That's why I'm asking you not to do anything stupid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u21	The word has magic. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. It seems a little unusual to me when some in this Chamber still feel that they are sitting in the Ljubljana Municipality Hall and representing four seats from the position of power. Implementation of one of the speakers, czech, because what you are going to do in the SDS, because you have also blocked the appointment of one of our proposals, Positive Slovenia, just testifying to what we are not supposed to talk about today, and what the new mandate holder spoke about in his inaugural speech – that is, cooperation, respect and not resentment. And what Mr Möderndorfer has said is that you have not named one of our own, so now we will not be yours, just as we are witnessing that the logic of some in the National Assembly is at odds with what they officially represent in public. And colleague Möderndorfer knows very well that there was a commission at the time, there was only one member of this committee at issue, and today, because you do not want someone named Janez Janša to block control of one of the most crucial institutions in this country. And that's what lawyers at the Mir Cerar Party do. They say that with the arrival of new political competition on the political market, Slovenia has taken over the legal lobby. What you are monitoring today is a demonstration of what predominance means, the hegemony of legal logic over law and the established procedure. Your Honor! You plead not to support this proposal because the Mandate-Election Commission has not yet decided on one mandate, which it has already decided is not disputed. The 3rd item of the 1st meeting of the Mandate-Making Commission clearly states that none of the 90 mandates in the National Assembly is disputed. Today, however, you want to decide again on one undisputed mandate and because you do not have a legal basis – the legal lobby, I repeat – to do so by the Legislative and Legal Service, you have hired alleged legal experts at the expense of taxpayers who are selling their legal knowledge on the market. In particular, the candidate or lawyer you hired at the Mir Cerar Party has already earned EUR 142 000 in the eight months of this year from the state budget, i.e. from the public administration. And now you're going to pay him 10,000 extra euros to write a decision he's already made publicly. But we're back in one conundrum. If it's such a clear decision of paid lawyers, yes, let's make a decision. Therefore, make a decision based on these legal opinions, take responsibility, and then you will hear what the Constitution says at the level of the Constitutional Court. But obviously you do not dare to take this decision, although, once again, the Party of Mir Cerar bears the greatest responsibility because it has the majority of its mandate-holders and can make the decision it wants to make. I guess you don't. Among other things, if you have closely followed the speaker's speech, he has only used the word "responsibility" three times in his 120 minutes or 90 minutes, but not in terms of politics, but in terms of public administration, the environment of protection, and so on. By not confirming the Commission, although you do not like one of the members, I also probably don't like any of the members of a committee, but I will therefore vote honestly in favour, applying double standards in some way. Look, you have no problem confirming the composition of the Finance Committee. It sits, I don't know whether it's current or not, or whether it's not the President of the Government who is probably lobbying in Brussels for his post of Commissioner, who is in the Committee on Finance, has left you with such a budget that Mr Cerar said that the country is seriously ill. But without any reservation, you would have confirmed her mandate. So please, as a legal lobby that is obviously established in Slovenia, act in law, not in law. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u23	Because I have seen that there is still interest in reaching out to individual Members, I am reopening or asking for an application. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! I am rightly asking myself here whether John Janša is the reason for this future or future coalition. Reasons for not setting up a Commission for the supervision of intelligence services. Or is it someone else? Or is it possible that some in this country do not want these services actually to be controlled? Of course, what this means for the rule of law and for the rule of law that the mandate holder spoke about in his speech is, of course, another issue. The question is, of course, whether this rule of law and this rule of law is all that, of course, it has had an entire exposition here on it, in fact only in words or in actions. Does not the fact that you do not want to set up a commission to oversee intelligence and anti-intelligence services mean a smaller legal state. For who? For people. For these services, which have their history in Slovenia, and in Slovenia we have a formal democracy for some more than twenty years, but in totalitarian systems we have also had intelligence, anti-intelligence services and, of course, this service with political connotation, the question is, of course, what your decision today or the announcement of your decision means for the legal country whose mouth was full of mandate holders. Has he already failed the first test? Whether the Mir Cerar Party has already failed the first test when it speaks on the one hand about the rule of law, and on the other hand it does not guarantee the rule of law by ensuring that these institutions act to operate civil control institutions over intelligence and anti-intelligence services. Ladies and gentlemen, I think there's something on this. And I think the question is, if you are aware that it may be in the interest of someone else, that these services are not working, and maybe you are just here as a tool so that of course you do not vote on the establishment of this commission. And today is the first time in the history of the National Assembly that this commission is not established and has nothing to do with former Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš. For at that time this commission was established and acted and the decision was completely different. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, I would like you as a coalition to move from words to actions. From the words about the rule of law, with which you have finally convinced so many and so many people to now implement them and ensure the control of the repressive authorities in Slovenia and the control of the authorities that can actually influence them, and negatively, respect for human rights in the country. I think there are fundamental questions here about all of this, not Janez Janša. Janez Janša has a mandate and Janez Janša can act on any committee or committee of the National Assembly. That's what the State Election Commission gave him. And all the reasons cited here are twisted from the vine. Maybe there's a reason somewhere else and you don't even know where. Maybe someone in the background wants it to be out of control over these jobs. And I propose that, on behalf of the rule of law, which of course you are defending, you simply create the possibility that this rule of law will actually work. That's the only question. Go from words to actions.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u25	Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. This mandate is marked by some specific features. And in one word, we could say that we are witnessing the improvement of the illegal situation that started with the pre-election campaign and the elections and the establishment of the Mandate-Electorial Commission and is now continuing to establish some of the key working bodies of the National Assembly. It's an unsustainable state. Unresistible. And those who speak of respect for the institutions of the rule of law must first ensure that you respect the institution in which you are employed. The National Assembly is an integral part of the institutions of the rule of law, it has confirmed the mandates of all of us Members here present and only one, ad to persons, as you like to call those who are legally more skilled, you state the reason why you will not set up one of the committees. Ad personam, against one person. The second thing to say is that the proposer does not speak at all. He says one procedural sentence, sits down and shuts up from the beginning until the end of the meeting, and let it be in the National Assembly, let it be in the working body. Catastrophe. He is unable to defend and defend the decision he proposes on behalf of the Group of Members. And it's not any of them, it's the biggest, with the most doctors, and it's the legal doctors, the legal experts. This is where one of his colleagues was talking about Barbara Žgajner Tavš. The Commission was established in its previous mandate. The Commission acted in the previous term. Because of the decisions made by the largest group of the current positive Slovenia to replace a member of the committee, this member did not change because he was not voted because someone had left for another function. But the commission was set up, and the commission worked and went to the field. At that time, the commission was led by one of the members of the opposition, normally convened meetings, exercised supervision and so on. The situation is completely different. And in this case, when you're here, you're preventing the commission from even being set up to have any kind of control over secret or intelligence services. The intelligence services are now completely under the influence of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Full and unsupervised. The Owl is subordinate and reports to someone called the government, the military intelligence service of the Ministry of Defence. Together, they both rule. So there will be no parliamentary oversight of these services. And if you know what you're deciding, I'll read to you that the National Assembly or this commission that you don't want to set up is "supervises the use by law of certain specific forms, methods and measures of obtaining data from the intelligence security services". So you, with the non-establishment of this commission, are preventing even the National Assembly, as the only one in this country, from checking if anything is going on, these special methods and means, Mr Dobovšek will certainly know this, in accordance with the application of the law and lay down the law. You're preventing this. Now I'm just asking who it's in the interest of. Or the government that's leaving? Or the government that's coming? Or both governments, leaving and coming? It's probably part of this collective security and protection coalition. Today, we hear that the General Assembly will decide at its plenary session not to set up this committee. There was a meeting last night between us. There has also been a decision that, in our view, even though someone is personally expressing himself in a court of law, he may even be the chairman of the Senate to decide. Nothing bothers anyone. No supervision of the judiciary has been determined. Nothing. It's okay there. In this case, there are a lot of concerns. In short, because there are no arguments, it is more than clear that you are deciding this ad personam based on your feelings, based on your personal relationship, aversion against someone and so on, against the party, against the individual, against the Member. Irresistible and unworthy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u27	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u28	Hello. Thank you for your word. Since I've got quite a bit of time, I'm gonna take advantage of a little rhetoric. I agree with Mr Tank on these procedural matters, and such a strong team could make procedural proposals in the future. I definitely agree with Mr Tonin, my colleague Tonin, I apologize, I was anxious after my first meeting that I should not use my personal names, but we will be coworkers here, I hope, for four years, I apologize, Matthew. I also know that I am being monitored, of course – and in communications, often, and on the phone and on the world web – I welcome them. Some people have to do it on duty. I hope they're doing this professionally. All this complication and all this story. The SDS very much exposes the numbers, I'm the man who came out of the numbers, here we're going to have a great love for four years, I hope. There is talk of these 6,000 and a few other Members of the Parliament, John John Janša. I don't think that's a good result. If I had so much space in the media, a colleague in Maribor said in pre-election time, "Listen, Franjo, I don't even hope to open my pasta so Janša won't jump out." And if I had such a moral capital to start the independence of Slovenia, and the people of God, I would have between 30 and 35% of the votes by now. Why Janez Janša, I don't know, I won't salt the SDS. Some prominent members have started to solute a little, I supervise your web portal every day – and of course all other parties – and I know that after the elections they made a statement, the next day some prominent former ministers had to demarcate their statement immediately. The problem of Janez Janša here as a Member, Mr Logar says a visa to Mr Jani, was disputed by only one member of the Commission. Comrade Logar, it's the same today. I have already told the media, we have a third branch of power, which please take this role, and decide on the mandate of Mr Janez Janša. Because otherwise, you know, I went to a new shift I mean, damn it, it's gonna be a little less boring than where Igor Lukšič is sunbathing now, but it's not. This is getting so predictable. I don't know. I'm gonna get sick of this. And if Janez Janša was a man of his word. John Janša once stated that if he was legally sentenced to resign. Mr. Janez Janša, I urge you to be a man of your word to serve your sentence. If you've made mistakes, you'll charge it fat as it says in my mother's language, and that's it. After all, it costs you how much, you got 21% of the votes, 50.6 and something else, 10% of the voters. If you include at least older minors from 14 years of age, you are supported by, say, a dozen Slovenian bodies, which are political beings. Let's stop with, let's get serious to work, that's what the voters told us and with the non-participation and the cuts in the voting votes. [[…]] That you proposed to Mr Janša was your manoeuvre, expected, within your tactics and strategies, and now we will be here – what – as the age of Slovenian parliamentaryism, "afne guncali". I think we're going to push them off quickly to set up a commission, because of course we need control of those who control them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u29	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u30	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the President! Shame. It's a shame that I have to listen here and be ashamed of how we started this mandate. That's right. At least there's one thing we'll probably ever agree on. The Constitution is clear, respected. Personally, I was elected to this National Assembly to follow the Constitution. Article 43: "Every citizen has the right to vote and be loved". And what are we doing or what are you doing in here today?Oh, my God! You divide the Members into first-class and second-class. Is this the equality that your mouth is full of over and over again?Oh, my God! Is this the will of the people we love to hear about?Oh, my God! Shame, shame and another shame. That's right. In a way, we have a second-class Member. In fact, all of us were able to go to the polls during the campaign, talk to them, and meet them. One of the candidates, I'm sorry, was confirmed just like all of us, at a time when it was necessary to apply for no mishaps, he couldn't do that. He couldn't meet, he couldn't even defend himself. So, look, the number of votes to discuss in here is ridiculous. It's funny and sad. And one more thing. The fact is that this second-rate Member, in your opinion, has obtained the largest number of votes. Maximum number of votes. And now you are not only him, but you are also preventing his constituents from performing the duties for which he was elected. More than that, to wash our hands like Pilate, you invented an independent committee of experts. Excuse me. For me, they're mercenaries, because if I have a slightly thicker wallet, they're gonna write an opinion like I want. So please do not convince anyone that this will be an independent opinion. You have been elected here, we have all been elected here to discharge our responsibilities and responsibilities in a responsible manner and we also stand behind it. And one more thing. You've come up with a commission without a hand! What does that mean? That he'll be a second-rate Member, in your opinion, what's the whole mandate? Will we always say, "There is no decision yet!"? What the hell kind of decision are we waiting for? Independent legal experts? Yes, please! They're subscribers! And you who get to know each other so well may well know that we can also request a survey in which we eventually get the result we want. So, excuse the expression, not "color" the Slovenian people! Slovenia is sinking, and you are dealing with the mandate of Janez Janša, what he can and cannot do. Of course, we could have read a lot about him, a lot of things, but let’s see what these articles were like and how many times we could defend ourselves against them. So, see if in this country it is as it is written in the constitution that the will of the people is essential, then today John Janša must become a legal and equal member of this commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u31	Dr. Franz Duck reporting to the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. Thank you for a nice performance, colleague Anya. And I don't know why you're looking at me, because I'm not a coalition here, and I'm not going to make up a government. In fact, I am very sad — why? – because you insult Mr. John Janša as a member of his party. He is not a second-rate Member, we are all Members here. Please don't insult your president! Mr. Janša, I would not allow this in my coalition to be so insulted, indeed. As a gentleman wrote: "Janez Janša is a Member." That's right. We also have some instructions in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia on what to take and how to resolve this. That's not settled by law, I'm afraid. Why is that? I don't know. I am now – here, I haven't gotten my first salary yet, and because I am a new politician, I am already guilty of everything that went wrong in this Slovenia for 20 years. I'm not going to do all of this now, Matthew. We're friends on Facebook. You know what I've written. What's interesting is reading. [[…]] It's a good thing I don't owe you too much. The Constitution also requires that we resolve this problem. Like another law, it also requires the Ministry of the Interior not to fail such a shameful rule of the type that the child of a murdered uniformed member of the internal affairs will receive such a shameful scholarship. If you'll excuse me, I know you'll tell me, according to the rules of procedure, that's not the point. In short, I can, but polls, please don't talk to me because I really know too much about this because it's going to be a methodological circle. Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u33	Before I give the word forward or reopen the debate, because obviously it will be, I just have to point out something: the replica is intended to clarify what was misunderstood by the interlocutor, not to present a debate. Please, Mr. Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u34	Thank you very much. I think we have another important point today to adopt the Government Act. And given what I'm listening to right now, it could take another two days, and we're not gonna make it to the end. It may be a blockade on the part of the coalition, from us not to confirm these mandates in this committee, but I can also understand that this is in some way the mandate of the SDS, that they do not want to set up this commission, because in order to force Mr Janez Janša into this commission, they simply want the status quo. That is why I would suggest one thing, if possible, but we can also take a ten-minute break to get the leaders of the parliamentary groups to get us at this stage until the Mandate-Election Commission decides what will happen with the mandate of Mr Janez Janša, this time withdraws Mr Janez Janša's SDS from the Commission, that any other leader will have such a Grimes. And then, if there is a solution, Mr Janez Janša will come to this committee without a problem and we have a functioning commission that is very important. Why do I want to connect in this way? We have indeed appointed Mr Cyril Ribič, our member, a constitutional lawyer, to this committee, but you have forgotten, Mr Grims, something else to say that we have also written and called on the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission to invite all parties who do not participate in the Mandate- voluntary Commission to this committee, that is, the SDS. That the SDS will also give its candidate as a constitutional lawyer. And I think that if we make a deal like this, we can make a deal, we can make a deal, but otherwise we can listen to another three hours of this performance and I don't think we're going anywhere. So I propose that we take a fifteen-minute recess, Mr President, so that we meet the leaders of the parliamentary groups, headed by you, try to reach an agreement, otherwise we will vote and we will stop this circus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u35	On the basis of this procedural proposal, I shall suspend until 11.30 a.m. We'll pick it up at 11:30.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u36	We continue the debate. I will allow another application for discussion and then we will go to a decision. [[advertising from the hall.]] Procedural, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u37	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. You have convened a meeting, Mr Han has requested this meeting and it would be appropriate to explain first what has been agreed at this meeting, not only to the members of the College, but also to us. Secondly, the proposal you have made to limit the debate is of a procedural nature and I do not think that the President of the National Assembly alone can decide on this. The debate may be concluded when there is no longer interest in the debate. Thus, all the Members we have discussed at this point still have the opportunity to apply for the debate until there are any other restrictions. And I suggest that the discussions that you have made possible by placing the item on the agenda do not limit, because it is clearly a major problem in this country. It is a problem of how the working bodies of the National Assembly will work. It is whether we are all equal before the Constitution or not, whether we have the same rights or not. And I propose that we hold a debate on this item for as long as it is of interest. It is not right that there is now no reason to restrict the matter. This is how the point is designed and I suggest that we make it so.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u38	Let me explain what was at the meeting, where you were gone, all the other representatives of the other parliamentary groups. What we have concluded is that this point needs to be completed today and then to provide a legal basis for us to form an appropriate commission despite the blockade. As far as the debate is concerned, I will allow this debate, but those who have already participated in the debate cannot apply again. Since there was no announcement of time in this case, each debater can discuss once every 5 minutes, and those who have already used 5 minutes have used up 5 minutes. Comrade Tank, is it procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I propose that you explain to me how this restriction applies to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. There is no such restriction in the Rules of Procedure. I said earlier that in the event that the point is designed as it is designed, there is a possibility of discussion after 5 minutes, but there is no limit to the number of applications for the debate after 5 minutes. And if you want to limit this matter, it is necessary to arrange it in a different way, not with the decision of the President of the National Assembly or with an agreement at a closed meeting. So far, this has been normal, and I suggest that you let the point run normally and that we hold discussions as possible in this case. Otherwise, replicas are not possible if you place them like this when you have already allowed the matter to take place this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u40	In view of the established practice at the points of the Commission’s mandate, it is only by allowing for a debate. This debate is a five-minute debate, but only one such debate. I refer to this kind of practice. Let's move on to the debate. Who? You have the floor, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If you refer to practice, then give us this practice on the table. I have been in this National Assembly for some time now, but there were no such restrictions in the discussions, unless there was a decision, on the specific decision of the General Meeting of the National Assembly. There's no such limit.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u42	I will give my word, because of this, to the one who first applied for this list and has not yet had this opportunity, this is Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u43	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! I did not expect that this point would have to be advertised, irrespective of the fact that it was presented in the way it was. I expected, given all the promises of a new way of working in this National Assembly, that it would not, however, go in this direction, that we would be the first Members to respect the law and procedures, the rules of procedure and everything else, not to mention the Constitution, which has been mentioned many times before, that we would be the first to respect it. And this National Assembly has shown several times that he does not care. At the first meeting, when it was a complication of whether Members could obtain a written opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service. This was some first test stone, how this coalition would work, and it was then that all the possibilities of not getting Members what belongs to us under the law, the rules of procedure and all other rules, as well as in practice, as the President recently said. Later there was a lot of talk about how you will respect the institutions of the rule of law, how you will respect all other institutions in the National Assembly and so on. You didn't respect it. You have talked about taking into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which is the only one competent in this House to present a position from the point of view of legislation. However, on the Mandate-Election Commission, you smoothly overrun this, most of which are lawyers from the largest parliamentary group, which you call on to do so, that institutions need to take into account the need to introduce a new approach and that the way of action needs to be changed. But you're acting essentially on the same principle as you've done so far. I now see why there is only one lawyer employed in normal companies and other institutions. Wherever there are two lawyers, there's nothing you can do about it. And we don't have a lawyer in this National Assembly, but we do have a legal and legal service, which is the one that gives us opinions, and you don't even respect it. I do not imagine working in this House in a way that, at every point or every law we adopt, we will obtain an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service of this Parliament. And when someone doesn't like it, he's going to order an external legal opinion and make a bigger profit to someone outside the circle of parliament. Again, I would say, the largest parliamentary group, which was filled with the mouth of a new approach, a new way of working and respecting all the institutions of this rule of law, and in particular the institutions that function in the National Assembly. With the first steps, you have completely demolished the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. And you just keep doing that. You keep saying that legislation may not be the best, but it needs to be respected. You don't respect her. The mandate-holder commission has granted mandates. You don't respect that. You make up all sorts of excuses to prevent this, and you give some cases, but not one on paper, because you know for yourself that there have been no such cases in parliamentary democracy so far. And you're playing the rules of the game that you've learned in your educational process, that you have to respect them, but you don't respect them. I was sure that this mandate would still be more tolerant and that the rules of the game would be respected, but I am no longer convinced that this would happen after the first or second meeting of the National Assembly. So I hope you will consider before this point is concluded and you ask yourself whether you are in this House to violate and amend the rules that are written and to adapt them, if necessary, or whether we will talk and decide in this House on the basis of those rules that have been in force and which are also written.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u44	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u45	Dear President! If you look at Rule 67 of the Rules of Procedure, paragraph 5, this would state the following. "The National Assembly may, on a proposal from the President or a Member, decide that the speaker may discuss the same matter only once." You have made this proposal, but the National Assembly has not decided on it. Thus, until the National Assembly decides that this issue can only be discussed once, it is possible to discuss this issue several times in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u46	That's the way it is. On the basis of Rule 69 of the Rules of Procedure, I am the one interpreting this Rules of Procedure. On the other side, please! [[…]] On the other hand, it is true that the practice so far, at least after what I have learned about this practice, has always been carried out at this Mandate-Election point in such a way that it has been a 5 minute debate, and this has been limited to every 5 minutes once. Please don't interfere with the word. That makes it possible to do two. One is to decide for myself this way, and I think I will do so, simply allow the debate only to those who have not yet discussed after 5 minutes within this point because it has not been announced in advance. If there is any objection to that, you will address it to the Rules of Procedure Commission and it will decide on that. By then, however, my decision will be in force, and this decision is that every Member who has not yet discussed this debate has a right to a five-minute debate. And so far, I have two other members to report. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko. Then, procedurally, who? Mag. Grimes. And a fellow moon. Let's go in this order.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u47	Thank you so much for saying that. Now that you have reached this parliamentary practice, I must tell you, the parliamentary practice that you have just explained is not. You've convened a meeting of the National Assembly with an A-point. There is absolutely no limit to the debate of Members under this item. It doesn't say that any Member can debate for five minutes, it doesn't say anything. No limit – no time limit. Mr President, however you take the right to interpret the rules of procedure giving you this, I have already told you that the debate of Members can be restricted only by a general meeting or by a plenary meeting of the National Assembly. There's no other way. The Rules of Procedure to the President, even if it is from the largest parliamentary group, the President of the National Assembly, do not give any right to direct or lead the work of the National Assembly voluntarily, as you have imagined. It's not possible. And the decision, if taken, will only apply from the decision onward. This cannot be explained in any other way. Otherwise, I suggest that you are more consistent with these items on the agenda, because this item, you can look at the invitation you have signed or the call you made, has no time limit on the debate, not on one Member, not on the Group of Members, not on anything else. And I suggest, Mr President, that you take a meeting of the National Assembly in accordance with the rules set out in the Rules of Procedure and that you do not create some of your sui generis practice because you do not actually have it in this area. I suggest that you do not do so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and also explain it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. More or less, the situation in which we are now set out in the Rules of Procedure. This is not something that would allow for an interpretation of the President, but is regulated by the Rules of Procedure. The President of the National Assembly, even if the President is a President, does not have the power to act on behalf of two-thirds of Members, as the Rules of Procedure have been adopted. This was adopted by two thirds. In order to conduct the meeting properly, it should be taken into account and interpreted in the manner in which the Rules of Procedure were adopted. Other things must be adopted by vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u48	On the basis of your procedural request, we will make a vote on the basis of Article 67, paragraph 5, of Article 67 on the limitation of the time of the individual speaker on this issue to five minutes. So we continue what it is, and with this, of course, we will have this base. I agree that in the nature of the matter, at least in the case of procedural matters, it is always such that the President's decision can be challenged, and at least at this point I will agree to this, not only agree, I have to agree to this because there is a legal basis for the whole matter to be resolved. The decision of the National Assembly will be the one to arrange for further discussion so that this debate can take place smoothly. I propose a decision to discuss this issue on the agenda so that an individual speaker, an individual Member or a Member can only be discussed once. But the limit is still 5 minutes, the one that's real because it's always like this when the time is not announced. We're voting. There were 77 votes in favour of Members and Members, 51 votes against 25. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 25.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. In this debate, it is possible for an individual Member to discuss only once. If we go back to the list now he has the word, Mr. Janez Janša. Please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u49	Although I am a newcomer, I think we have one procedural problem here, because Mr President should once again trigger, which one of those we have not spoken to would like to speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u50	This will be done further. For the time being, we are finishing the list that we have before us, and Mr Janez Janša has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u51	Thank you for your word. When you normally ran the election campaign, I was disabled. And as one of the fellow Members of Parliament had said before, there was an article jumping out of every pasta where I was muddy, and I couldn't defend myself. For now, I can and will replicate anyone who talks about my mandate or about me. I hope at least I won't be confined to that. The whole country is actually at the start of a very important project. A new government is forming. It's not pink. The just confirmed president of the government called him ill. And here you are, those who now have scissors and a canvas in your hands, dealing with something that you shouldn't even be doing. If we actually had the rule of law that Mr Cerar was talking about here, then we should respect this right and not abuse it. I was legally convicted. I didn't have any government functions. And when I ran for office, I ran for office in this situation. Voters knew this situation, and they just gave me exactly the same percentage of votes that my colleague used to say I should have. But it doesn't matter. It is important that double criteria are reintroduced here. I've been legally convicted. I had to respect my judgment, otherwise it was forced on the day I was appointed, I went to prison. I got out of prison this morning. We complain, the court postpones the decision, we cannot influence the situation, we simply have to take it into account. On the other hand, there is a situation with a mandate. This one was confirmed, you want to challenge him, but there is no decision on this challenge. In the end, there will be a Constitutional Court. And until then, this mandate is legally binding. And you don't respect these powers. As a citizen, I must respect the legitimacy of another institution and you do not respect the legitimacy of your own institution. So, what kind of example do you set for citizens and citizens? If my mandate is revoked, I will also be deprived of my mandate on this committee. Until then, this is a full mandate and you have no right to restrict it to anything. And now for the right reasons. When Mira Cerar's Party had a convention, I saw some faces there that I knew well. These are the faces of people who followed us through Ljubljana's inn in 1988, like the last generation of State Security agents, or Udba, with names and surnames. Then they made a variety of careers, and today they're obviously deciding in the party that won the most in the last parliamentary elections, whatever they were. And here's the interest in these services operating without supervision. Here's the interest, not in my mandate. But in listening unsupervisedly, it follows and abuses this most sensitive institution that any country has. Next, when I get to the word, I hope to explain some of the worst abuses that have been detected in the operation of these services since 1990. We can also talk about that time before, but there was, of course, no parliamentary supervision. Now, by constitution and by law, it exists, but it's being prevented. A very similar debate, as is now taking place here, followed the 1992 elections when the so-called fall of communists from power proved to be a farce. And once the government was back on track, I'm going to say the same colors as the previous regimes, even then it was trying to prevent the establishment of a commission to oversee secret services, and that attempt was not successful. If this attempt of yours is successful today, then it is a sign for the entire Slovenian public that this disease, mentioned earlier by the new Prime Minister of the Government, is even more difficult than it was 22 years ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u52	The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u53	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I propose, of course, that in this House of Democracy we take into account the opinions of those institutions which are called upon to give certain opinions. In this case, in the case put by the Commission of Mandate concerning John Janša and his mandate, the Legislative and Legal Service gave an opinion – an opinion which is not taken into account by the current or future coalition. A opinion he doesn't want to follow. The opinion that Janez Janša has a mandate, based on an expert opinion, is that in this case there is no provision in Article 9 of the Law on Members, because this person has run for the elections and, ultimately, the electorates knew in advance who they elect. This opinion is legally given from the perspectives of different assessments – we have a grammatical explanation, we have a substantive explanation, we have a systemic explanation, we have a proportionality principle – and there is a question everywhere that the withdrawal of the mandate of Janez Janša could constitute a violation of the Constitution. The mandate-holders and the president do not wish to take this opinion into account, so they set up ad hoc committees with ad hoc experts who will give an opinion – likely to be expected – contrary to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, so that the Mandate-Election Commission would have the opportunity to simply delete the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. And of course this is done by the party that won the elections and swears to the rule of law. Her president swears on the rule of law, but here everything is done, looking for different opinions, looking for different experts who already tell on television what their opinion is, they will write just an account, 5, 10, 15 thousand euros, and the matter is clear. They've already said it in advance. And since they have already said in advance, it is the Mir Cerar Party that has taken exactly what is in advance, if you want, on the 3rd programme that tells you what his opinion is, and you will get that opinion. You can save 10 or 5 or as many as 1,000 euros because this opinion has already been made public. On the other hand, I repeat, everything has been done to prevent the Security and Intelligence Supervisory Commission from being set up. And I, ladies and gentlemen, do not believe that Janez Janša is the reason. And here I'm wondering who's leading the Mir Cerar Party. Who takes decisions at the Mir Cerar Party if he swears to rule of law on the one hand, on the other hand he does not want to set up a commission that would just give people the rule of law. And, excuse me, I propose that you actually revise, correct your decision, and set up a commission that is urgently needed for civilian surveillance of intelligence services. There's no other way. We cannot live in an illegal state, we cannot have repressive services, intelligence and anti-intelligence services without civilian supervision. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in democracy! Even in the totalitarian system, these services had some control, of course, by the then ruling Union of Communists or the Communist Party. We will leave control here — to whom? Who's gonna control it? Ask yourself who will supervise and answer the people, citizens and citizens who will supervise these services or the actions they perform.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u54	Mr. Janez Janša, procedurally, I presume?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u55	No, no, my colleague in front of me was talking about my mandate and I'd like to complete it. I have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u56	Okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u57	Just like a colleague to a colleague she didn't appoint. And I was directly named, so [[…]] Mr Andrej Šircelj spoke about the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. It is now very important in this opinion that we remember, although I think no one has forgotten this, because it has not been so long since those words were said that the newly sworn President of the Government said, the Party of Peace Cerar will respect the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on this mandate. The same sentence, perhaps with a word of difference, was spoken by the new president of the National Assembly. We will respect the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Then the opinion was obviously slightly different than they imagined, and now this opinion is not respected. We have the Prime Minister of the Government, who is still forming the government, and he has already swallowed the word at this first stage. What credibility does this company now have? Not to mention the President of the National Assembly, who could afford even less in terms of his office. He commits to the word. The text of the President of the Government shall also be binding under international law. Those of you who studied this, you know you can't say something today, and then you don't fit it, and you forget, and there's something else. And now you're going farso with some committee of experts, "independent" experts. The SD has put forward its former president on this committee, Mr Ribičič. He's an independent expert now. I must say that he has a lot of experience and mandates when he leads the only party to rule without an election, he has a lot of practice with mandates, absolutely. Just with what? Like with the Secret Service, where the political chief of Udba was at the time. Super independent opinion. Not to mention Mr Pirnat, who has now received a state fee for 20 years because he was breaking Demos and the Slovenian Democratic Union, and so on. And there's no money I wouldn't charge. So politically compromised and paid opinions that apply as much as you give them the euro will now [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u58	This wasn't a replica. Because it was not really clear what the previous speaker was referring to. Please, those who wish to enforce the replica, take into account what a replica actually means. Dr. Mitja Horvat has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u59	Thank you, President, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I'm glad Mr. Tanko is quoting me. He also quoted me in the previous session, of course torn out of context, as I must say here, in this case, that we have said that we will wait for the decision of the Mandate-Electorial Commission not for the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. It's nice of you to talk about the constitution. Nice of you to know some articles of the Constitution. It would be nice to use them in full. As you know, the rights established by the Constitution may be limited by laws. And this one is limited to the law, to the Law of Members. The opinion of the Legislative-Legal Service which we received was based, as I said, and you will also be able to check whether I also said that on the Mandate-Electorial Commission or not, was based only on the basis that the elections erase the legal consequences set out in the Law on Members. Therefore, whether or not the mandate terminates after the decision of the National Assembly, and therefore we decide only on those who are sentenced to more than 6 months after the election and the duration of the mandate. I drew attention to Article 5, which also raises questions before the elections themselves, which is why I stand firm in the position that the Law on Members regulates all questions concerning Members, including those of the subject. That is why we have given all the parliamentary groups participating in the Mandate-Election Commission the opportunity to appoint their member to this committee, precisely because they would not only take political decisions and avoid the perceptions we have been receiving all the time. Ad personam, I'm sorry, you spoke, we're talking about a principle question, because it's a sample case, because we haven't had a case like this before, and that's why we're so sensitive about it. We expect that the question of restricting the mandate or extending the question, which is, of course, correctly recorded, but unfortunately, in our position from the wrong starting point, that the elections erase the consequences laid down in the Law on Members in Article 9, that the mandate of a Member who is legally sentenced to more than six months shall cease, is stated after no decision has been taken, and I would kindly ask any interlocutor to note that no withdrawal is made because the law does not provide for withdrawal, but it is the consequences arising under the law itself. Because we are sensitive to this issue, we have not, of course, intervened in matters that we must not deal with too uniformly and in a uniform manner right now. Confirmation of the mandate means confirmation of the decision of the State Election Commission. No mandate was disputed because there was no appeal concerning any mandate and the National Assembly had nothing to decide on. The National Assembly does not decide on this issue. However, the Commission shall, of course, inform the National Assembly whether any Member has terminated his term of office. As Mr Tanko has already correctly quoted me, I also believe that there are irreparable consequences, which is why we are addressing this issue delicately, as we say, not ad to the people, but because it will certainly be in the future example. As far as participation in this committee is concerned, it is precisely the same question – the irreparable consequences of being a member of the commission that we are accepting today, someone who, by law, has terminated his mandate. That is why we stand in the position which I have expressed at the outset that it is necessary to wait first for a decision as to whether or not Member John Janša will terminate his term of office under Article 9 of the Law on Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u60	First, Mr. Janez Janša spoke. Replica or [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u61	Yes, of course, a replica. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u62	Procedurally? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u63	a replica because a colleague is talking about waiting for a decision. [[…]] Then I'll go home today and wait for the Supreme Court's decision and then the Constitutional Court. So if your logic is correct, then I don't have the status of a prisoner. Are we gonna wait or what?Oh, my God! Can I go home today then? Or is it one logic for you, because you are the Member of the Party of Mir Cerar, and one for me, because I am the Member of the Slovenian Democratic Party. You can explain that to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u64	The replica refers to your discussion, which the colleague misunderstood. And that wasn't a replica. It would be a replica if Dr. Horvat quoted you or quoted you as saying it and misunderstood it and then wanted to correct it. It's a replica of our rules of procedure. [[advertising from the hall]] I'm asking for peace in the hall. Now I understand slowly why I have this here, but I won't use it. Procedural magus first. Spread out. A replica of what? [[advertising from the hall]] Please. He's got an advantage in the process.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I suggest you read Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure to take, if it is difficult, first a few minutes before you decide, because it says here, I will read: "Every debater has the right to reply to the debate of another debater (replication) as far as this debate relates to his debate." And what was, as Mr Horvat discussed, directly referred to the ad person to the debate of the Member who had previously spoken. And I warn you that this is how the sui generis explains what a replica is like, in this case, in such a special way, it doesn't work. There is a rich parliamentary practice. We know her well when we are Members of several mandates. Any person may apply to a replica in the event that anything has been misinterpreted, misapplied, misapplied in the debates of Members. This is also about interpretation. And only in that part of Mr Horvat's leave of absence did his colleague Janš replicate as well as the rules of procedure. Nothing went beyond misinterpretation or misinterpretation, nothing at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u66	Mr. Shircel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u67	Thank you very much. When Mr Horvat mentioned that some people did not fully understand the Constitution and that, of course, the Constitution must be fully understood. I think he was wrong, of course. This is confirmed, of course, by the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which speaks of Article 9 of the Law on Members, of which he has also spoken, and of which I have also spoken. And here, when we speak of a grammatical interpretation of the provision, the Legislative-Legal Service says that a Member shall terminate his term of office if, at the time when the Member is sentenced to an unconditional sentence of imprisonment of more than six months. This was also the way in which the third indent of Article 9(1) of the Law on Members has been enforced so far. Such enforcement of the cited provisions of the Law on Members, which would also extend to a person who, as a convicted person, has run for election – Mr Janez Janša has run for election – but it is questionable, but can also be constitutionally disputed in terms of the protection of electoral law, 43rd Article of the Constitution in its entirety, in terms of the institutions of criminal law provided for in the Penal Code, the legal consequences of the conviction and in terms of the principle of equality, which commands that substantively different factual situations should also be regulated in a different legal manner. The moment when a Member is legally sentenced to a non-conditional sentence of more than six months is a significant difference between the situation governed by Article 9 of the Law on Members and the situation under consideration. In other words, the Law-Legal Service here says that this can be constitutionally disputed in terms of several provisions of the Constitution, not only in terms of one provision of the Constitution. Then, of course, we also have the principle of proportionality, which I will also talk about if I am misunderstood or if any Member misinterprets me. Indeed, there is also a fact that there is no reason for the Member to cease his mandate to that Member who was elected in the elections. That is why, of course, my replica is justified, I think, Mr President, and I will also put it in the next if I am misunderstood.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u68	Okay. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u69	Look, I'm going to avoid interpretations and legal opinions on purpose. But I will read what the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has done – where you do not hope and, of course, delay things – and what the European Court of Human Rights says about this. I will begin with the opinion of Constitutional Judge Sovdat, who says, "with the confirmation that the candidate has the right to participate in the political struggle for power, based on the election outcome, the vote of the electorate has grown to a new quality, into a obtained mandate. Therefore, in such a case, the passive electoral chamber, which is a human right guaranteed by Article 43(2) of the Constitution, also covers the right to exercise the mandate thus obtained, i.e. the full and unlimited exercise of the mandate. Ladies and gentlemen, you are working against the Constitution. Second, if anyone thinks it's just a separate opinion. The Constitutional Court stated in its decision UI 317/11 in 2011: "Passive electoral rights ensure to an individual that, under the same conditions, he can compete for the election of the elected state local authorities. Passive electoral rights also mean the right to be elected, which means the right of an individual to obtain a mandate in accordance with the rules and rules governing the division of mandates and on the basis of electoral results. The third aspect of passive electoral law means the right to exercise the mandate obtained in elections." Let me add again. So enforcement is complete and unlimited. Ladies and gentlemen, you are deliberately working against the Constitution. But those of you who have constitutional knowledge are lawyers, and you're building universal nonsense. And you know that well, given what I just quoted. Well, maybe the most important thing about this whole story. I have already mentioned the European Court of Justice. Well, now look at this. The position of the European Court of Human Rights, expressed in at least three cases, is that Article 3 of Protocol No. 1 h The Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, ladies and gentlemen, is a fundamental instrument to which you have so many times invoked and ratified and published by Slovenia in the Official Journal of 1994, which regulates the right to free elections, also contains the right to exercise the mandate obtained. If anyone doubts, ladies and gentlemen, it was very interesting when I went to look at these judgments, because you have them online, they are all available, it is clear from them that it is totally unacceptable and grave interference in human rights, any attempt to seize or limit the obtained mandate, once it has been granted in relation to all the circumstances that have been known before, which were known to voters and voters. Go and read this. Please read it. Not only do you do the obvious unconstitutional work, you work against fundamental human rights, consciously, and those who have legal knowledge, even in the shame of the legal profession, no matter what nonsense you now speak here. And you, Mr President, and Mr Cerar, who both have a certain legal knowledge and who have both said that we are waiting for the opinion of the Legal Service of the National Assembly, I ask now where your word is. Where is that strong ethics, that strong oath of the rule of law we witnessed even now? However, when you are here not only before the opinion of the legal service, which is why, Mr President, one of the Members and Members has already sobbed in one of the premises here in this National Assembly, we have heard of this, as President or signed under this paper, because it is a disgrace and you would be obliged to protect your employees, but not to completely devalue them by allowing the establishment of a pharsic commission that practically cancels the service of the National Assembly and its profession. Where is everything you've sworn to and what you've had so much to say? The only solution would be to stop this immediately, to stop the farce with the commission, to call today the Kosovo Independent Commission, and to end at the historical dump where it will end with your possible resolution or termination of the mandate of Janez Janša or the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, most likely, given what I have read to you, and in the European Court of Human Rights. And you know it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u70	The word has magic. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly! You are the President of this High Council, the first of the same and the first of August, in this Chamber, you have decided that the mandate of your fellow Member, Mr Janez Janša, is indisputable. You confirmed the decision of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, you voted in favour and you took a decision by this decision, which told all Slovenes and Slovenians that in these elections all the mandates fully carry out their task. Before you got involved, you made some kind of lapsus, we can say that the first lapsus, given that you are the new Member, the new President of Parliament, can be excused. But at this point, perhaps the President of Parliament can afford just one such lapsus. However, we are obviously following the situation where the limitations of both replicas and performances in the National Assembly will only continue because a party does not have the same position as a legal lobby in a party. But at the end of the day, Parliament is a place where different positions are faced and decisions are made on the basis of the majority. However, decisions can only be made if all who have their views have had the opportunity to present these views in a cultural and normal way. And tell me one member of the Slovenian Democratic Party who has not carried out either his words or his replica. He was gone, and he won't be, because we are faithfully carrying out this task. We have actually come to the true heart of the problem with a procedural proposal from colleague Han. He suggested that you withdraw your proposal and we appoint an appropriate commission, in some way to place the responsibility of someone else. You don't want to take control of intelligence, and then you turn the blame on whoever you're reading to. That's the legal logic we're following in court again. You tear down someone's house illegally, he sues you, then you press charges and then with friendly ties in court, then focus the debate on the lawsuit and say, "Yes, drop the suit, and we will also withdraw the complaint." Clearly, this logic is what you want to bring to life in this high congregation. Now, watch out. We've previously listened to the debate of the Head of the Mandate-Voluntary Commission. He faced the interpretation of the laws himself, in the capacity of the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission. He said, "I'm standing by myself..." And explain to my colleague why Janša has to end his term of office. He said, on a direct question on the Mandate-Election Commission, if he felt that the legal opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service was relevant: "No." And then demanded paid legal opinions. Among other things, the lawyer you hired received €7.2 million from public funds in 10 years for legal opinions as you would like. But even more frightening are the words of the President of Parliament. Indeed, in the introduction to this debate, he said that they would try to provide a legal basis in order to enable the Commission to function. Provide a legal basis to enable the Commission to operate. So you will change the legal basis to allow the commission to function. However, they did not allow a powerful member of the congregation to do the work that goes with the rules of procedure, the law, and the constitution. The right path is only a legal path, and if you find it so unbelievable: a) take a decision, decide on the mandate of your colleague Janša and b) instead of discussing the matter, submit a law that will regulate this situation and we will have no further discussion. You have a responsibility. Do you have that wish? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u72	I'm opening a list for further discussion. Mr. Roberto Battelli has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, what will be produced by a group of experts, which is to be created on the basis of the decision of the Mandate-Electorial Commission on the initiative of one of the members, will continue to be the opinion. This will be an opinion that will not be legally binding. And I don't think it's possible to restrict anyone's mandate on the basis of waiting for this opinion. That's the way it is right now. Forcing a group of Members to replace a member in a working body has no legal basis either. It's political will, political desire. It can be represented, it can vote, but no one is committed to these things. Nor is the SDS bound to replace its member in this case. If you allow me, it also seems extremely unfair for someone with a certain majority to make certain decisions and then translate them into someone who has a different opinion and opposes these decisions that they are to blame for the situation. I've had the opportunity to meet people who have experienced such things. But we all have a chance to read how certain regimes functioned in connection with accusing someone of what you were doing yourself. These are methods. It would be good to say that we do not approach such logics that actually mean at the heart of desecration of the dignity of human beings. Disgusting things are being done, and this is a major nuisance that the legal order now in force in Europe and the rest of the civilised world expressly prohibits, prohibits, prohibits, and prohibits such practices and logics. And it even moves into some democratically elected bodies, which then make a majority decision. So here we are dealing with a case that is special, which is strange, which can be disputed, however, but until justice, including the Constitutional Court, decides on such matters, it is better and healthier for me to decide on such important matters on the basis of political will and political opinions, which can be a very dangerous precedent for the future. Take away the mandates without any complaints – indeed, the Commission then decides whether everything was all right, according to the electoral commission's report. Why just that? Since nothing else is taken into account, it cannot be taken into account in order to limit the mandate and not to confirm it. That's why it's only up to him. But here we mostly explain politically everything else. I'm afraid of that situation. For principle reasons, I will not support [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Thank you. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u74	Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u75	Thank you, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! Today we are dealing with a topic and a question that is not really a task at all and that concerns us Members who are not concerned with the National Assembly. We are acting with a mandate regarding the mandate of one of our fellow Members. I have great respect for the government coalition for this extraordinary academic occupation with great knowledge, but I would say that today's session has somehow shown a path where the government coalition will lead, in which direction. The President, the candidate or now the mandate-holder has already spoken about the rule of law, the effectiveness of our country, the effectiveness of the judiciary. But those are the words. I, who is an operational man, will call it – a lot of academic speech without action. Fellow Members, of course citizens and citizens, prepare for a lot of academic talk and no action and no action. That's what today's session shows, and that shows the way. I very well agree with what Mr Han has said, this is not a topic for today's session, but on the other hand, I find that the government coalition is committed to this academic decommissioning and thus continues to push back the major and major problems our country has. But there is not enough of these problems, and we will all feel them. I would just say that the Constitutional Court should decide, then all these dilemmas that we have here today, and all these debates will be meaningless. Actions, where are the acts? Let's make a decision! I'd say those super smart academics don't have the balls to decide. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u76	Sir, can you please? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u77	Let them decide. [[…]] It is necessary to move on to action, not to lose and to lose in this national assembly of hours and hours and hours, each one will defend his own right. We are not Members here today to deal with this issue and to resolve this issue. This is not our mission, and this is not our mission. For this we have a system in place in the country, a framework of institutions which are responsible for carrying out their work. And let these institutions do their job. Why in some cases they could have decided the second day, the second day. And this is where months and months are lingering, because this matter is designed purposefully, so that time is lost to conceal certain cruel realities that are in our country. And I ask that we do not deal with topics that are not our task, and that the institutions responsible for this do their work properly and for what they are in charge and ultimately they are paid for.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u78	I would like to request further discussion that we be a little more careful when using certain terms. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u79	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The division of this House is indeed strong, and this is most evident on the Commission for the Control of Security and Intelligence Services, which requires the participation of the opposition and the coalition. If there is no such cooperation, then this Commission simply cannot act and does its work. The coalition wants Mr Janez Janša not to participate in this committee. The SDS of this proposal will certainly never change. And as it turns out, we won't be able to get to this commission for a very long time, but the intelligence services are looking forward to laughing at us.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u80	Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u81	Thank you so much for saying that. At least in the first part of the debate, I would like to recall some practice of the US Supreme Court because the practice of the US Supreme Court has a number of effects on the Court of Human Rights judicatures in Strasbourg. Let me say, I think that colleague Klemen Jaklič also said at one of the last petition sessions of the Commission what general electoral law means in a serious democratic country. It is also extremely strongly linked to the media, namely that the public must be informed of any candidate who will run for any position. As a result, the pre-condition for the functioning of democracy is an extremely strong influence of quality media, so that the media space is somehow represented correctly. I could talk about it for an hour today. But what am I talking about? I am talking about the purpose of the Law on Members. The MP has to step down because he disappointed the voters because they were not aware of his situation before this function took place, because they were misled during the electoral campaign and have in fact made an incorrect decision. This is important. That is why this Article of the Law on Members is so important and means that a Member must withdraw when he is legally sentenced to more than six months in prison. It's that voter disappointment. In the case of colleague Janez Janša, this did not happen. My friend John Janša, while we were all performing in ties, went to television encounters, had to be at peace in prison. I even think they brought him in with a combined vehicle to court once, so people got even worse, I can sort of say, in a rumor, an opinion about him. Unfortunately, the judgment on behalf of the people, also confirmed in the Supreme Court, proved to be one of the great mistrusters of the people. We have a mandate within the people, a great mandate with a great deal of vote, with great support, with the strong legitimacy that Janez Janša has brought to the National Assembly, which is the basis of democracy, which gives us the input of democracy, thus giving us an extremely strong legitimacy that he can have. And colleagues and colleagues, the interpretation of the Article of the Law on Members is another very, very much, I can say, poor arguments. I expected from a lot of you a better argument, a better view of the practice of the Supreme Court of America, including the courts for human rights, into international constitutional law. And here I am, I must admit, very disappointed. There's something else I'd like to say in the second row. If your decision is fulfilled today, you will reject Janez Janša's candidacy in one of the committees, which means that you have completed one push on the button with the National Assembly and we have resumed with the Communist Assembly. It's a congregational system. I will appoint you as a delegate, not as Members. Unfortunately. And also you, President of the National Assembly, I call upon you to be aware that you will no longer be President of the National Assembly, but you will be President of the Assembly. This is an extremely painful, markedly poor knowledge of the practices of long-standing Western democracies, and shows a serious debate that the first reform of justice and the reform of the school system, especially in law schools and in other socio-humanist universities, should be the first reform. That's a sign of extreme modesty. Exquisite modesty, dear fellows! I will not go looking at your Cobiss base, your contributions in an international legal environment, but I will explicitly just focus on this part of my.debate. Respectable colleagues and colleagues, if they were already setting up a commission, should be some experts who would give their opinion. Dear President of the Commission on Elections, we would set up a commission after these elections, when Janez Janša, as a lawfully convicted person, received such a large percentage, made this commission within the framework of the judiciary, would immediately elect the most visible legal experts who actually have a valid one, including with the help of international experts, and would say what is wrong with our justice. Such an untrustworthy woman, just as Janez Janš’s case received in these elections, shows a total lack of confidence in justice. And we should make such a commission somewhere in another institution. And look, once again, I call on you, all those who today will renounce John Janša's work in the Commission for the Control of Security and Intelligence, where in the past we have had a number of problems, precisely because a whole range of individuals from the former totalitarian system have remained in this service, you will, in fact, press the button to make the Communist Assembly out of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u82	Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u83	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I've been in these rooms for quite some time now, so I'm in the National Assembly. I have a few miles and I can actually make some kind of comparison between, say, the beginning of this mandate and between previous mandates. We've started this term extremely strangely. Not just extremely strange, extremely strangely, we started this term after the early elections. Why? When I listened to the debate or even in the pre-election campaign, Mir Cerar's party ensured that higher political, ethical and other standards would take place in this national assembly. And we're a long way from that. You prove that every time. When we had our first meeting of the National Assembly, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group or its leader only requested a written legal opinion on a particular matter. And what have you done to all those who say that new standards should be introduced in this National Assembly? On the contrary, you voted against. They also voted against all lawyers sitting in the Mir Cerar party. Against the fact that a parliamentary group that has been elected to Parliament and must act in accordance with the laws, regulations and the Constitution and also with legal opinions, you have denied it the right to obtain this legal opinion in writing. That was the first thing. That's another thing. I would never have thought that I would start my fourth term or that we would start with the question whether a Member who has been elected, like all of us sitting here today, can do his job by emissary or not. And this Member, who, by the way, is not the most important, but, by the way, has received the highest number of votes in this National Assembly. For comparison only, Alenka Bratušek’s party, or Alliance of Alenka Bratušek, all four Members received half the votes of Janez Janša. All four together. The United Left also received fewer votes, all Members together, than Janez Janša. But today it is these Members that you are deciding and talking about the controversial mandate of John Janša. Instead of waiting, as you say in accordance with your paradigm of higher, ethical, moral, even legal standards. If we acted accordingly, we would wait for the Constitutional Court and everyone else to react. And today you want to make that decision. More! You want to put this on the backs of lawyers, but they're paid anyway. And the result is clear. Why now, today, here in this place do you not accept responsibility and say that the mandate of John Janša is disputed and you will take it away from him? And we'd get rid of everything. Why don't you do it, but you keep saying that you have to do it? You don't do anything but stall. My colleague Möderndorfer has also been a Member for three years, but what he really learned skillfully is misleading, misleading. And this time he did the same thing. We cannot compare the situation of Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš with the situation of Mr Janez Janša when we are talking about the case of this Security and Intelligence Supervisory Commission. When the denial of Mrs Tavš's approval of this committee took place, this commission was already established and the supervision functioned normally. It's been set up for months. The situation here is different. You make it impossible to control security and intelligence services, which are extremely important, and you are very well aware of that and you know that. Mr Janez Janša has previously made an excellent argument that it is not a problem, but a problem in the background. So what are you gonna do? I hope by today's decision that you won't make a decision based on your feelings, I say I love someone, I don't love someone, and so on, but on the basis of the laws, the rules of procedure and the constitution. This is what I expect today mainly from all the lawyers who are sitting here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u84	Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u85	Thank you so much for saying that, President. I have already discussed on the Commission's mandate in this direction, when the President of the Commission on Elections discussed that not all the eminent lawyers from the right perspective have considered the matter, that the Law-Legal Service has not looked at all aspects of this, and it seems strange to me then that Mr Horvat has said that only what Article 9 of the Act states applies to him, that the mandate ends and ends and ends. A prominent former constitutional judge said he hoped that the country would not be able to afford a third shame. The first time John Jansha was convicted. Second, how he's being held in prison. It is a third shame, however, that his term of office should be revoked. The Constitution is a clear, passive electoral right conferred by the Constitution. When Janez Janša ran, there was no objection, no one complained about the candidacy. He could have run for office, he had been elected and, following the constitution, he must be allowed to exercise this passive right to the end, it is said, to carry out his mandate. Reputable constitutional judges said it was just a legal void. Those who proposed the Constitution at the time allowed the legislator to determine by law that the convicted person should not run for office, but the legislator did not. We don't have a law on that. It is necessary to adopt such a law and this will continue to apply from the adoption of this law. But you can't explain now that we don't have a law that can suddenly end a mandate on the basis of a law and go through constitutional law. Then, Mr Horvath, you denied this position of the Legal and Legislative Service and said that the Legal and Legal Service had not yet looked at Article 5 of the Law on Members, which speaks, but you read the first paragraph of this Article, which I believe is another. That if someone is running for office, they should not be restricted to the right to run for election, to have the right to free leave. I'm not a lawyer, but that's how I understand this law. Now you continue in this sense, because Janez Janša is a member of an organ, a commission that is very important, you have taken advantage of this opportunity not to set up this commission because Janez Janša, on our part, is proposed as a member of this commission. So, some institute that's very important is not going to be set up because you've taken advantage of that possibility. What are the arguments, however, Janša has already said that there is a practice from earlier times, perhaps we have not yet gotten rid of this shadow. And you, as many lawyers as you are in your client, use these methods. colleague Han also stated at that time on the committee that it seemed to him that this was unrelated, that the Constitutional Court would be in a simple manner [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] the decision in favour of colleague Janša. I think it's a shame this time we're going. Let us set up this commission so that the Assembly will function normally [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u86	The word is Mrs. Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm not a lawyer myself, but I feel more and more like more than a lawyer, it's really bad. I also think that many of you are very happy that John Janša is sitting in the National Assembly, so that at least certain things can be very delayed, he will probably soon be responsible for the failure of the government or even for the failure of the government to form quickly and so on. And if you work so slowly in the government, in the coalition, then we don't get along well. Like I said, I'm not a lawyer, so some things just aren't clear to me from a pure farm of logic. Mr Janša has been recorded, confirmed as a candidate in the elections and legally elected. At the end of 1. 8. Its mandate was also approved in 2014. We all know that we have reached the conclusion of the Mandate-Electorial Commission at the table, where it explicitly states that no mandate is disputed, but at the same time colleagues are starting to speak at the same meeting about the mandate at issue. I don't know how you're going to vote on the Mandate-Election Commission if you once voted that the mandate isn't controversial, but now you're going to change your mind and vote differently. You didn't take into account the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, you just didn't like it. You've invited new lawyers, like I said, to mess the floor even hotter. Mr. Janez Janša has been elected to two other committees. Please explain to me the reasons why his mandate is not disputed in those two committees or in the Commission on Public Finance Control and the Committee on Foreign Policy. What's the difference? Why is everything okay there and not here? In the meantime, your President, Mr Cerar, spoke about raising moral values and so on, but at the same time it is being done differently. I must say that we have heard many arguments today, why we should set up a commission, why the mandate is not disputed, on our part, as if you were not in Parliament, but most of you are. Nobody says anything, we don't hear any argument from you. Besides, let us wait until we work slowly, to be gentle because it is a sensitive topic. Yeah, how long do you plan on being gentle, how long will you be without action, without conclusions, without any decisive action? So far, no one has confirmed, in writing or otherwise, that the mandate has ended or that anything is at stake — no one. There's only one assumption that something's wrong. The same as in the judgment — on the basis of some assumptions, you have condemned some of the indictments. Please state with concrete arguments why you do not want the Security Intelligence Supervisory Commission to be set up? Otherwise, we can also assume that it is some typical Slovenian fosjo, because someone got 6 000116, and the other one did not collect so much, or that you will have an excuse not to work or that the government is not doing well because John Janša is sitting in Parliament. So please give an argument why you do not want this commission or why you have confirmed your membership in the Commission on Public Finance Control and in the Committee on Foreign Policy, Mr Janez Janša. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u88	Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Battelli came by earlier. I am always pleased with his performances because I think that, after this long parliamentary practice, his words mean something. And I hope you listened to him, too. Otherwise, this issue of the dispute over the mandate, the withdrawal of the mandate, the membership, the non-membership of the Commission for the supervision of security and intelligence services, has begun, I think, Mr Möderndorfer. Mr Möderndorfer was the leader of the parliamentary group once the largest party, however, then he switched to another party, and he also sat in that important place there. He even had an election campaign, he had all the instruments at his disposal, and he collected 701 votes. This person now requires the removal of the mandate and the vote on all these matters to the person who could not be in the elections because he was in prison and received 6,000166 votes, if I have seen them correctly. It means ten times more. Mr. Möderndorfer, where is your morality? I don't think so. Let's move on. Speaking of competence, it's also in the coalition agreement or in the draft, which you already have. Who do you think is the most competent person in this room to sit on that committee? Who? The one with experience in the previous regime. But double experience. On the one hand, those who were persecuted were controlled, and on the other hand those who were also responsible for the operation of all these services. And twice, five years together. Mr. Horvath, I think I just said my last name, as you know, you too, Doctor, I think it's the right one if I'm not wrong. Look, make up your mind and say, "Let's go procedurally to the Mandate-Volution Commission." Then take your term. Do you have those eggs? Then do it. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u90	Mr. Gorenak, I said this word is not to be used [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u91	Spine, I'm fixing. So have a spine and do it. And don't hide for those people who have already given their opinion, but now you're going to pay a few thousand euros. One of these people, who is supposed to be on this committee, I called on the phone years ago and said, "You know, I have a problem like that – because I led the police's staff service – _"I want to do it anyway." And he said, "Wow, you know, our institute is now representing those who are against you. Well, yeah, but if we can settle for a few hundred thousand tolars then more, we'll cancel that too." So much for lawyers. And I don't want to insult you or anyone else. So don't order an opinion from people who have already told you. And you don't spend money. Have a pardon, spine, and do it. Although, I am sure, given that the vast majority of the members of Mir Cerar's party are not advertised at all, if we now went to a secret vote in the booth, the result would be against what the leader of the parliamentary group has proposed. Now I'm asking you where you're from and who's telling you to do this? Who's complaining? Who are these gray powers? That's the thing. There is something else to remind the Prime Minister, the President of Parliament, that we will respect the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. Why don't you respect him? Why are you wasting your money? Why would Pirnat and those, they take away a few thousand euros? He's already told us what he thinks on TV. Look, there's another aspect of this thing, and then I'm done. I said before, which one of us has a guarantee that he's not being controlled by the criminal police about any of the things? Who can tell me that Mr Tonin, Dobovšek, Dolinšek, Mahník, Kopmajer, Germany, Trček and so on, which are also visible members, are not controlled. So why can they be? Look, take matters into your own hands, and start dealing with the things that elected you to vote for. This is to save this country. Save this country and don't do what's bad for this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u92	I wonder how you were understood about this replica? [[advertising from the hall]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u93	The difference between all of us and John Janša is that we are not legally convicted prisoners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u94	Mr. Luka Moon has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u95	Thank you for your word. I'd like to point out that we've been wasting our time here for three hours and we're talking about a problem that's been wrongly set. None of the non - SDS speakers have questioned John Janš’s mandate today. No one denies him any authority to have John Janša, who was confirmed by our mandate here on 1 August and participates in the debates, no one gives him the authority to participate and sit on committees and commissions, all of whom are considered to have the autonomy of the Group of Members to decide on their membership. This does not apply to the Commission for the supervision of security and intelligence services, as this Commission is an exception. Here 46 Members and Members must be confirmed by the Commission and its composition depends on whether we confirm it or not. And we're basically talking about this. So, are we going to confirm this commission in this composition? I simply suggest that this blemish, which we have been monitoring for the third hour, simply ceases to vote and that we find out if the Commission has the support of 46 Members in this composition. If he does, then it is not a problem, Janez Janša can continue to participate in this committee and everyone else, of course, as proposed by the other parties. If we don't, we're gonna have to meet at a work meeting and find a solution. I suggest we meet in a tight circle, because the fact that 78 people are here today wasting three hours talking about the wrong problem is kind of bizarre. This is my initiative, I suggest, if it is possible to consider it as procedural, so that we go to the vote, and I would also add or call upon colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party to stop this circus, which we are not only accompanying in the National Assembly, but in all commissions and committees, at the College of the President of the National Assembly, we are talking everywhere more than half the time about Janez Janša. I believe that your President means a lot to you, I believe that you feel some responsibility to him, but anyway, here you are sent by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia also have a lot of other problems than Janez Janša. For example, 120 thousand of them are unemployed, say, 400,000 live below the poverty line, and we haven’t even started talking about these problems, but we’ve been talking about Janez Janša for a month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u96	Mr. Janša wanted, I suppose, a procedural or a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u97	He was only talking about me, so I hope you won't ask me what I'm replicating. Second. The unusual change in rhetoric and attitudes is observed by a party or client who, in her initial performances, spoke about how to confront arguments and dialogue and debate and now calls for an early vote. They only get one salary, and it's all different, or it's not. See, secret services are an institution, which is also owned by democratic states, but for democratic countries, it is typical that they have these services under control. This institution of parliamentary supervision is so sacred that, for example, we, when the opposition here placed this commission in one of the previous mandates, also voted for Mr Čehovin, who was the chairman of this commission, although in the former regime, according to the Archiva data, he was not only a co-worker, but a staff member of the Udba, a member of the organisation who, according to the Supreme Court of Crime, voted in favour of him because he was part of the proposal for parliamentary supervision. If you look at the practice backwards, you're using very different criteria here. In 2006, the Commission set up by the Government found that this secret service had been bugged by the Slovenian Democratic Party because of some irregularities in the Secret Service of Owa in the 1990s. The sub-centres of this service have written a report on what the local committees of the Slovenian Democratic Party are doing. As mentioned earlier, at one of the inspections at the criminal service, we found a note saying that the Slovenian Democratic Hour of the Revolutionary Army of Kosovo was an anonymous one to propose a listening measure. These abuses have taken place and therefore parliamentary supervision is important.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u98	I'm afraid I have to find out it was a controversy, not a replica. I'll read what's the definition of no doubt. The debater may only request a word for a replica if, in the debate on the other side of the debate, his discussion was misunderstood or misinterpreted. Only the mention of another person is not enough for a replica. But because I do not want to interfere with the discussion, because in fact the National Assembly is dedicated to this and the procedural matter is so made, I am opening up the possibility of applying again to the list, of course for those who have not yet discussed it. Mag. Shirtzel, what are you replicating, first of all, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u99	It's a replica of Mr. Mesca's MP. I have been talking about today's meeting, and also in connection with the fact that the largest parliamentary party does not want to set up a Security Intelligence Supervisory Commission. But the fellow moon spoke as if I were the one who warned about it, who, I'll say, was doing a circus here and so on. I'd like to ask that we talk about what's the point today. The point is that, in today's debate, we are talking about the fact that the largest parliamentary party does not want to set up a Security Intelligence Supervisory Commission for the reason that Mr Janez Janša, who has a full mandate, is also proposed to this Commission. This is about looking for reasons for restricting the work of Ambassador Janez Janša. Member Janez Janša has a full mandate, has the right to work, of course also has the obligation to work and participate in all commissions and in all committees in which he can actually do so. It is his right, and of course it is his duty. Restricting the work and cooperation of the Commission for the supervision of security and intelligence services and the fact that this Commission does not want to be set up to do so only means that the reasons elsewhere are that it does not wish to be set up. I think that some people who work, who participate or who are associated with these services are opening champagne today and yesterday because they have no easy control. They have no civilian control, because one government is on its way out, the other government is not yet conceived, and they are simply opening champagne. But what does this mean for democracy and for human rights in this country today, and what does it mean for the rule of law in this country, and what does it mean for the rule of law in which the party Mir Cerar swears? Do you know what that means? This means that in the second session you simply walked through all those positions you were defending during the election campaign and at the first meeting of the National Assembly, when your President actually told you what we would actually be based on. I'm sorry about that. For this reason, I propose that this commission be established and that it begin its work.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u100	Again, most of the time you've been dealing with someone who hasn't mentioned you at all. Comrade Breznik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u101	I have a replica of my fellow Mesca. It goes mainly in this area, that he explained a few things where I don't think he's enlightened. In particular, I would like to tell him that in criminal procedural law, the first principle, not bis and go, is applicable, so not the same thing twice. What does that mean? That a colleague of Janez Janš, who is supposed to be convicted by law, cannot currently be subject to any investigative action or to specific methods and means of security-intelligence services, since the procedure in this case has been legally completed, may be subject to exceptional legal remedies and so on. So, as a member of this committee, he is equal to all of us. So much for these arguments. However, since there were no arguments, since there was a moralization, I would point out once again. Those, especially those who are carrying out educational processes in law schools, I call on you and ask you not to do so in the primate of democracy, because you will make the National Assembly a Communist assembly. I'm calling you again. Don't do this. And I think that this mandate given to John Janša is the greatest response of the people to the judiciary, which issued judgment on behalf of the people. This is the best answer and I would immediately ask the commission, once again, to set it up there near the judicial council, to ask yourself what is with our judiciary, that people have such mistrust. That's typical evidence. These elections are the greatest proof of the people's mistrust towards the judicial system. I call on you to establish this commission within the framework of the Judicial Council, within the framework of international legal experts, and I would also like to help you with certain associations and knowledge, to come to the bottom of the problems of our justice, the problems of mental concepts in justice, the views of partial indoctrination in legal thought, and all this is what gives me tremendous fear, extreme fear not only as a Member, but also as a citizen and gives the worst answer to what democracy is, the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u102	Thank you for the abuse of this institute. Let's move on to the debate. Procedurally. Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u103	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I do not think it is appropriate for the President of the National Assembly to comment on the opposition or replicas in this way. Colleague Beznik and others, who are reminded by the use of the replica institute, spoke entirely in accordance with what the institute envisions. If someone objects to a false statement or misinterpretation, it is not a controversy, but it is a presentation of the opposite facts, different from those previously held by the interlocutor. And what you want to prove is that there is no instrument in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. There is no controversy in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It may be in the rules of procedure of another university, but it is not used in the National Assembly. And I would like to ask you to judge all the debates of Members, including those who debate in an unanimity, on the same criteria as you are the president of both the opposition and the coalition, and we do not have only in the Slovenian Democratic Party of Discussants who are violating them. As I know parliamentary practice, not a single debate, not a single replica and not one of the procedural proposals we have made, has gone beyond the rules of procedure and established practice. Not one. He can say, Mr Han, he repeatedly says that he trusts me, and in this case he can also, because I have said in perfect terms, as the Rules of Procedure and what has been done so far, and I have 14 years of experience, and much of it is in the position of the leader of the Group of Members to speak the facts. And I ask you, do not so prejudice and discredit the procedural proposals, replicas or debates of Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u104	On the basis of Article 282, the chairman shall interpret during the discussion. And based on article 70, there's a replica that I've defined, and so I've interpreted it, and it's no different. Let's move on. Excuse me? A replica of Mr. Mesco after I answered something to you? Then the replica, Mr. Tanko. I'm sorry, you didn't discuss it at this point. No, no, no. At this point, you're not, or you're, before we took that procedural decision. Okay. Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mr President, for this opportunity to replicate. Look, you've determined the whole debate at this point that you've put the point on the agenda. Ms Lipicer, Head of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Mir Cerar, said that you are delaying the consideration of this item on the agenda to clarify the findings or to decide on this matter by the Commission of Mandate on the mandate of Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u106	Sir, the replica is on the moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u107	Of course, that was the starting point. The discussion will continue normally as a whole, as you have also conceived the debate on this item on the agenda. You have placed the rights or injustices of one Member in the resort, and we have been discussing this for three and a few hours now. Rights and business constitutional rights of one Member. Those who wonder that we are talking about John Janša or that you are talking about John Janša, let us see what you put on the agenda. And you didn't include this on the basis of our request and our decision, because we proposed it, but you did it yourself. And the argument of both the Head of the Group of Positive Slovenia and Mr Han after he requested the interruption that you agreed to, is based precisely on Janez Janša. And that the matter is even worse, two hints of both the leader of the Mir Cerar Party Group and Mr Han received, one at the College today at the meeting of the National Assembly, that this commission would be established if we decided to withdraw Janez Janša from the SDS. So what are we talking about? It's just that we're talking about Janez Janša. And there's one more thing. The approach that you have chosen from two parties to the coalition, the Mir Cerar Party and the party of the Social Democrats are talking about dictatorship. What you ask of us means dictatorship or the pressure of the majority on one of the opposition parties to change their membership, the proposed membership in one of the working bodies. That's it. And that's exactly what we're talking about. And now I'm asking those of you who are talking about what you're asking on the basis of what you're asking to exercise this major influence to make a difference in this national council. And those who speak of John Janša should first explain this.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u108	Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u109	Thank you, President for your word. Colleagues, fellows! For three hours we have been talking about a problem that should not be, in fact, respected by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Slovenian legislation and unfortunately also the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. And everything's breaking down nicely. With three quarters of the coalition quiet, they'll push the button, and on that ethics, morality, rule of law, legal democracy, I don't know what your Prime Minister refers to, you'll forget in a moment. And in the first month of your term. That's a great start. I wonder where your end will be, or perhaps the policy of the former government will continue, one word and the other. Unfortunately, it'll get worse. The word will almost be gone, only actions will be completely contrary to what the Prime Minister will say or probably write to you. Very sad for the temple of democracy, as some still call it. There is no issue with the appointment of John Janša. There was nothing disputed about his appointment as an MP, nothing disputed about his being proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party for this commission. There is nothing disputed about the confirmation of this commission and the membership of John Janša in this party. There's nothing legal or constitutionally controversial. That's what you do. By not establishing a commission today, if you do not give the mandate to John Janša on this committee, you will violate the Constitution and the law. What a fine start for this national assembly! Your Honor, we want to settle something legally and constitutionally. And you're talking about how we talk about Janez Jansa. This problem would not have been the case if we had voted on the committee and the membership of Janez Janša on this committee today. Such a simple task, so simple. It's not in sync with anything. But no, you make a problem that the whole of Slovenia actually sees, and unfortunately some of us have to defend and implement the Constitution. On the other hand, the background will work somehow in the country. Things are probably gonna get out of hand. The wiretaps are likely to go beyond the civil role of parliament to monitor this. As far as legal opinions are concerned, Your Honor. I'm married to a lawyer, my brother's a lawyer, and I want to know who else I'm going to tell to write a legal opinion, what he thinks about me and my work in the National Assembly. I'm afraid that's what it looks like. We have many masters here, Doctors of Legal Sciences, and today they are sadly silent. Happily for them, however, it may be quiet, for at least they have a moral and ethical problem, if they are not legally able to solve it, even though you have been trained to do so. However, it is only one thing that Mr Möderndorfer has already indicated at the beginning of his mandate: to delay, to some red thread called Janez Janša, and consequently to the SDS, so that we do not deal with anything else, so that we do not deal with the content, so that a beautiful coalition in the background consists of saying nothing about their problems and problems of the country. Let's talk about Janez Janša and the Slovenian Democratic Party. So simple. This has been done for 20 years, and if we work another week, one month or one year and deal with Janez Janša. I feel like most "down hangs," what's going on with the country, just that we're dealing with Janez Janša. Confirm this commission, the mandate of Janez Janša in this committee, and we can really go to those problems that, unfortunately, you are not only creating by this delaying, but also prolonging. It is sad that both the Constitution and Slovenian legislation are in breach. It's sad!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u110	Mr. Jean Mahnič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u111	Thank you for your word, again. I'm going to repeat those words that I said on the Mandate Election Commission. When I decided to run for President of the National Assembly, I was convinced that I was running for legislature, but not for a national moral-ethic authority or a national moral-ethical judge. And that's exactly what's going on here. We have some dangerous rhetoric: it's not legal, but it's good, it's not legal, but it's legitimate, it's moral and it's ethical. We don't have a problem with Mr. Janez Janša. You have it. Voters and voters have made it clear who they want in the National Assembly. The opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service is also clear. On the basis of the foregoing, it is therefore considered that the application of the third indent of Article 9(1) of the Law on Members for a Member who has applied for a Member after having been sentenced to a term of imprisonment of more than 6 months may be contested in terms of compliance with the Constitution. It is clear here that this matter can be disputed. And in the event of doubt, it must be decided in favour of the accused. Since you didn't like the legislative and legal opinion of this service, you hired lawyers. When I saw the names you have chosen, I was very pleased to see that they are Mr Pirnat, Mr Ribičič and so on, that it is finally once again crystallized as to what kind of lawyers they are. And you pay your opinion, they'll degrade themselves once the Constitutional Court annuls these eminent lawyers' decisions. It's a shame we started this mandate this way. I was confident that we would move immediately to the problems of the Slovenian countryside, young people, banking, economy and so on. Unfortunately, the same thing over and over again, the same problem in your eyes, Mr. Janez Janša. We could probably call this committee to hire a lawyer who is the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission and pay him to convince 36 Members, or the majority, of the Mandate-Electorial Commission. We are probably in a hurry to conclude, because 36 silent Members are already anxious to press the button and satisfy the country's moral authority. But there's something else I'd like to say about Owl or control. It is not that we fear that this ministry is still, I know, pursuing or identifying the way priests speak in churches. I have read that one of the vice-presidents of the National Assembly, according to media reports, has good practice of even settling these matters. Article 17 clearly states: "A supervised intelligence service shall report to the Commission every 4 months and, if necessary, beyond this deadline. The Government shall report to the Commission on specific activities of the supervised intelligence service which are of particular importance to national security. The reports referred to in the previous two paragraphs may also be requested by the Commission." I ask how much longer these lawyers will decide how long it will take for them to finally decide on the mandate of Mr Janez Janša and that this commission can finally start its work and what it is called for to oversee security and intelligence services. Next: "A supervised intelligence service shall report to the Commission every 4 months and, if necessary, beyond this deadline. The number of cases in which the measures have been decided, the number of persons against whom the measures have been decided, the number of persons against whom the measures have been applied...... and so on. Who's gonna control this now? Owls and ODS can do it now as they wish. But they are known for the affairs that Owl has produced in the history of this country. There has already been a speech about the Slovenian Democratic Party training an army. I would also like to remind you of what they did when they were directing, probably due to the need for elections, the negotiation of incidents in the Gulf of Piran in the case of Janša-Sanader, where we also know what the epilogue was like. Citizens and citizens are in danger, not the Slovenian Democratic Party. This job can control anyone. And it's important that we control this job. I'm hoping he'll finally master reason. Please confirm this commission if Mr Janez Janša is taken away from his mandate, he will no longer be a member of this commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u112	Mr Matjaž Hanžek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u113	Your Honor! I'm in a bit of a bad mood because I've been listening to this for hours and hours. Ten years ago, every year at least once, I stood there, and I listened to four or five hours of unargued attacks, which is how he performed, and I thought that after ten years, when I came as a member of this high choir, things would improve a little bit, and unfortunately not even for a pick. We listen to the same things over and over again. We know what we have written under point two to decide. I agree with Luka Mesec that we should vote once again because 95% of the speech has nothing to do with the content of what we are talking about. We're constantly hearing reports of money, of bribed lawyers, of experts, of police abuses. My fellow Member, Janez Janša, and I know how it was before 1990. Sadly, these wrong methods were used later, perhaps even on the other side. We can ask ourselves, I'm sorry to say this, but I keep listening to history, and I'm gonna add a little bit to history. We can ask how the member of the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia listened to Zlobc, who spoke with the Italian ambassador, how Professor Rudi Rizman's fax was intercepted from the university and so on. But I won't say it again. It seems strange to me that one group is constantly addressing the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service. The same people have repeatedly violated this view in other situations, and I will not explain history now, only the ZUJF is one of them. They had the exact same opinion that the ZUJF would be unstoppable. They've been going through, and now we've been listening for three hours to read it literally. It's a little too much for me, and I'd rather just ask, but I'd rather give the first job to a job that may or may not be set up today. Former Interior Minister Gorenak once said that Mr Hanžek should tell us what he was driving in the trunk of his car to the Slovenian uprisings. I'd like to know how the Home Secretary knew about the contents of my trunk. Has a judicial inquiry been conducted and so on? We already have our first assignment now, and I'm going to end it today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u114	Looks like they're gonna be replicas. First, Mr. Janez Janša, the first to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u115	His fellow Member, Mr Hanžek, spoke about listening to a former member of the Presidency of the Republic of Cyril Zlobc. Even if there was no legal parliamentary control of secret services in those days, we could argue here today indefinitely, whether it was or was not. But the commission, which was then in charge of the secret service, reviewed it, it was published, often written, for letters, and found that the service was not eavesdropping on a member of the presidency, Cyril Evil, but on an Italian consulate. A member of the Ciril Zląbec Presidency called on the Italian Consulate and the Italian Consulate a few days before the independence read a proposal for a constitutional law, including the date of actual acquisition of real powers into Slovenian hands, which was a state secret known to 8 or 9 people in the country. So much for this affair. At the time, however, the commission was in the assembly led by the opposition, and I think that of the species of the United List or SD or what they were at the time, they had already changed the name many times, and they checked and found out. That's why it's a fact. And you are now striving for a time when there will be no such control. We have already experienced that former civil security officials or the Udba have opposed parliamentary supervision. Today, however, we have experienced the opposition of the former Ombudsman to parliamentary oversight of secret services. That's really a unique thing to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u116	Mr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u117	In a nutshell, I'm not taking advantage of all the time that's available to me. Mr. Hanžek, the matter is simple, relatively simple. First of all, thank you so much for reading my blog. Today's content is interesting too. Otherwise, I'll tell you what, I asked you what you were driving, you have the opportunity to explain what you were driving. When you explain, honestly, it's gonna be a little awkward. But you have a member in this committee and an absolute member will be able to trigger it, independently, I won't be there, I'm not a member of the commission, I'm not a minister, you'll be able to review everything and the competent services will give you everything. At least that's how it was when I was in charge of the interior ministry myself. I believe that's how it's gonna be, and you're gonna get all the data, and you're gonna be able to file a complaint, which you're gonna want, because that's not a problem. A lot of success in your work ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u118	It's a replica of the replica. In doing so, I must point out that you are not possible and would not have contributed to this point. I will continue to open the list for discussion. I'll give my word to you too, Mrs Violeta Tomic. First of all, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u119	President, thank you so much for your word. I believe that some in this Chamber are bored with this debate, because the constitution and the legal matter mean less to them. However, the presidents would ask you to speak about the mother of all laws in the future in discussions that are not offensive and, as I said, this is respect for the Constitution, do not talk about the circus going on in here. I don't allow myself to be a Member of Parliament. Not only for my own sake, but also for the electorate's sake, and for the respect of this council. I believe that we are all so serious and responsible and, above all, we have been elected to act in accordance with the Constitution and the laws. Look, it's a very simple rule, because I'm a simple Member, I don't have doctoral, master's degrees, an average citizen, but I don't understand anything. If I were a professional chef and I was doing this job at home, and my husband would come and say, "No, but today you won't cook, and today she'll cook next door because she's also a cook, and we'll see how and what." Personally, it would seem very underestimating to me, but above all, it would mean that my husband and I can no longer trust what I know. Unfortunately, I, too, hope to hear a word from the respect of the worthy representatives of Mir Cerar. But as a healthy farmer teaches me, if someone has run for office as a convicted citizen and the electorates have known it and have chosen it, it is not possible, however, for a respected candidate to prevent a human electorate from performing this function without delay. It can if it's a political motive! And it's true, we're talking a lot about Janez Janša today. I'm sure if we talked about someone else, today wouldn't be a problem at all. The Commission would probably have been confirmed at the beginning of the mandate. But it's always Janez Janša's problem. And it is true that we have repeatedly mentioned how many votes have been received by the candidate convicted and today by the Member of Parliament. Perhaps we should look at this debate from a slightly different perspective. If someone who is convicted and disputed by your legal authority and is a second-rate citizen and a second-rate Member, then perhaps it would be worth discussing what is going on with our judicial system. In fact, citizens and citizens do not trust him. They don't trust him! And perhaps today we should devote three or more hours to this problem. You know, being convicted, politically convicted in a seemingly democratic country should be the primary problem of this assembly, not whether a Member can sit on a committee or not. I really call and ask the distinguished experts, especially such high-level experts, and the important ones, to give their opinions, to decide and not to leave decisions to those whom we have known for years and years, how they have thought and how they have acted in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u120	Mrs Violeta Tomic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u121	Thank you so much for saying that. Some of us are really here for the first time, and that's why we apologize for the awkwardness. Some longtime members are happy to smile at us at times, but we will learn to do so. I wouldn't be bragging about how many mandates you've been here because of how the country went. But I would greatly commend you for coming back, and this debate has been going on for a very long time. I listen to you, I'm an actress, out of my own ego, but let me tell you some of my impressions can. There are two parliaments here that I feel. One Parliament is SDS, the other Parliament is all left. And this other Parliament, or the first, if we want to call it that, somehow wants to expand space and time and everything. I'd like to thank you very much for your speaking skills. They're extraordinary, and I want you to commend my compliments to my colleague who's training you. Unfortunately, the content is not affected. I like the way you pass. We're very ignorant. From the Mir Cerar Party, I believe that they have not yet had the opportunity to practice professionally, and many are just a little more embarrassed. Okay, but what's interesting is how skillfully you use some speaking elements like pathetic. Mrs. Anya is my favorite because she told us five times Shame Shame! It's a shame, I agree, but there are other things. Then he's paranoid. Here you're wondering who's running the Mir Cerar Party. We even heard that we were launched to make them look like the middle. Brilliant thoughts. Then manipulation. Here we heard of bears, otherwise a story that was made, but we listened to it and thus wasted our time in trying to save the country, not to save John’s soldier, but to continue. And this Parliament of yours obviously has a different set of rules than the rest of Parliament. And it's probably written in it, I don't know, but it seems to me that every other sentence has to contain the word John Janša. This reminds me of the youthful literature of Harry Potter, where by mentioning a certain name, they were building the power of someone. But let's leave it at that. I'll say it sounds like we're strangers here, too. I just didn't know that expression before, and it's very humiliating. I agree on a lot of things with you. Ms Anja mentioned earlier that it is known that polls, legal opinions can be bought, and the media can also be bought. That's what we've seen. You can even buy an election, so with your score of 6,000 116 votes, I wouldn't be bragging, because if we had your money, we would have won the election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u122	A replica? It's a debate. I'm giving you a chance to sign up again. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u123	Procedurally. Three things. I love to cook, but the debate about the kitchen doesn't fall under this point, otherwise we can start talking about the recipe for yota. Procedural, second time. Although members and members of the SDS will speak of Janez Janša as second-rate Member, I will ask procedurally every time because Janez Janša is not a second-rate Member. Procedurally, thirdly, I'll save it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u124	This was not purely procedural either, but I suppose we would like to reach a decision as soon as possible, but this decision is not possible until the list of those who wish to discuss is exhausted. Parliament is basically for discussion. For once, I allowed a very broad interpretation, and even the insult was endless, I would rather not mention who could have been potentially offended. Mr Jože Tanko will first discuss.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u125	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. If I recall the procedure for forming working bodies, it has at least one of the important roles of the Colleges of the President of the National Assembly, where this matter is done. The decision of the National Assembly is also important in this process and, of course, what act is signed by the President of the National Assembly, by which it calls on the members of the Parliament to propose to the working bodies, in accordance with the acts adopted, the basis. I do not recall, Mr President of the National Assembly, that at this decision you wrote any note or restriction for any Member. You have given a decision by the National Assembly to the parliamentary groups to decide on the composition of the working bodies at your discretion. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly also provide in Article 34 for each Member to have the right to express his or her wish to participate in the working body of the National Assembly. We have taken this procedure into account in the Group of Members. You have received at the table a proposal for the composition of working bodies or a proposal from members of the parliamentary group who want to work in individual working bodies of the National Assembly. I now ask the President of the National Assembly why, when we have done so in accordance with the documents adopted and responded to your call, you are voting against the composition of one of the bodies of the National Assembly, but you have not written any note that this is not possible or that any member in the working body cannot act. What is the point, say, of your decision to break the rule and the document that you have signed yourself? We forwarded the composition of our members correctly, there was no comment when the act came to the meeting of the National Assembly, and someone found that something was wrong. You're a law professor. I ask you whether we have done as a matter of procedure everything by means of the acts adopted in this National Assembly. I ask others what the point is, then, that because of someone we have proposed in one of the working bodies does not decide on this working body and the decision is conditioned by the head of your parliamentary group, Dr Lipitzer, earlier Mr Han spoke about this, that if we were to withdraw or replace one of the members of one of the working bodies, you would confirm it. What's the point of that? There was no record under these documents that there was nothing we could do. I ask Mr Dobovsk how parliamentary supervision of security and intelligence services will work, as it is also becoming more obvious from your debate that you do not like this working body and do not want to establish it. How is this going to work? Does the National Assembly process all the matters entrusted to it within the framework of the work of this working body? And there's one more thing I want to know. Now you also have one of the judges who was once a judge in court. She swore to perform her judicial function in accordance with the Constitution and the law and to judge by her conscience and impartiality. Now I also ask the person who once swore as a judge, or now that she is a member of the National Assembly, this oath no longer applies. Is decision-making now allowed to pass the Constitution, pass the law, and be biased? What you're doing is an eccentric bias. Everyone can be anything but one. Everyone can be all in this national assembly, candidates for all functions – except Janez Janš You are now doing this. These are your decisions that you are now making in this procedure of the National Assembly. And there's something else. Why didn't you order an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service on this particular case? We have a service of the National Assembly, specially trained in issuing legal opinions, competent. And you didn't do it. What's the problem? What keeps you from doing that? You don't just do this because you're doing bias and you're doing hegemony and you want to apply yours also to sent groups that you're not members of. And that's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u126	I am checking again if anyone else has been reported for discussion. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the election of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. In doing so, I must inform you that, under the second paragraph of Article 10 of the Law on parliamentary control of intelligence and security services, if a majority of all Members vote for it, that is 46 or more. Mr. Tanko, of course, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 73 of the Rules of Procedure, I request a 45-minute recess for consultation in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u128	First, the explanation of the votes. This has always been the practice, and so it will be now. First of all, I ask the leaders of the parliamentary groups whether they want to explain their vote. Yeah. On behalf of the SDS Group, he shall have the word mag. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u129	Your Honor! It is crucial that parliamentary supervision of the work of security and intelligence services be established immediately. This is one of the fundamental tasks of democracy and one of the fundamental tasks of this National Assembly under the Constitution and laws which must not be avoided. All that is going on in this regard is unfortunately unconstitutional and illegal here, and it is so obvious that no lawyer and no commission can deny it, no matter how much ten thousand euros of tax money you intend to pay it. You yourself have cited as the reason why this commission has not been named so far and that you are opposed to it today – at least the ones you spoke of – that there is also Mr Janez Janša in it. In the same breath, when we talk about Mr. Janez Janša, you tell us why we are talking about Mr. Janez Janša. That says a lot about you, doesn't say much about SDS, but it says a lot about the state of democracy and about those who do it. In particular because this is happening in the National Assembly, in which Dr Cerar, as President of the largest party, and Dr Brglez, as President of the National Assembly, committed themselves to binding the decisions they are awaiting on the opinion of the Legal Service of the National Assembly. However, when this opinion came to light, the entire legal service of the National Assembly was suddenly discredited by the establishment of an independent group, in which, by the way, one former president of the totalitarian political party was to lower this opinion. The opinion is simply that it could not be otherwise if law is respected as an expert, as it relies directly on the already clearly stated views of the Constitutional Court and the Court of Human Rights of the European Community. You said yourself that you would wait for decisions regarding the mandate of Janez Janša. This was even your decision at the previous meeting to be a decommissioned commission. You know, Churchill said if you wanted to drag things down, you'd set up a commission. Well, I'd add, and if you want to spend money, you set up a commission. The opinion before you is not only the opinion of the legal service, but it is also a valid judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, which has made it clear that the exercise of its passive electoral rights makes it possible for a person who has a mandate to exercise it in full and without restriction. The Slovenian Constitutional Court also said the same thing. That is why you postpone this crucial decision because you know that if you solve John Janša, you will experience an infamous crash at the Constitutional Court or the European Court of Human Rights. And you're hiding this in order to leave security and intelligence services without parliamentary supervision. We will, of course, support this commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u130	Does he want to explain the opinion of another parliamentary group? No, no, no. Does one of the Members or Members want to explain the opinion? Yeah. Mr. Janez Janša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u131	I will, of course, support this decision and the list of this vote will be very important for the last 20 and several years of Slovenian parliamentary democracy. There are several statements of parliamentary votes that have gone into history. They are published in many professional studies, in books, on the Internet all published, where they talk about some very important decisions concerning principles. Civil parliamentary oversight of secret services is one of the fundamental pillars of democracy. Respect for the rules of the game is the foundation of democracy. If there is no rule of the game and if there is no respect for these rules of the game, then there is no democracy in fact. Because the one who has the majority can decide everything. And the minority disappears, and this has happened in history, and we know what the consequences were. For this reason, a copy of today's vote, as well as a vote on the same subject, will be very important for the last time. It's not just a waste of time and a formal matter. It is a matter of whether those who have scissors and canvas in this national assembly want parliamentary control of secret services and control over whether or not human rights are violated in this area. Everything else is an excuse. The debate on me is not a debate on my proposal or on the proposal of a parliamentary group, but it is on the proposal of the largest future government party, which therefore assumes full responsibility for wasting time in this regard. Instead of dealing here with real problems, you always pose a problem as something that is essentially the principle of democracy. And the vote that will follow this agenda will not be forgotten as many others, but will remain for history.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u132	Mrs. Violeta Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u133	Thank you very much. I agree with my young colleague from SDS, who at the beginning of this long meeting told us that we are unique. We are truly unique to the world's unique because the prisoner, legally convicted, sits in our ranks. Even more unique, yes, we are becoming because this prisoner wants to be a member of the Security Services Supervisory Commission. So someone who's in prison would be in control of those who, on their official duty, should supervise him. Please, where is the basic logic here? Mr. Gorenjak, you are nodding, of course you have a deep experience with this. I agree with you, Mr Gorenjak, completely that Mr Janez Janša has the greatest experience with security services, because he has already been pursued and has already been a stalker. This is one of the main reasons why his candidacy in this committee is indeed the most questionable. You say people don't trust the rule of law. Who's undermining the rule of law? Probably not us who are trying to follow here, but those who are waiting for us in front of Parliament and shouting, and those who are yelling at the judges and beating them with marels. You know who sends them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u134	You didn't tell me how you were going to vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u135	Yeah, sure, how I'm gonna vote. Yes, absolutely against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u136	Voice explanation, Mr. Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u137	Thank you for your word. We have been told many times that the SDS is destroying the rule of law. We're not doing this because if you want to tear something down, something has to be built first. As far as the vote is concerned, I will vote in absolute favour. I remember a few months ago we had an argument about a so-called Trojan horse. The former Minister of the Interior, the police, we know that there are certain means of communication that intelligence services cannot control with this equipment they have. As a result, this law went in this direction so that this matter could be done again. There was a lot of disgust in both the professional and the public back then. And if there was a disturbance back then, I don't know why he's gone now that these things are completely out of control. Owls and ODS will be out of control, so I really expect you here, well, you have a colleague who is an expert who has already commented on these things on television, and I kind of miss his opinion. Finally, he will be a member of the Commission, I suppose, because he is aware of the importance of this Commission. I will vote in favour because I think it is high time we set up this committee. We have set up all the other committees and committees, and in many of them is also a member of Mr Janez Janša, and I do not know why he would not be a member of this committee. If his term ends, we'll just propose another. Until then, we will propose to Mr Janez Janša. However, if you have a problem and are therefore going to amend legislation, it is easier to write that Mr Janez Janša should not perform any public functions in the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u138	Voice explanation, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u139	Thank you very much. In explanation of vote, I will not deal with Mrs Tomićeva, who does not know how many votes she received, her entire party received 494 votes and Mr Janez Janša received 6 000 116. The purpose of this vote is to explain to the Members how we will vote. From my discussions so far, it has been absolutely clear that I will vote in favour of this decision. This decision needs to be voted in order to avoid for the first time in Slovenia – I say, for the first time – that the security and intelligence services – we are talking about the Owls, we are talking about the OSCE, we are talking about all the other segments that this commission is dealing with – that this service will not be unsupervised. Now I don't know who it suits to be out of control. Maybe that fits the emerging coalition. I think we should go beyond that and move on and set up a commission. This, as I said, is absolutely necessary. Explaining that someone can't be a member of this commission, they don't hold anything back. I've already told you twice why. Due to the fact that none of the Commission's intended members can confidently claim that he is not under control at this time. Who can claim that? Nobody. And if you take the logic as you have taken it at least after the reasons given by the head of the SMC Group, then it is quite clear that no one has conditions because you are all because we are all, including the envisaged members of the commission, can potentially at this point under the control of, say, the criminal service or anyone else. So this argument has fallen, has fallen a long time ago, and the decision that will be taken, if not positive, will be one tragic decision, the political decisions of this Parliament, and above all the first serious decision of the newly emerging coalition towards the illegal state, although its President is primarily defending the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u140	Voice explanation, Mr. Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u141	Thank you very much, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, look, I will vote in favour of this decision, of course. But all those who oppose this decision do not realize that, with all that I have tried to explain to you today, we argue that what legal practice is primarily foreign to this area, that you must be aware that those who have now gathered before the court and who have reasoned and culturally cited the mass violations not only in the judicial proceedings of Mr Janez Janša, but of all other citizens and citizens, that when this commission for the supervision of security and intelligence services does not work, you are also violating the many fundamental human rights of all our citizens and citizens. Look, we have major problems with our intelligence services, which is the result of perhaps a somewhat loose practice, that we have left a whole range of people who once worked for the former State Security Service in our intelligence and security agency. This is a major problem and has led to massive violations and multiple human rights violations, particularly in the specific methods and means that some have been alerting today. You are doing something unusual today, and I believe, as one of our citizens said, when he watched your party president and current terminator's defense, because he was blind and listened only to his tone of speech, he thought we were setting up a new Ljubljana Archbishop, not the Prime Minister, that is, moralizing, moralizing and moralizing again. No argument at all. Without any typical legal arguments that would somehow protect this act of yours you're about to do today. This will be a unique act for Slovenian democracy and, on the one hand, a welcome act that [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] A particularly important reform is the reform of the judicial system and then the reform of the school system. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u142	Voice explanation, mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u143	Thank you very much. I'll vote in favour of setting up a Secret Service Supervisory Commission. For the first time because I think such a commission is absolutely necessary, secondly because it provides legal certainty for all citizens and citizens and because it also ensures respect for human rights for all citizens and citizens. I will also vote in my conscience and in my conviction, and in fact I also appeal to the other Members and Members to vote in accordance with their conscience and conviction and to use this opportunity to actually ensure to this country what they have taken after all through the entire electoral campaign: for a larger state of law, for government law, for respect for human rights, and that they will simply achieve those goals that they have committed themselves to, and that, after the mandate they will have, they will be able to look into the eyes of their constituents and voters and say, "Yes, what we have promised, we have actually done." This isn't about one person, this isn't about Janez Janša, this is about establishing a mechanism to control secret services. If there is no such control, then history shows that it has also happened in the territory of Slovenia and also in the area of the former Yugoslavia, even in the area of other countries too many things that can actually happen. That's what happened, that's what history teaches. And we do not repeat any negative mistakes or cast a shadow, a shadow of an unjust state and a shadow of a country that does not respect human rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u144	Voice explanation, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u145	Of course, I will vote in favour of setting up a commission. To this I am most convinced by the very misrepresentation of the dilemma of democracy that we have witnessed here today. It has been said that the rule of law is being broken by those who express disagreement with a judicial judgment. If you read only one textbook of constitutional law, say Dr. Sturm, who is here in this library, you could read that expressing disagreement, a controversy with a legal judgment, and in any body or in the general public, is an expression of democracy, even a criterion of democracy and the development of a country's democracy. So you are opposed to something that is a criterion of democracy. That says a lot about you again. And it was said that someone was overthrowing the rule of law. Do you know who's really ruining the rule of law right now? All those who prevent or by voting prevent the security and intelligence services from receiving immediate parliamentary supervision, in fact demolish the rule of law and the foundations of democracy at the same time. Worse. Who's the one who's breaking up the rule of law, ladies and gentlemen, just as opposed to what you're selling here? Two people are tearing it down right now. One is Mr Brglez and the other is Mr Cerar. One because it is objectively responsible to allow this farce by drawing a decision on a mandate, irrespective of the fact that it is obviously unconstitutional and even against the Convention on Human Rights, which has already been judged by the European Court of Human Rights in the role of the President of the National Assembly, while the other allows, tolerates or promotes, as you wish, the President of a political party. This is indeed the destruction of the rule of law and the foundations of the rule of law and democracy. And those who do so are therefore fully responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u146	The explanation for the vote is mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u147	Thank you for the floor, honourable President of Parliament. I will vote in favour of the committee in the composition as proposed, because, for the first time, I think it is right for the Member to do so, because he has to comply with the legislation governing his conduct. And that's how I'll decide on my own conscience. Unfortunately, I am disappointed that we are talking about a first-class legal problem, which is more or less legally clear, and yet it is attempted by various legal manoeuvres in this high-level assembly. I am also disappointed that the leader of the parliamentary group who proposed such a proposal for today's meeting lacks much of today's debate. What impression does this give to those accompanying this debate? Dear members of the Mir Cerar Party! That if you vote against this committee against the composition of this commission today in accordance with the party's discipline, you will de facto give your trust to your distinguished Member, Mr Dobovšk, who can thus control those who have the power to make decisions and who are therefore here to control them. The parliamentary commission is not to oversee the ordinary member of this commission, who comes from opposition types, but to oversee state authorities and those who actually make decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u148	Anybody else want to explain their voice? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has an explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u149	Thank you so much for saying that. Allow me first, of course, the opinions are different and I hope that for now and forever, the times have passed when we had to think and speak the same. I believe, however, that this was somehow designed by the honourable Member as one of the jokes that players must use in their work. It is true that today we will decide whether to set up a commission or whether to vote against it. But personally, I think we're going to decide something else. On the one hand, we will be those who will decide whether to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the law and we will vote in favour or we will put ourselves on the side of the violation of the Constitution, in the highest temple of democracy. So my voice will be absolutely in favour and I sincerely hope that you will do the same for the other Members, at least in the majority, because, not least, we owe it to all citizens and citizens if we want them to follow us. And there's one more thing. By no means do I allow myself to take the right to avoid my opposition to the problems in the legal system of our country and the functioning of the courts being allowed to show and say this in a calm and dignified manner before a court.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u150	Mr Andrej Chuš has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u151	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I cannot help but wonder how you deal with only one Member, our President, Janez Janša. If we were to do half as much business as we do with the economy, I'm sure we'd be Switzerland today. Mayor Miro Cerar has always talked about new ethics, about the rule of law, about some new times. Although I have a feeling that we are going back to some new or old times, times of dictatorship. New ethics is also clearly a violation of the Constitution and a violation of all applicable legislation. The mandate holder is also obviously a legal violation of human rights, and I am not surprised that today we are being compared by more and more people in the international community to North Korea. I will act alone for the benefit of the rule of law and respect the Constitution. I will support myself the establishment of a Security Intelligence Supervisory Commission. When we gained independence, the then State Security Service greatly lit up the archives and acted very rapidly. I cannot help but feel that this is also a political interest today, that there is no control over the intelligence service and that they are obviously burning some other archives than the failed government of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u152	Mrs Eva Irgle has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u153	Thank you so much for saying that. I will vote in favour of this issue, it is said to confirm the composition of the Commission for the supervision of security and intelligence services, as this is an extremely important matter and it is imperative that this control be regulated as soon as possible. It was said that there could not be someone on the committee who could possibly be controlled by security and intelligence services or other authorities. That's bullshit. Mr Trček, I think he said earlier that he knows that he is being listened to, that he is being watched, so he will wave several times, when he is monitoring such or carrying out talks and so on, but Mr Trček will be calmly elected to this committee, I think he could be self-limited and say, if Mr Janez Janša, who may not be on the committee because he is possibly easily controlled, then because he himself knows that he is being supervised, he could also decide that he does not already participate in this commission. But the joke's on the side. I hope, I really hope, and here, above all, I ask Members who belong to the largest party, Mir Cerar Party, I hope that today you will not vote to ad persons, but you will vote in the same way as the grand constitution, as the prime law, as not least the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The term of office-election commission confirmed the mandate of Janez Janša and confirmed the mandate of Janez Janša as well as the team that has been elected today and sits here, a state assembly is called. It is particularly important for all those who are lawyers by profession, even doctors of law, how you decide today [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Depending on your decision, you will also decide on your own integrity and your professionalism in the field you carry out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u154	Mr Tomaž Lisec has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u155	Thank you, President. Your Honor! I myself will vote in favour of the establishment of a commission, because in these four hours and a little more by those who propose a counter-decision, I have not received any substantive reply or I have ensured why the appointment or establishment of this commission, together with its member John Janša, would be unconstitutional or against legislation, no answer. And all those of you who are going to press the counter today, Your Honor, have failed your legal exam at the temple of democracy. And I know that there are a lot of lawyers among you, a lot of professors, and you probably know how you'll feel when you fall on this legal exam, where there's nothing ethical, nothing moralal, and even less legal and constitutionally controversial. In short, the reasons why we should be against this conclusion are not why we should be so determined, and we tried to explain them in four hours. But apparently the deaf majority will decide against constitutional and legal standards. I myself will oppose such thinking and will easily support the decision to set up a commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u156	Anybody else want to explain their voice? I get it. Voice explanation, Mr. Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u157	Your Honor! I will support the decision to set up a committee to oversee intelligence services. Today, in this extensive debate, I have not heard a single reason, nor one single basis, which would give a position to the High Professional Assembly, on what basis a certain Member may be excluded from participating in the appointment of a certain commission. Did you give a single reason? Have you laid the groundwork for such an act that you will choose today? You didn't pass. I've even heard that marriage is above the constitution. I'm not a lawyer, but I don't think this thing works. I don't know which marriage is higher than the Constitution. As far as I know, the Constitution is above all in the Republic of Slovenia. On the other hand, you were full of mouths about a democratic, efficient, legal state. But that's not something you can see from your actions. So if you're doing state discharge with the first step to abolish control, then that's not the way to a democratic, effective and legal state.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u158	We will proceed with the explanations of vote. I would still point to one thing. On the basis of Article 72, the Member has the right to explain his vote, which means that the explanation of the vote cannot be a controversy, a title, a persuasion, an appeal and a question which is the object of the debate, but rather a presentation of the substantive reasons for his own vote. On the inside, let us stick to this when we explain our decision on the vote itself. Now, Mrs Zvonka – no, Mr Zvonko Lah, I apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u159	Thank you very much, President. Good thing I have a mustache. I, too, will support the establishment of a monitoring commission because I have not heard any reason for not hearing it today. Not one. If I did, I'd think about it. What the colleague said earlier – we heard an explanation as it was on the Mandate-Electorial Commission, that it was just a law, that only a law should be seen, no constitution, that the law was above the constitution. And you found a reason, Comrade Janez Jansho, not to set up this committee. The more lawyers he is, the less right he is, the less right he is. I haven't heard a single reason why not. A pure political decision against current practice, against the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and all institutions in the National Assembly. This is a bad start, this point. It's a bad start to your term. The next item, which we will consider today, is the same. That's why I'm going to support this, and I hope you've heard a lot of arguments that you're going to do the same in your position.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u160	Voice explanation, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u161	Thank you very much. I will vote in favour of the establishment of this Commission for the following reasons. Due to the complete absence of an explanation of the applicant and no arguments of all those who have decided to reject the decision to set up. Secondly, because I do not want the National Assembly to become part of the witch process, where, on the basis of some indications, hints are abused and tormented so long as the desired conduct occurs. Thirdly, I will vote in favour because I am against the abuse of functions in the National Assembly and the abuse of the Constitution, laws and other matters related to this work. I will vote for supervision because I want parliamentary supervision of security intelligence services to be established over the use of specific methods and means. And I will vote in favour of preventing academic support from being controlled by this service. And I will also vote because I am against the unacceptable intervention in the independence of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. I am against the fact that in any way, indirect, direct, with hints or whatever, the Party of Peace Cerar or the party of the Social Democrats is in charge of the Party of Peace Cerar – what has already been said at the meeting and at the College. In short, I'm in favour of this commission being set up.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u162	Anybody else want to explain their voice? I'm going through the list. Mrs Jelka Godec will explain her voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u163	Thank you very much. I will certainly vote in favour of setting up a commission. In fact, I believe that none of the members of this Commission, no term of office of the members of this Commission, is disputed that each parliamentary group may decide on its own behalf, who will be proposed to the individual committees, the Commission, that no one in the National Assembly has the right to pressure on the independence or functioning of the parliamentary groups and direct them to whom they should appoint to committees and committees, because I believe that the Constitution is above the law and because I have experienced today the total ignorance of the largest coalition party in the National Assembly. And none of you have explained or given a broader explanation why, at least so I suppose, you will vote against the commission despite the fact that there have been several calls from different sides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u164	Anybody else want to explain their voice? I can see that there are no more interested people, so I interrupt point 2a of the extraordinary session, which we will continue at 3:15, which is 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u165	Continue with the interrupted item 2.a of the agenda. Does the representative of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, which requested a suspension of the point before the decision, wish to present the position of the Group of Members? Please, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u166	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. In the parliamentary group, we will support the establishment of a Security Intelligence Supervisory Commission because we believe that it is unacceptable that, in the parliamentary system of security intelligence services and others dealing with various forms of control, they cannot do this unsupervised and unsupervised. On the other hand, I would also like to point out that we do not agree with what has been implied in those rare debates, which is to say that some of the groups in our decisions would intervene in such a way as to allow me to vote by changing the member of the Security Intelligence Supervisory Board. This is an unacceptable pressure on the sovereignty of the Group of Members, because we have made this decision in accordance with the rules. I would also like to draw attention to the statement made by the President of the National Assembly on Tuesday at the College that a different decision on the composition of this Commission is possible, that is, individually, possible by amending the law. The exact way to vote on the composition of this commission is so, and therefore the parliamentary majority does not elect supervisors in intelligence services in its own image. That is why it is voted in a package, entirely on the composition of a commission, to prevent the ruling coalition from choosing its own persons to control something. And I am already reminding you of the shows that have been scheduled for debate in both the National Assembly and the College today, when, in response to the debate of one of the members of the College, you also warned of such a possibility. The Security Intelligence Supervisory Commission, if not designated in the package in the manner envisaged now, will have no full role in the supervisory system over these services. And we are against anything changing in this area. In short, we will support the composition of this commission. The responsibility that this commission may not be set up can be attributed to the coalition itself, as well as to those who may support this coalition decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u167	This concludes the debate and allows us to move to a vote. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 53. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to one. POINT OF THE DAY, IT IS ON THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AFTER THE PRINCIPAL PROCEDURE The draft law was tabled by a group of 50 Members and Members, first signed by Dr Simono Kustec Lipicer. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed bill, Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u168	Dear Mr President, the esteemed assembly, respectable citizens and citizens! At today's 2nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, we adopt a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The content of this law will provide an institutional framework for the functioning of the 12th Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The primary objectives of the new government are basically two. The first objective is to regulate existing problem content within individual policy areas and the second proactive response to the emerging development challenges of countries, both domestic and international, especially EU requirements and expectations. As can be seen from the material under consideration today, which is jointly submitted by members and members of SMC, DeSUS and SD's parliamentary groups, 14 ministries, the Minister without a department for Relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world and, where necessary, up to two more ministers without headquarters. We are confident that the new government, with such a sectoral work allocation, will enable the effective management and implementation of policies in specific areas and will optimise and rationalise its functioning and thus achieve the commitments and objectives set. 12. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia will carry out its activities in a period of difficult economic, financial and social circumstances. Numerous domestic and international data show that, particularly in recent times of crisis, there have been many structural and systemic problems on the surface that we have not seen or wanted to see before. It is also increasingly evident that we are suffocating in the context of the country's overriding situation and at the same time the large deficit in the actual implementation of the daily implementation of the adopted regulations, which would address the reasons why these regulations were adopted. All of these have direct and direct effects both on the functioning of individual subsystems within the country, especially economic, financial and social, as well as on the countries themselves. For illustration, I only provide a few basic statistics. Despite a decrease in the number of government ministries since 2008, the annual gross domestic product has not in recent years recorded positive real growth. The deficit and debt of the country has been negative since 2005 and has increased to 71% since 2009 when it was already high in GDP at 35%. Taxes on income and profit are being reduced, taxes on payroll and labour force, on property, on goods and services are being increased. In 2013, 10.2% less income was collected than two years ago. The same applies to the proceeds of the deposit. In two years, 20 % of income from capital gains, dividends and interest was lower. The market structure and functioning of the infrastructure, energy, agricultural, environmental sector, for example, are assessed by the analysis and future projections of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. In 2013, according to the Statistics Office of the Republic of Slovenia, almost 7,000 800 people moved out of the country. The registered unemployment rate increased from 8.6% at the end of 2006 to 12.8% by June 2014. In 2012, the rate of social exclusion was 19.6%, representing 0.3 percentage points more than a year earlier. Under the threshold of risk of poverty or social exclusion, according to official data, 392 thousand people were both in 2012. All of these indicators indicate that the Slovenian state's performance has not been good in recent years and has not been favoured or favoured by the social and economic well-being of our people, which is why it needs such an appropriate redefinition of political priorities and objectives as well as organisational and implementation measures within the individual sector. These facts also clearly show that, in order for the government to function effectively, it is not enough to follow only the minimum financial saving framework, but in particular the clear and coherently developed substantive implementation plan, which is provided by the well-thought-out institutional framework and the transparent and efficient use of the different types of resources as well. On the basis of everything mentioned in the SMC Group, we believe that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is good and we will vote unanimously today for its approval. We also point out that, in addition to the two co-proposers, this proposal has also been supported by the Commission of the National Council of State. In the SMC Group, we are confident that the law will provide an appropriate formal institutional basis for the successful operational functioning of the new Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u169	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Lilliani Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u170	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at its 1st emergency meeting. 8. 2014 as a parent working body was treated as a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members, first signed by Dr Simono Kustec Lipicer, with a proposal for a hearing following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall meet at its second session. 8. 2014 decided that the proposal for a law should be examined in a simplified manner. This is how the mother body actually dealt with it, and at the outset, the representative of the proposer said in the supplementary explanation of the articles that the proposed law provided for the reorganisation of ministries with the aim of making them more efficient and operational. In presenting the opinion of this service from a legal and system-wide perspective, the representative of the Legal and Legal Service pointed out that, at the same time as this bill accompanying the structure of ministerial functions, a new Law on State Administration should also be proposed, which would appropriately change the structure of ministries and set up ministries and define their work areas. Their comment on Article 3 of the bill is duly taken into account by the proposed amendment of the SMC Group Members Committee. It also noted that the proposal for an amendment of the Committee to Article 2 submitted by the Alliance's Group of Ambassadors, Alenka Bratušek, raises important constitutional issues and that, in terms of systematicity, it exceeds the content of Article 11 of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and would therefore require further consideration. The Commission of the National Council of State has expressed its support for the proposal for a law. The discussion on individual articles reflected some of the concerns and suggestions of members of the committee of the opposition parliamentary groups, which are reflected in the attached report. The Committee then adopted, on the basis of Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure, the proposed amendment to Article 3. However, the Committee did not accept the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1 of this Group's amendment and then became irrelevant to Articles 2 and 3. Nor did the Committee adopt the amendment of the Alliance's Group of Ambassadors, Alenka Bratušek, to Article 2. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee then voted on and adopted all the articles together. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended Act is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which includes the adoption of an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u172	Dear Presidents, fellow Members, fellow Members, citizens, citizens and all others present! The Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is not a matter of fundamental interference with the law, but it is true that the number of ministries is increasing due to meaningful rounding and the need for greater efficiency. In some ways, we all attach ourselves to the view that each coalition and every government has the right to make such a composition that it will be able to successfully implement the government programme. In doing so, this government is no exception. We believe that it is right for the Ministry responsible for the environment and space to be independent again. We also believe that the re-establishment of the Ministry of Public Administration is necessary. We are awaiting negotiations with the public sector unions and it is therefore appropriate to offer the unions a competent interlocutor to give all the necessary attention. We estimate that the proposed arrangements are more appropriate than existing ones and that efficiency cannot be measured only on one criterion. In Slovenia, the dogmaticism of thin administration has expanded over the past years. Part of the political authority and the dominant public opinion on wealth have also joined in consolidating the idea, and it has taken advantage of the political conflict with certain social sub-systems. In this context, the effects of so-called rationalisation have proved to be null and void. However, the impact on the operation of individual areas has been devastating. In Cali, he suppressed the minimum trust that is necessary for the constructive cooperation of the ruling policy with the civil society groups concerned. The absence of dialogue thus reflected the acceptance of the poor, even the harmful, which caused not only the affected social sub-system but also the decline as a society as a whole. In establishing the structure of the executive branch of power, the coalition has always taken the right to steal it according to its political and programme measures. And the opposition usually recognised this right. For this reason, the Social Democrats will support the amendment of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u173	The text is by the Joint Left Group, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u174	Thank you. I will be a little shorter than you used to be, for a simple reason, because some of us in this assembly live a little longer than the Ljubljana or Ljubljana urban region. The position of our parliamentary group towards the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is similar to or almost identical to our view of ministries at the level of the European Commission – I am not stupid enough to know that the European Commission does not actually have ministries or has DGs, as we say in the media – which has already been submitted by our group leader, Comrade Luka Mesec. So, until the story changes, the story, economists you prefer development models, until then the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will look primarily through and defend the interests of capital and substantial changes will not. Point number two. The practice, not only in Slovenia, is that the mandateholders tailor the government within the coalition arithmetic so that this jacket will be comfortable enough for it, bearable if I metaphorically express myself. Who and how you will make the coalition members and Mr Miro Cerar dress up is happy, but we believe that it is also a difficult task. Work on it. Point 3. We are against ministers without a charter for reasons of raising political culture – I will also talk about political culture a little to the end – which is necessary, which is very clear in the elections told us by citizens and citizens, both those with electoral rights and those who are still without it, young people. For example, political beings are at least 14 years ahead. And you know, my five-and-a-half-year-old daughter said, "In his new job, he taps Janez Jansho's ass first because he stole everything." Even though we never talked about Janez Janša at home. When I was five and a half years old, I had no idea who was sitting in what he was, the executive world of the Republic of Yugoslavia and so on. In short, why don't we support the Ministry without a license? Because it's a supply of ministries or a new political culture, they're supposed to stop spilling so-called chairs. The whole opposition probably agrees here. Because if I'm being a little funny, then maybe any other opposition party would give one ministry without a license. Everyone would be happy, they'd have a socialist relationship with the working people, and they'd whistle here. If Miro Cerar wants to have a project office, let him have it, it should be a project office within his office and not in the form of two ministers without a ticket. Some Austrian chancellor even has a ministry for, what, culture, art and so on, because they like to expose it and because it's important. The United Left will not vote in favour, but also against no, but will set up a mirror for both the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the authorities in its composition, regardless of the number of ministries. In doing so, we will, of course, take advantage of all the options that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as well as related rules of procedure and recommendations, as this is not only our right, this is primarily our duty. And since I have some time left, let's get the numbers out. My friend Vinko and I are very fond of numbers. The United Left won 52 thousand 189 votes. [[advertising from the hall]] Messengers. No, all of it. [[...]] I'm personally -- please don't touch my word, sir. I personally only got 560 votes, and that's great for me. If I were more popular, it'd be weird. I don't want to be very popular. The SDS only got 5.46 times ours, so I'm going to quote a colleague, a client. Once upon a time, about 20 years ago, this party won, if memory doesn't deceive me, even less percentages and votes than the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek. How will it be, I hope that in four years' time the electorate will decide who will then be the party, who will then be the party? Although it might be the partisan interest of the United Left that the elections are earlier, I personally do not wish that. I wish the government a successful job. Plus, I'd like to welcome and congratulate the e-horse of your party, who has already congratulated me on the fact that there are a lot of idiots and assholes among the mindless, Slovenian intellectuals, but you're an idiot pair of excellencies. Let us be aware that the level of debate that takes place here will be 10 times worse in public. I can speak in very different language positions. In those I can't, Violet will teach me, but I'd like to speak in the higher positions of the language. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u175	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u176	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr President! It is common for every time a new government or its president to draw up not only a substantive work programme but also a new organizational structure for the government before the establishment of the government. This determines the new number of ministries, the division of work areas between them. It is therefore the sole responsibility of the future coalition, but Slovenia is in a state of deep economic and financial crisis with a high public financial deficit in the time of this government, as in the election of the previous two governments. Such a situation, ladies and gentlemen, implies austerity in all areas of work, including in the field of the functioning of the state administration. That is exactly what the government, in which we participated in Christian Democrats, was well aware of and supported the reduction in the number of ministries from 18 to 12. The reduction in the number of ministries is not only a reduction in the costs for the functioning of the state administration, which may not have a significant impact in fiscal terms, but nevertheless the financial consequences of the increase in the number of ministries from 12 to 14 and the possibility of two ministers without a licence are estimated at about a million and a half euros. Ladies and gentlemen, this amount, say write, is enough for about 85,000 meals per month of school lunch. Thus, increasing the number of ministries is primarily a symbolic message given by the President of the Government at the start of his work to all the public sector and also to citizens. During this time of crisis, it should be considered that saving or rationalising the costs of the functioning of the state administration should begin first with it, first with the government coalition itself. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in this case it is an example. And we were also expecting a message from Members of the New Slovenia – the newly elected Prime Minister of the Government. In particular, we expected the number of ministries to remain at the current level or even, given that the crisis has increased significantly, to a large extent. For this would be the true example of men, that we should not live in the days of corruption. Therefore, the proposed amendment and the amendment of the Government Act brings a renewed increase in the number of ministries from the current 12 to 14. In doing so, I would like to remind the President of the Government and the future coalition that such changes, in addition to what we have already mentioned in our view as an incorrect symbolic message, do not, as a rule, bring added value to the efficiency of the work, but, on the contrary, new delays in their work, and we estimate at least half a year's dead course, because employees are dealing with the organisation instead of substantive matters, moving, dividing balance sheets, new systems, adapting the information system and so on. I hope you're aware of that. The resolution of basic substantive matters is therefore postponed for at least half a year, usually even for one year or more. The permanent reorganisations of the government and the ministries have contributed greatly to the delays in individual ministries, so it must be up to the decision whether the reorganisation of the government is really necessary, carefully weighed and carried out only if it is justified from a substantive point of view. That's not the case. In New Slovenia, we are also critical of opening up the possibility of appointing two new ministers without resources, since, for the first time, it is not clear which area the ministers will cover, secondly, what their work will involve, and thirdly, what they will be responsible for. At the same time, we wonder whether in this case the appointment of two ministers without resources may be for the human resources needs of you, the future coalition, or whether there is an option or a room for manoeuvre for any new party in your coalition. Let me finish. It is an unnecessary expansion of the bureaucratic apparatus and an increase in its expenditure, without carefully weighing the right expected effects. As a result, Members of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats for Amendments and Supplement to the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will not be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr Tanko rightly had a comment, which he did not make publicly, but here that the debate by Dr Franca Duck was a bit inappropriate. It would be better to avoid some expressions, so please, if we stick to it. Mr Jani Möderndorfer, Alliance of Alenka Bratušek, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u178	Your Honor! Today we are adopting a government law, which is a fundamental act with which the future government will start to apply what it actually received as an electoral task, and in fact, it has committed itself to its programme and not least to the coalition agreement. In the Alliance, we are convinced that all governments have so far, from 1990 to today, adopted this law in an urgent way, relatively quickly, and above all, most importantly, they have adapted it to their needs, which is nothing wrong and nothing wrong. The fact is that at some stage of populism it is possible, of course, that some governments have been reducing and justifying this to be a cost reduction, but some have, of course, increased the number of ministries and convinced in a way that it is a more thorough work, so that it will be better and better done. Such a debate took place on the Committee yesterday, and, of course, it did not have much effect on us. But, of course, there was something else, something that was most important to us. In fact, before the elections in the Alliance, we introduced a new law on the government, where we wanted to define very clearly who the minister or secretary of state could be. That's when we got the evidence from today's coalition partners, SD and DeSUS that they won't sign such a law because it's a pre-election pamphlet, and that these are things that are regulated after the elections. Interestingly, today, when we are elected, this issue is not resolved within this law. If, in the phase, given that the article is open and that is yet to be rectified, this will not be changed, of course, it is more than clear and we are predicting today that we will introduce a new amendment to the government law in the Alliance, where we will only deal with this part. I trust and hope that, according to the procedure, you will also be able to join in this process, so that we can arrange and make clear in the Slovenian space who the Minister can be. We also wanted to settle this issue in the Law on Members, and it was very clear at the time that this issue had already been resolved. As we see today, it's not arranged. I hope we can handle this at least in this area. In the end, let me say what's more important to me. Indeed, in the Alliance of this Law we will not support, not because we would oppose this law, far away from it, but because we think and are convinced that this is the first law that the new coalition must adopt itself and that, finally, it also makes very clear and shows how much of it will actually work in this mandate, and thus, of course, it also assumes all responsibility. At the same time, in the Alliance, we wish the coalition a happy hand at work, as well as the results that we will face in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u179	The text is addressed to the Italian and Hungarian national groups, Dr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u180	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia introduces changes that are forecast to follow the planned nature and content of the work of the new government coalition. This is about content, that is, setting up ministries or departments, which always gives a lot of opportunity to discuss such and different natures. I do not think that there is any greater need for this today. Indeed, it would be difficult to dispute the claim that the organisation of the government's activities can be most competently decided by the government's own coalition. In our Group of Members, we will somehow respect this principle. Nevertheless, we are all well aware that the increase in the number of ministries and ministers is always, and in the given circumstances, so much more, an unpopular move that can be presented in different ways in public. Because of the difficult financial situation and the behaviour of various abuses in the past, it is understandable that the public is not inclined to make any such changes. Whether the result of the proposed changes on the organisation of government resources will be positive or negative at this time is objectively impossible to predict, but this will certainly depend on the new government's own approach to the precise, operational organisation of work and the efforts made to make it work effectively. Only successful, substantively optimal and ethically indisputable work of ministries and ministers can justify the proposed number of increases in resources. In doing so, we believe it will be a basic condition if, in the future, bad practices are not applied many times so far. With the sincere intention of working effectively and effectively for the benefit of the state and citizens, despite the numerical increase in resources sources, it will be possible to stay within the current financial framework or even lower. The latter would be the most appropriate communication on the genuine intentions of the new government. However, if formalism, partial interests and stereotypes of bad solutions will also be at the forefront of the future, the train will already be driven to the side track, where there will be no efficiency. Another issue, which I will briefly discuss, is the necessity of the functioning of the government and other state bodies and public institutions in accordance with the law. At the very least, it may sound strange to note this in particular, but we are all well aware that this is justifiable. In recent days, we have been more determined, led by Mr Cerar, that, unfortunately in Slovenia, almost no law is implemented consistently. Unfortunately, this gap, or negative continuity, has sometimes started in the very workings of the government and its services and later reached into all the tissues of society. In such a bad practice, which at the same time entails inefficiency, intransparency and corruption, it should not remain in the future. Although it is not directly the subject of today's content of the law, but of the Law on State Administration, I think it is important to stress, however, that, in terms of the exercise of special rights or the rights of indigenous national communities and the implementation of government policies in this area, including commitments under the proposal for a coalition treaty, the Office of Nationality should also be able to carry out its task effectively. In our view, the status quo is appropriate, which in itself is not sufficient. The organisation and content of the work of the Office and its important mission to coordinate the policy area of the national communities within the Executive Branch of the Authority will need to be established meaningfully, transparently and in particular effectively. In fact, it will have to be brought closer to the interests of those for whom or why it exists. Recognizing that there are many problems in this area in terms of efficiency and that the number of members of national communities is being reduced in proportion to the extent that legislation is relatively good, this is all the more important. We hope that in finding legal solutions, the new government coalition will be a partner, which will also focus on our views and proposals and suggestions from other eligible actors of national and ethnic communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Mir Cerar Group of the Party, mag. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u182	Thank you for your word, chairman. As some colleagues have already said before me, the coalition has established in its contract certain basic starting points of action, including, inter alia, a predictable and simple business environment, an environment to develop the professional potential of public servants and quality public services. Of course, the law that we have proposed together, Members of the SMC, DeSUS and SD, follows these fundamental points of action of the coalition. The new law introduces 14 ministries and one without a department for relations of the Republic of Slovenia with the indigenous Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries and for the participation of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians around the world. In addition, the law allows for the appointment of two other ministries without a director. The reasons leading up to such proposed arrangements are, in particular, the need for reorganisation, in order to create more efficient decision-making processes, greater operationality, better coordination and coherence between public servants and the content of specific areas. The law introduces two new ministries: the Ministry of Public Administration, which will take over part of the working areas of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice, and the Ministry of Environment and Space, which will transfer part of the work of the environment from the current Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment and will be re-designated the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and the establishment of a work area within the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space. Following the current restructuring, individual ministries have been overly extensive and, therefore, certain issues have not been given the same attention as other areas, making operational operations to a large extent difficult and preventing an effective approach to solving specific problems. We will deal in more detail with the organisation of ministries following the new government ministers' oath, when we also approach the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u183	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u184	Thank you very much. We will not support the SDS Group in spite of the proposed amendment to the law. And in the minutes that I have at my disposal, I will also try to explain why. I brought myself not a big reminder, but this document. This is a document where he says: Party Mira Cerar – program. Very interesting reading. On page 20, I've counted so many, even though they're not marked, it says you'll do a lean and transparent administration. Bravo! Congratulations. This is also logical, for all economic and financial indicators go down. But one is your program, and the other is your actions. But your actions are written in the law before us. And in this law, it says the following. I will do a comparison for the government of Janez Janša and Alenka Bratušek and what you suggest. In 2011, the economic and financial situation was not as it is today. He's been a long, I don't know, financiers know that better than I do, about 16 billion. Today is 28, 29. And then the government of Janez Janša adopted a law that had 11 ministries and 12 ministers. The last one is for the Slovenians in the place and in the world. Alenka Bratušek passed a law a year later, after which it was 12 plus 1, that is 13 ministers. And you've brought the law under the password of a slim and transparent administration, which is what your programme, which is 14 plus 3 ministers. Bravo! Fourteen plus three ministers. Let's see what it's like in other countries. Of course, you mentioned in the document countries and comparisons that suit you. In fact, everywhere in the document, there is an international comparison in the bill and they have the same or higher number of ministries everywhere. But you forgot that Austria has 4 times more inhabitants than Slovenia, 8 million, and it has 13 ministries. Portugal has 13 ministries at 10 million. Finland has 12 ministries at 5.5 million. Hungary, there is that strange Prime Minister who receives a constitutional majority and has 8 ministries. And last but not least, Switzerland's richest has seven ministries. One of the poorest countries, Slovenia, will have 17 ministries. It doesn't work together. And now that I have too little time - then I'll take enough. Yesterday, Dr. Kustec, you explained and taught the Internal Policy Committee that the analysis showed that the reduction in the number of ministries in 2011 was not effective and that there was no plus, there were no positive results. I asked you to give me a single analysis, and then you gave me a list of stupidities. You were talking about Umar, and I don't know what. But today you have changed tactics, Madam Head of the Parliamentary Group, and you have said that from 2008 to now GDP is falling. If GDP is falling, then give a smaller number of ministries, no larger. So, you've made an excellent explanation why the number of ministries should be smaller, but it's bigger. If GDP is falling, then there is less money in the country and one would expect fewer ministers. Then you talked about unemployment, which has been growing since 2008. It's true, but since there are more unemployed people, the state needs money for them, and there could be fewer ministries. Excellent explanation for fewer ministries. The country's debt has been growing for a long time. Yeah, so we have less money and we should have fewer ministers, and you're doing more. 392 thousand people are below the threshold of poverty — another proof that the number of ministries must be smaller. Of course you're going to a larger number of ministries. Look, at least in the parliamentary group I belong to, we can't support it, and we won't. With the amendment, we are trying to fix something small so that by 1 December 2015 you can do an analysis of your effectiveness, or that the government will do it, and that the government will also know if something is better now that there are 17 ministers, than when there were 11, 12, or 13. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u185	Thank you very much. The text is given by the DeSUS Group of Members, Mr Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u186	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to brief you on the position of the Desus Group. The main information or message: Members and Members of the DeSUS Group will unanimously support the amendment of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Why? At DeSUS, we are doing our best to stabilise and normalise the situation in our country as soon as possible and to adopt those measures that will lead to economic growth and the preservation and development of the social state. That is why we actively cooperated or cooperated because, as you know, the coalition treaty is practically realized, in the establishment, in the formation of a new government. 25. 8. We unanimously supported Dr. Mir Cerar as Prime Minister of the Government. The next step is to amend this act, which is now on our parliamentary benches, and also to follow up on the activities that will lead to the achievement of the objectives set. However, for the Government to work as quickly and efficiently as possible, this law must be adopted and supplemented. Of course, we have the utmost confidence in the mandate-holder that the composition and organisation of ministries, such as the proposed amendment or amendment of the law, will enable us to carry out effectively the tasks required by future coalition partners. With the hope of establishing such an organisational structure that will work effectively for the benefit of all our citizens and citizens, we will therefore support the proposed document by Members and Members of the DeSUS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u187	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Matjaž Hanžek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u188	Thank you very much. I would add some of my thoughts or our thoughts to the debate so far. Thinking about the number of ministries in the way of fewer ministries will be better and cheaper for Slovenia is a little strange logic. If I have a bit of a laugh: let's shut down all ministries, and it will be great in Slovenia, and then the government and parliament can. I think that we need to think about this in the context of the development policy that the rulings want. Given that we do not know precisely enough about the development preferences of the future government, we leave it to them that they probably know why these ministries need them. But I have a double relationship with the ministries. On the one hand, I think some things are very good, such as separation of internal affairs and public administration. But for some people I'm not gonna be too grave, I don't know exactly why they are. Ministers without a license, or ministers with an unspecified portfolio, are a little bit of a problem for me. You may be surprised, but I must commend the first government of Janez Janša in 2004, which first separated the public administration from the internal affairs, and I must say that this separation worked extremely well mainly for the organisation of public administration. As the Ombudsman, I know that at the time, at least this work worked very well. However, I certainly do not think that the separation of infrastructure from the environment and space is likely to be too effective. But since we're letting the government know, maybe I'll hold on.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u189	The word is Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u190	Dear President! It is true that I myself am a little surprised when today the representative of the Mir Cerar Party changed her position to a large extent from what we could have listened to on the home committee yesterday. In fact, we wanted to point out in a constructive way that increasing the number of ministers does not mean and is not a guarantee for better, quality work of public administration, and that there is no criterion to ensure this. At the table we also received a defense of why the number of ministers should be increased. Among other things, it has been stated that the draft law has no direct financial implications for the state budget and other public funds. Today we have heard a slightly different story – that funds are, of course, necessary, but in some ways to ignore them in view of the greater efficiency that the new ministry or the new cabinet will bring and everything else that I judge. We're talking about about about a million and more euros. We also heard numbers today – because yesterday we also discussed that there are no analyses – about how many unemployed are, what is the state of the economy and what is the financial state of our country. It's like we're talking about increasing or strengthening ministries in the field of economy or finance. But, Your Honor, we're talking about a weaker country. But how can it be easier if we do not spend money in areas where the state does not directly acquire funds but is more at the consumer level? Therefore, we cannot support this in any way, much more so as the past governments, at least the government of Janez Janša from 2012–13, which worked with the 12 ministers, are, according to the criteria – the numbers are known – proof that it is possible to work effectively with fewer ministers as well. I understand that there are not many colleagues and colleagues today, because shopping about various ministers, ministerial seats, secretaries and so on is more important than talking about how we are going to spend tax money today. However, I urge you once again to think about it and to change and reduce the number of ministries and not increase. As a result, the country will not act more effectively. He won't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Dr. Dragan Matić has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u192	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Colleagues and Fellow Members! Today's debate will obviously go in the same direction as yesterday's debate on the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government. There our colleagues from the SDS taught us that, in fact, the emerging coalition and the President of the Government should take into account some kind of survey. They did not specify who ordered them and who paid them, but these surveys were now intended to be merciless in terms of what the future government would look like. In doing so, of course, they clearly ignored the fact that the poll of 13 July this year made clear to whom our electorates and voters had given their trust. On the basis of these specific numbers, a coalition is formed. The President of the Government has a clear view of what and how to work in the future, and also a coalition agreement is before the parish. Each coalition has a tool to implement its policy called government. As this will be structured, it is generally left to the coalition, how many ministries it will have, that it can be effective, as it is expected, and that it will ultimately assume responsibility for all that the coalition programme says. And if, in the past, it has often been pointed out that too much has been done by the public administration in our country, especially in the area of environment and space, then it is perfectly logical that special attention should be paid to these areas, and it is logical that these areas also need to be given to the political leader of the appropriate rank, who will be given intensive attention and who will also be able to carry out reforms in such a way as is comparable in other countries. Bidding with the number of ministries down to make that government that curses the ministry more successful or to work more correctly is, in my opinion, completely depressed. The reference to the past good practice of the government of Janez Janša also showed, in at least one case, that it was a disaster, when the Ministry of Culture was drowned in a super ministry at the time and in fact many areas of culture were lagging behind in the operation of this super ministry. And the reaction was clear. The culturers were on the road in 2012 and made clear how they felt about such reforms and such super ministries, where one person can know everything and knows everything about very different areas. But it is frightening what turned out yesterday when an amendment came from the SDS that proposed the same – to abolish culture again and drown it again in some kind of MIZKŠ. I am afraid that some who, although highly professed as patriots and also wear Slovenian flag badges on their speakers, forget that this country and the Slovenian nation are based on culture, Slovenian language and that culture deserves its resort. This must be borne in mind when ministries are so easily plagued with some fears about how the establishment of one or more new ministries would bring some additional costs. The material clearly states that new jobs are not foreseen. Counting the wages and the difference between how much one minister receives instead of the Secretary of State who would lead this area, I doubt that he will bring all the millions listed by his colleagues in the SDS, but he would not let that happen. It was about one million or one million and a half, I don't know exactly, I don't remember the exact number, and for a period of all four years, there will be no mistake. But look, when they're so afraid of how tax money is spent, we can mention a recent archive referendum. By forcing an archival referendum and spending 3.5 million euros – although the archival profession told them that the amendment of the archival law was not wrong and that it was in fact fulfilling and complementing only what the 2006 law had already defined, they forced this referendum, and there was no fear of tax money, although it was a one-off project, but here it was a systemic solution for the entire term. Therefore, I ask that we give up a little bit of change and that we stop with some terrible screaming, how this is some colossal, huge damage that will come with what is actually routine and what is happening at the time of every government. Each government has the right to form its own resources so that it can take responsibility for its work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u193	Thank you very much. The word is Mrs. Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u194	Thank you so much for saying that. The SMC coalition is talking about rationalisation and optimisation in the public sector by increasing the number of ministries. In the spring, the ministries were infuriating the public authorities with certain government conclusions that we should not employ additionally in the public sector, even though through public tendering certain projects they required employment. At that time, we were told that rationalisation and optimisation was a reduction in employment and that we should be doing reorganisation within public institutions themselves. Now you're telling me that optimisation and rationalisation is expanding the number of ministries and consequently the number of employees in the public sector, in the ministries, and not telling me that this will not happen, because each minister will make his own cabinet, set up his own people, which is perfectly normal. Normally, he wants to have people around him who trust them. In addition, the coalition, i.e. the same people, who have taken decisions on non-employment in the public sector. I wonder if you really believe that because of the number of ministries, there has not been an increase in GDP, that we have therefore collected fewer taxes, that very many young people have moved away, that the rate of social exclusion is higher, that more people are below the poverty line – all because of the number of ministries. If you really believe that, then reduce it, not increase it. We can also have 20 or 30 if you think this will really help raise GDP. I think you really believe the public sector is raising GDP. Six months of dead running, we've heard that, because officials are going to have to move from one office to another, and they're going to go hunting, and so on. This is where the money will be spent, and the economy is sinking nicely, and the economy is the one that raises GDP, which will allow young people to stay in Slovenia, and not the public sector that you are deliberately increasing. With the creation of new ministries, some new officials will, of course, be employed, red tape in our love country will be even bigger, which is already a very soulful economy, and economicists will no longer know at the end which ministry to turn to for any requests that need to wait for up to two years at some point. For the new changes in the sector, I fear that this will mean new bad practices, so I do not believe that this is an efficiency and rationalisation when you are increasing ministries. You're giving us comparisons from countries like Norway, France, Poland, but these countries are at a completely different level in the economy than we are, and if we were a wealthy country, I say we could have 20, 30 ministries. As already mentioned, you are talking about optimization in the pre-election programme or SMC. I think you've been deceiving people, or we're interpreting this term differently, or we're imagining it differently. I really want you to reduce bureaucracy with this increase in ministries, increase GDP, maintain jobs or increase them and keep young people in the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Sluga has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u196	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll be very brief. I would like to point out that, in the past, it has been shown several times that only the number of ministries does not, in any case, constitute a prioritisation of smaller or higher costs for their work, but to the extent that the extent to which a specific ministry or ministry controls affects the quality of their work, and that is the essence of this proposal. In the first place, it is a matter of separating individual areas that may receive more attention to this account than has been the case so far. Some have even been somewhat neglected so far, and this change will be welcome in this direction. As has also been pointed out and as stated in the proposal, the increase in the number of ministries does not provide for new jobs, but only the distribution of employees and redeployments. This will increase the responsibility and effectiveness of each employee. On the other hand, there are some expected long-term good effects of this reorganisation, and these are, in our view, significantly greater than the possible negative effects that this reorganisation can bring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u197	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u198	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. In his inaugural address, the new mandate holder, Mr Miro Cerar, used the phrase: "The government will strive to promote health in Slovenia." I don't know exactly what he meant by those words. You may know this from his close associates, who on Monday boasted that you had known him for about a month or two. But let's just say that I make some sense of this statement, and some sense of this statement only makes sense if I interpret it in such a way that this government will make sound decisions. But the proposal of this novel law goes in the opposite direction, away from soundness of mind. See, any proposal for a novel must have some reason, some reason that the bill or novelty has been submitted and justifying this amendment. You have put these reasons into one sentence: "The reorganisation of ministries will ensure greater transparency and efficiency and facilitate the implementation of established policies and programmes." It's the only sentence that talks about it, but it's a circular definition, it says something is going to happen because you say so. Today, a polytologist explained to us that he justified and further explained this proposal that the reduction in the number of ministries had not spared GDP or that, due to the reduction in the number of ministries of GDP, there had been absolutely no increase, that the number of those who were moving out had not decreased and that the number of those living below the poverty line had not decreased. But if you have such an argument for the proposal of this novel, I don't know, then you've forgotten about the stomach, the floods, the inappropriately cold August. You link the reasons and consequences that have absolutely no connection and no meaning. In this proposal you also mention the five countries with which you justify your decision, but this is very unfortunate. You specify Norway – they have oil. You refer to France, where there are 60 million inhabitants, but, my dear, the ministries are in France 16. You're proposing 17 ministries. Then we are talking about Poland, where there was no crisis at all due to a timely response and good policy, and Ireland, which also has fewer ministries than you suggest, which is already from the crisis. You will also note that resources for the implementation of the law are provided and no additional new funds will be needed. Then, in Article 4, state that there will be a need for a rebalancing. Yes, why is the balance taken if not because the budget is underbudgeted? An interesting nuance is also in the explanatory note to Article 2, where you write on page 10: "It is about adapting to the new third paragraph of Article 8, which introduces a larger number of ministries without a source." Attention, semantic nuance – introduces, does not allow. In fact, you admit that this proposal introduces 17 ministries in Slovenia. Do you know what that means? That's five additional ministers. That's five cabinets. That's 10 Secretaries of State. This is a service for 50 party people, of whom, every minister per year, with only two state secretaries, is worth about 200,000 euros. Calculate this times 5 and calculate this times 4 years. And in a situation where your President of the Government considers the country financially ill. Very good. In point 1, the assessment of the situation, you've also made a big mistake. I'm sorry to use that term, but that's what you did with this proposal. You wrote that despite the forecasts of previous governments, this did not bring about an anticipated reduction in spending costs. I will read you a statement sent by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for communication and where it tells us about these savings in terms of reducing the number of ministries. It says, I quote: "Only the savings in the salaries of ministers and secretaries at the annual level amount to almost half a million euros." This means that now that you are returning to 17, you are adding an additional half million euros. And then, you're talking about that the reduction of ministers didn't bring savings, as far as public servants are concerned. According to data from the ministries, the amount of wages paid for employees in ministries in July 2012 is lower by €3.85 million, a savings of €46.2 million at the annual level. But that's just as much as you've given DeSUS leave to have a majority guaranteed in this National Assembly. You further say that you are, on the contrary, explaining in particular areas that efficiency has even decreased. Oh, come on. In order to reduce the efficiency of ministries, efficiency has decreased. While they are not currently sitting in this Chamber because they are not monitoring the debate, they are sitting in that government which has cut down ministries, Mr Gantar and Mr Karl Erjavec also sat. I've sat at every government meeting. At no government meeting, the government complained that the efficiency of the government had decreased due to the merger or the reduction in the number of ministries. And you write that down in your proposal. Moreover, these two former ministers, who will be now, have signed this proposal. So in three years, you've completely changed your mind. Moreover, if I quote the words of the oldest member of Mrs Porotat, she said at the time of the reduction in the number of ministries: "This will increase the efficiency of the state administration; the efforts of DeSUS have gone all the way in this direction." 26. 1. 2012. And today the same Member without shame will sign the opposite position. Let's keep moving. "We think that the current composition of the government is inappropriate. The existing organisation of ministries does not enable the effective management and implementation of the required policies." SD and Desus. The SD suffered for a year and a half in the government, which had such an inadequate composition of ministries, never said anything. Moreover, at the time of his appointment in March 2013, Dejan Židan said that this was considered to be the best government in the history of Slovenia, despite the fact that the current composition, which is still in force, was inadequate and that it did not allow the effective management and implementation of the policies required. In DeSUS, which is apparently even more flexible, this government has suffered for three years and has never complained. But today they're signing these documents. Mr Cerar, at the beginning of the last time, spoke somewhat less about numbers if you don't operate with numbers, because they won't tell you anything anyway. He cited the example of TES. Bad choice. By the way, if these numbers were not there at all, we wouldn't know that investment was three times irrigated. But if the new mantra of the Mir Cerar Party is that you don't operate with numbers, but only with ethical principles, then why did you write the upper limit of the ministries in this proposal? Why did you stop at number 17? Why don't you determine the number of ministries according to moral standards? What you will find at a given moment is that it requires more efficiency, and the Human Rights Council of Europe and the principles of the Council of Europe, an additional ministry, you will set up. Why are you so self-absorbed? Simona Kustec Lipicer then, even at the inaugural speech when she spoke in the final debate about Mir Cerar, used words that when we were talking about Mir Cerar, we were talking about the historical phenomenon. Even these words, I have to say, I find it difficult to understand, but I can say that if this proposal for the amendment of the law is an indication of what proposals of the law will come to the table of Members in this mandate, I don't know, but then we will really witness some historical phenomenon, only when the bills come at the expense of taxpayers, these consequences will be lasting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mrs. Nada Brinovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u200	Thank you for your word. Slovenia, at least in my opinion, is at some point, I stress, at a point where there is no way we can afford to enrich the public sector or public administration. As we have already heard in the debate today, we have about 4,000 of our citizens living on the brink of social distress, about 120 000 are unemployed, and this increase in ministries will also put a considerable burden on you. Even the worst burden in a negative sense will be our economy. I must say that I expected this government to imagine some concept of lean and productive public administration. This was also expected by our citizens, who also expressed this in their survey, even though we did not state or cite the source of the survey, but was published on Monday morning. The proposal to amend the law before us is also without any substantive analysis and without financial structure. You say that this reorganisation or increase in the number of ministries will have no financial implications. And there will be financial consequences. I hope that we will finally get a report on the effectiveness of this law, as we have requested by our initiative or by introducing this amendment. I believe that we should think primarily in the direction of bringing ministries together and thus somehow align or identify ourselves with other countries, as already mentioned in the debate today, with comparable European countries. However, if we were already thinking about increasing the number of ministries, it would probably be good to think about ministries that bring some added value, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, European Affairs and so on. However, I must say that I am happy today, given that no one from the SMC came forward on the Internal Policy Committee yesterday, but today it is very nice that all the debaters have applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u202	Thank you. I would like to say that the majority of the dilemmas that we hear here today actually relate to the financial effects that the adoption of the law would bring. However, I would like to point out that the purpose of the coalition is not to create additional and higher costs. Above all, we are focused on the content, and I do not think anyone here in the hall can deny that certain areas need substantive movements. I'm sure it's the public administration that's been pounding on our economy. Also, local self-government in its size and lack of financial resources needs some integration in projects as well as the absorption of European funds. Environmental and space areas, which are somehow related in a generic way, are also the basis for sustainable development and for progress. And I would just like to point out that this content that we want to achieve is not always judged on the basis of financial logic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u203	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u204	Thank you for your word. We had a long and wide discussion yesterday. I spoke with an SDS associate outside recently. I'll try to be a little shorter this time because I know one of you want to go home. I have a lot of energy, even though I only drink water. Mainly when I was watching this, this proposal – colleague Irgle has such a beautiful smile, it has confused me now. When I looked at this proposal – of course, the government coalition chose some countries that, in their own words, fit it. It made me crazy that they were watching it from too close. I'm going to read a little of what I've outlined. I'm going to repeat myself a little bit yesterday, but the audience is watching this, you won't believe it, I agree with your colleague. A lot of people watch this because with the money they have, there's nothing left. You know, I don't live in some crazy heights. I have in my immediate family a lady who is working full-time and working on a pension of €447. I have an unemployed brother in the White Land, I have a gentleman, a father who's been waiting too long for surgery and so on. Why am I saying this? There's probably a few of us here that I won't be listening to in advance like I'm, I don't know, some espouse with 7 million on my supervisor. In short, what I was underlining here. I will read only for Norway and France: the Ministry of Children, Equality and Social Inclusion, the Ministry of Health and Health, the Ministry of Justice and Public Security, the Ministry of Local Self-Government and Modernisation, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Development, the Ministry of Environment, Sustainable Development and Energy, the Ministry of Economy, Production Revitalisation and the Digital Sector, the Ministry of Women's Rights, Urban Affairs, Youth and Sport – I like this very much – the Ministry of Decentralisation and Public Services – I also like this – the Ministry of Housing and Regional Equality. When I go to read this proposal, as I have already said at the meeting of the committee, the future Slovenian government on ministries, it is mildly boring. They're not the names of the ministries I've read from these two countries, just like that. If I go to the web portal of France and Norway and look at the names of these ministries, it is immediately clear to me where a development policy of one country and another goes. That's one thing. Although we are ideologically very different, somehow we agreed on a number of issues between opposition Members and Members of the Committee. We agreed that the Mir Cerar Party had prepared this proposal somewhat embarrassingly, to put it mildly. I even said that if this or something like that were to be prepared by the United Left, the experts would have stopped us somewhere, and they would have said, "Look at this article, and look up and down." Based on some backside that you still have a lot of. You're not a stranger to paraphrasing again, you're a "pagetine." And you can do that in the future, please. We want the analysis! Comrade Hanžek has already said, the ministry, this, up or down, colleague Gorenak stopped at 12, I would probably put them on the 11th. But if you have to have so many ministries instead of those two without a license, why don't you have a ministry for young people, or a ministry for poverty eradication or something like that? At the same time, I would like to say that we are complaining about each other – I hope that this will be less in the future – and we also insult many fellow citizens and fellow citizens. The third branch of power is in a state of madness, and this could be limited by the chairman. Crazy complaining publicly right now. We are, after all, a public administration, but you know. Of course it's a question of public administration, how, how, how, how and down. I'm not going to mention the percentages again, Poland, Denmark, one, the other. We need to ask ourselves what we want with this public administration and how to reorganise it somehow. I mentioned it the last time, but when I was more worried that they were in the first place, the press said, "Will the Duck be on somebody's mouth?" I'm soft, don't be afraid, I won't be squirming about in the future, I hope. In short, the question of public administration, what do we want with public administration? But to go back. That's when I mentioned Canada. I have a lot of relatives in Canada, something to take responsibility for. Oh, my God, now they're gonna have secret jobs to do. We really need to keep an eye on them. In short, Canada – I think Dr. Kovac was the only one who wrote here. Canada has embarked on some reforms and has put these reforms in time and space with a timeline, with some horizontal link between many sectors and ministries. I can agree with my colleague Simono that everything cannot be measured and measured, but, say, this is some minimum expectation that I expect from such a large party as you, and from this coalition. I expect in half a year – it does not have to be a 500-page document, because then half of the Members and Members will not read it, but I expect some 300-page document, where you will clearly say, operationalised across sectors, how we will measure this, how we will check which stakeholders will be involved, how we will use a metaphor that is not even so kind to take this car up and down. After all, Slovenia does not go so badly again. We're also pitiful to the economy. On the board yesterday and today, I listened: the economy is falling, everything is falling apart. Let's get some positives! There are certain segments of the economy that are doing well, there are certain segments of the economy that could be doing better, even if we are going to behave a little more normally here. I'll stop here. I said I wouldn't be too long. In the end, I'd just like to talk a little bit more about gross social life. Sounds very learned, of course, to use it, up and down. Now comes some new methodology for measuring this. If I'm a little cynical, I can say, you know, if we buy 400 new patriots now, the gross socialist will go up -- if we have a place to take them from. But it is probably better to think in the direction of whether we will take Slovenia in the direction of completing business, because according to the new methodology, this is slightly different, whether the new government will go more seriously in the search for so-called market niche in the economy. I am more interested in what will be the difference between gross and net, not talking about net national. I won't bother you with your methodology now. I've been doing this for 20 years. I advise the opposition and the government and all those who will debate this: let us first learn. I've always had trouble with my students who don't like to read, you know, those reports from the Bureau of Statistics, those first couple of pages to read, because they tell you what's actually going on in there. If we're going to save some fate that I would leave to the third branch of power, and I don't want to talk about it anymore, we're going to have to do it again and again, and read a little bit about what's going on. I'm basically afraid for your leader. I'm afraid he's going to shoot someone's movie and maybe he's going to shoot, you know? [[...]] I would advise that he has a slightly stronger police escort. But let's get on with it. Who are we today? In six months, the government, if it's not on the table, I'll call a press conference. Thank you. But I won't write it to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u206	Thank you for your word. We are now talking about the amendment, and I will first say that I support this amendment, which reduces the deadline from 90 days to 60 days, because at that time all the authorities of the Ministry should adopt acts on internal organisation and systematisation. However, I would like to say that every government has the opportunity, the right to form areas, the resources as it has imagined, but an increase in the number of ministries at this time does not seem to be an ideal and a good solution. Because ministries operate within one government, and we know that ministries are not located in one place, they are not located in one location, that they are also quite scattered within the same ministry, and so on, that we communicate today via emails, through other networks, and that we do not necessarily sit together. I think it is more important to have a good organisation of work, and I think we can do this without establishing new ministries and without having new ministers. Ministers and secretaries of state are political officials, otherwise responsible for an area, representing an area, but those who prepare documents, professional co-workers, are not ministers. I understand that some areas also have their own representative role as their minister. For example, I agreed that we have a Minister for Culture, including a Minister for Slovenians in place and around the world, because this is a representative role to play in supporting our fellow citizens around the world and in place. But I don't understand why we're gonna have two new ministers without a license. Is it just to satisfy party demands, coalition demands, or for what? Look, ministers, state secretaries are officials, and operational work is done by employees in ministries, and you say you will not increase employment. So, I see no reason why we should have additional officials, who, of course, have their own cabinets and so on. I don't think that's good enough. And it is a shame that, for example, when a government does take difficult steps and reduces the administration, it reduces the costs for another government to increase them again. I think that if the previous government had taken some important steps to reduce, it would not have gone further personally. Now you're going to be three parties in the government coalition, and I think there's more than enough free ministerial posts for three parties. At the time of the previous government, there were five parties and there were also enough ministerial cities. And because of this, it is not important to meet the coalition needs and there is no need for more ministers, and not even ministers without a charter for certain areas that we do not even know what these ministers will cover. It also makes sense for us to get a report from the Members on the work of the ministries, whether this reorganisation made sense or whether the work was more effective. However, we will best see that a report is good if citizens are more satisfied if we adopt municipal spatial plans more quickly, if we can get to construction permits faster, if they can set up businesses faster if we give the economy such an environment so that it can create new jobs and so on. This will be the most important report – people's satisfaction. I certainly want this government to do as soon as possible what you do with the reorganisation. But, of course, I also need to point out what people who are working in ministries are writing to me, how much they have to do with it, how much they have to do with it, with the reorganisation, because it is not only the ministries, but also the bodies in the structure, from the new systemisations to the divisional balance sheets, budgetary changes and so on. The whole bunch of these things are listed in one of the letters, so of course it brings this cost, it also brings with it the fact that employees cannot do what is their primary task because they are dealing with themselves. We have to think about all of this, and someone said to me, "It would be best if we set up these ministries once and for all, but then peace or change with a two-thirds majority, because in fact these changes bring great costs." At the same time, as I have already said, all ministries operate within the same government and therefore only a good organisation can help improve the situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u208	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nicely greeted! I, too, somehow understand that the future coalition, or the current coalition, somehow wants to organise the work in its own way. However, somehow I cannot agree that the reason for the increase of ministries is, in fact, four, two without a resource, greater efficiency and operationality. Somehow these two don't work out for me. She'd point out two of her own. It is important to take into account, in particular, the functionality of state and public administration towards citizens. After all, they are the ones who entrusted us with the mandate. And, of course, the financial sustainability of such an organisation. So based on this should be the starting point for setting up your organisation, your new structures should be exactly what citizens really need. And in a way, I believe that citizens today would not agree with you that you need four ministries anymore. You better focus on changing the organisation of work yourself and start coming out of the process. Only then might we see that the actual change in structure is not necessary at all. I'm sure of it. As far as financial sustainability is concerned, you yourself have already done very well in the very beginning with a single set of data. Perhaps I would point out here only the deficit we already have in the first seven months of production, almost 920 million, representing 90% of the planned deficit for this year, and these are actual figures. And I can't imagine how you're going to run an organization inside of this. Please don't tell me and write that this has no direct financial implications for the budget. I'm sure he does. I've never seen a ministry without a cabinet, and the cabinet isn't just a minister, they're state secretaries, and they're other advisors, administration. So I simply do not support your proposal because I believe that we could work with any other ministry, but absolutely not with four more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u210	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished presidents, welcome! More than once, it has been said that every government, and your government itself, can judge what the organisation of the government will be like, how the work will be done, and so on. But, as has already been said, the number of ministries is not too disproportionate to the performance of your work, with better organisation. But it's all about the messages. For the first time is enlargement, an increase in ministries by five, in particular, a bad message to citizens and citizens, to people who today have nothing to put in a pot in a variety of households. What example do we set for them?Oh, my God! Second, this is a poor example for the economy. Slovenia is facing a very severe financial and economic crisis. And the economy, entrepreneurs have been saving everything since 2009. At the start of the crisis they started to save, and you set an example for us to be wasteful. No problem. We've got money. We'll expand. With more than 110 000 unemployed people in Slovenia, with 80% of gross domestic product in debt, this is a signal to our entrepreneurs, economists, that it is not actually worth it in this country. Because in Ljubljana we have people who get rich. This is the key to what you do with this law, with this expansion. The signal for the economy is also as follows. Additional ministries, systematisations mean additional bureaucratic tasks. We're on the ground a lot, and they tell us a lot: simplify procedures, procedures are too complicated. You are doing exactly the opposite, and the Christian Democrats are actually regretting this. After all, there is the impression in this proposal of yours that you are doing this because you have human resources problems because the problem is how to agree on the allocation of seats between the parties. As a result, two additional ministers without departments are a real handicap. Why? Why are you doing this? There are only two options: whether it is a possible new coalition, any party that will come to you further, and these two are the two departments, the two ministers on the reserve, or whether it is a reserve for your coalition coordination. If you answer what these two ministers will do, what their responsibility will be, what will they actually do, then fine, then I accept your argument that you are introducing two new ministers without a source. Until then, unfortunately, I can't believe what's actually in the background. And it's about the numbers. I mentioned earlier that it means expanding ministries over 85,000 meals a month in primary school. This is a minimum if we assume that we will spend about a million and a half euros on expanding ministries, and these are really minimum numbers, since there will be 10 ministers of state. The gross salary of the minister per year is around €72 000. Five ministers, only ministerial salaries, 360 thousand euros. The Secretary of State's salary is nothing less. It is said that there are financial effects, but, compared to symbolism, with the message you give to all citizens and especially to the economy, these financial effects are also minimal. I repeat, it is a symbolism that citizens and citizens do not deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u211	Thank you very much. We did the first round. Is there any other desire for another round? I'm asking you to sign up. I'm sorry. Something happened. I got the last list. Can we do the applications again, please? Mrs Margareta Guček Zakošek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u212	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I would like to express my support for today's draft amendments to the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, by extending the ministries. In particular, it would limit itself substantively to one example, namely to an extremely sensitive area of the environment. There is no secret that we have open indeed many so-called pilots in this area and that we are being dealt with by the European Commission either because of violations or because of partial non-transferability, due to complete non-transferability, due to delays in space and environment procedures. We all know that this can have extremely negative financial consequences on a country that is not measured in half a million in millions, ten million, but in the future financial perspective of 2014-2020 in billions of euros if we fail to take advantage of this. By giving some substantive reasons for this area. The European Commission's demands in the field of the environment are very high, and we know that they will be even more difficult in further procedures. Inefficient work would raise the issue of drawing on the new financial perspective 2014-2020, and these conditions will have to be met in particular because the European Commission is talking about the conditions for drawing on funds that will have to be met in advance, not as is currently the case. If I give some numbers from the operational programme for the development of environmental and transport infrastructure, otherwise for the period 2007-2013, this means – we know that we have around €1.5 billion available here, in specific areas. Water and flood safety funds around €400 million, sustainable energy renewal 160 and decommissioning, waste water treatment €155 million. So, we will all have to work together so that we can draw on these funds effectively, and that is also what our proposal is for. Within the framework of the newly proposed, established Ministry of Environment and Space, we urgently need to bring our legislation into line with the directives and regulations of the European Union as soon as possible. We also need them because it is not only about the environment as an extremely sensitive matter, but it is about economic growth. Why? If we look at another document, namely the professional basis of the Energy Efficiency Action Plan, which has provided us with a good overview of good, good practices in Europe. This tells us that next year our companies will be under extreme competitive pressure from the European Union because we will have inappropriate products, inappropriate services and will not be competitive if we do not. It is therefore not a coincidence that all technological, economically most pervasive countries in the European Union have a long-standing strict and thorough environmental and spatial policy because they understood that spatial environmental constraints are actually a catalyst for technological and real economic development. We're talking about the so-called circular economy. I'm sure you all know and know the term "circular circuit closing". Those who have failed today, in times of inevitable globalisation, have great problems. We're among them. This is an example of a substantive justification for why this new Ministry of Environment and Space is needed, from the point of view of the substantial, professional and efficient use of the resources we urgently need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u213	Mag. Margareti Guček Zakošek, thank you. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u214	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Good-bye! I believe that you will be a concrete, effective and, for all Members, equal Vice-President of the National Assembly. Unfortunately, today I find that it is not a very lucky day for the coalition. At the previous point, you passed the Constitution, passed the law, and you are following two main points in this law. One is rationalization by your own, which should cost as much as it wants, and the other is a few lies that you've written in this law. But rationalization costs as much as it takes. The predecessors of the SMC Group said earlier: we will not increase the cost of the country. Interesting. In doing so, increase the number of ministries from 12 to 17. A number of colleagues have already said that this would bring additional costs. It pays 5 ministers, 80,000 euros a year times 5-400,000 euros. Ten secretaries of state, little bit of a wage. Let's say the average salary of the Secretary of State is 70,000 euros a year, times 10-700,000 euros. We're over a million. Every minister can have five people in the cabinet to trust. And to my knowledge of these cabinet staff, no one is in the 22nd, 23rd, 24th grade, but they are in the 45th, 46th grade and so on. And given my knowledge of these cabinet officers so far, nobody's in the 22nd, 23rd, 24th grade, but they're in the 45th, 46th or senior grade. So, about 50,000 euros a year. Five times five is twenty-five, times fifty thousand, so figure it out. Respectable, such rationalization that it will eventually run out for the ficus in these ministries, let alone for everything else. Then we do. For six months you'll be playing with who's going to move somewhere, who's going to get a new computer, who's going to take an old one with you, and all the support services can't wait to get some business from these ministries, because we're going to need new information systems, because we're going to need new ones, I don't know what, in short, it's going to cost everything. More. Five new ministers. Do you think they'll sit in their offices and work for the whole term? No, no, no. We're gonna have to go through Slovenia a little bit, and we're gonna have to go abroad a little bit, and that's gonna cost. Probably not as cheap as Mr Virant's flight was. The cost of these flights is probably going to be a little bit more expensive. So this family of yours on the topic of rationalisation and effective management is completely flawed. What's more, you started a law without one analysis. And I must say that today, for the first time, I have observed that the number of ministries has direct effects on GDP and on the growth of unemployment. Interesting. Without analysis, you dare write: "Despite the predictions of previous governments, the merger of ministries or the reduction of the number of ministries did not produce the expected effects of lower spending costs." For 2012, I can say that the reduction in spending costs has brought about. Then you wrote down "decreasing the number of employees in the public sector". He wasn't there. At least 1%, although many of us wanted at least a percentage more downgrading in the public sector. You wrote that there was no efficiency in working and solving problems. Ladies and gentlemen, we can have two ministries or 100 ministries if there is no real minister with the right secretaries, there will be no effective work. However, if we have ministers who know, for the first time, why it goes into politics, and for the second time, they get to know at least a little bit about their portfolio, I believe that through state secretaries, through directorates and through other services, they can do a hell of a lot of work. Ask the former ministers. Which ones are known? Those who were almost dictators in their places because they had order if they had 200 employees in the ministries or 500. However, to those who did little in their ministerial mandates around the world, none of the efficiency of the work brought some quality because they were there instead of a ficus. This is rationalization. Let it cost as much as it wants! If this goes on, I suggest and I hope that you will give the Ministry of Tourism or Energy something for these two ministers without a resort, if you have at least a little sense and listening to people, for example, something that may still bring added value to this country. I won't dare say we might have a ministry of local self-government. Local self-government is the only one still working. Since 13 July, we have not heard a word about local self-government. I was afraid that you would even ban the local elections and say, "Ah, the mayors are still in need, so we just have to call them off, and we have three-quarters of the municipalities to shut them down!" About the young, not him. Even more, I have heard one sentence so far that the Youth Office will be abolished and there will be some office for intergenerational solidarity, read: young people, last time, relax the suitcases, leave Slovenia, older people will rule, and you young people "if there is something, there will be" if there is not, but also right. I really appeal, if you already have two ministries in stock, make them something concrete, but not hire two people to the extent that they will be there along with the ficus and the secretaries, do not know what, order newspapers and cheerfully spend eight hours in the service. Moreover, you wrote: "The bill has no direct financial implications for the state budget and other public funds." When one of the opposition parties brings some kind of law to the National Assembly, please do not listen to the evidence that the law is not suitable for further consideration because it has financial implications. You lie that the law has no financial implications, and we prove to you that it has them, at least two million a year, and you will vote with ease. However, when a party from the opposition comes in with some law, for example, where we will regulate some systemic nuisance, give at least 5 pages of analysis of how something needs to be reorganized, and if there is no expert service of the National Assembly, you will vote by pressing against the "against" button that the law is not suitable for further consideration because it brings about a million euros a year and it will be totally unacceptable to you. You left such a law open today. Every time the opposition brings some kind of law with minimal financial consequences, I will throw this law on your table and show you that you lied, and you will still accept it with financial consequences. But when some opposition party does something small, it's gonna be "No, it's not." It's content! See what you wrote: "The proposed changes follow the principles of a more transparent, efficient and, above all, more operational structure and operations of the resources." And I look at these poor three sides, not the spirit, not the hearing, no analysis, no strategy, no deadline, but you can easily write down "changes follow the principle of a more transparent, efficient and, above all, more operational structure and operations of the departments." You've written on the bluff, Your Honor, and that's a relief for you. There's something else about the number of ministries. So in the government of Janez Janša there were 12, Mrs Alenka Bratušek finally set herself for the Ministry of Culture's goal, despite the fact that the financial flows within this ministry were no greater than in that super ministry, but as it was, it was. And that government of Janez Janša, who reduced the number of ministries to 12, had five parties in the coalition. Great appetites, including SDS, New Slovenia, People's Party, National Lists, DeSUS. And yet we got a little low, went to the gym a little bit, and said we'd try to hold on to something. Five clients. Now three parties, 17 ministries. And yet, dear colleagues from the Mir Cerar Party, that you already knew on July 14 that DeSUS and SD would be in your arms in the coalition. More than that, you had so much room for manoeuvre that you could say to the Allies of Alenka Bratušek, "No, thank you, we don't need you, we're done." And despite the fact that DeSUS only demanded a pensioner's regress, when or if it would, without any important personnel requirements that it would cultivate to your client. Similarly to an SD client, they just said, "We ask you nicely, controlled privatisation, and we'll be happy, we'll go right with you." Although I hear and read that today some district committees will decide whether or not they are going to the coalition at all, and the ministerial cities are already happy to share. So then there were 5 parties, 12 ministries, now there are 3 parties and 17 ministries, and you're still talking about rationalising the state administration. The logic, the respectable one, which at least I don't understand. Maybe another sentence. The new Department of Public Administration. I told the board yesterday that this is the silent winner of this year's national elections. We know who the public winner is, the Mir Cerar Party, and the silent winner is the public administration. Just look at the Mir Cerar Party program you had before the elections, what was possible. You put public servants in the center. Not social, not economics, not to say anything else, not to forget anything. Public servants. And public servants, or the public sector, now have a ministry of their own by this coalition. Yesterday I dared to say something else — a quiet lustration will take place. And one member of the coalition, which I then read in the bibliography, even at two ministries was a deputy, an assistant or even a secretary-general on the party. And he said, "No, that's not happening." Dearly beloved, not only am I second in the National Assembly, I have been in the National Assembly for 10 years, I have participated in many professional services, there is always lustration, always. No, they don't have to forgive everything, but the minimum is "our" changing with "your" and vice versa. This always happens because it is not an important name and surname, but at least at the back of some political pedigree of an official, whether it will be employed, will it be someone close to New Slovenia, SDS, DeSUS or any other party. Always. And otherwise, no one will convince me. I have too much experience, e-mailing and texting, getting what's going on. However, the state administration or the public sector has laid this down. Maybe local self-government, but that's not the topic today, and more who were mayors are probably going to say that. In short, this bountiful spillage, both by the number of ministries and by all that this will bring – and also by some ministers, who, in my opinion and in terms of what is circulating, will not bring added value – does not promise anything good for this country. I believe a lot of ministers will find it easier. Example. Mr Dejan Židan is probably very happy to get rid of the environmental work and be really the minister for what he, I admit, is probably very much lying down, although with his agricultural policy, his increased bureaucracy and sole concern for large farmers, where the small should slowly close down their farm, I do not agree, but there is only something he knows about agriculture. But when it was about the environment, he was happy to send his secretary of state, who sat there nervously for four, five hours and tried to answer us, Members of the coalition, especially the opposition, if we had any questions. In short, as a colleague from Nova Slovenije said before, once we have tried to make the public administration, the ministry, all that comes after us, when we started talking about the reduction of funds, agencies, offices and all — no. There is a new policy that is under the rule of the Mir Cerar Party and despite the fact that six months before the national elections were full of mouths, all the media have said that the country is in a catastrophic state, there are problems, there are problems, there are poofs we have, we are in charge. No! No! Under the rule of Mira Cerar, my respects, we'll be drenched in honey and milk, everything will be fine. And in this sense, I am very sorry that you don't have at least 20 ministries, as your group leader said, then probably unemployment would be much less, because at least 200, 300 people would be more employed, and the debt would probably be reduced. There is no analysis for this area, but you will probably have to tell us how you found some correlation between GDP and the number of ministries. In short, the piano is the beginning of this government's operation. I'm just wondering how long this'll last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr. Luka Moon has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u216	Thank you for your word. In fact, I am joining my fellow Members' group on the general position, saying that we are mainly opposed to ministers without a charter, and with regard to the other ministries, we feel that they need to be designed meaningfully according to the Government's substantive direction. In fact, I would like to place a few other emphasis on this debate or call for the debate to return to some of the frameworks in which it is supposed to be, just as I criticized it this morning, that it is wrongly set or that it revolves around completely wrong topics. The first thing that confuses me in this debate is that from all sides we hear some obvious or uncompromising performances so that the number of ministries will have a linear impact on national consumption. That certainly doesn't hold, and that's not even today's top. Well, that'll be the top when we're taking the budget. At that time, we will discuss how much money should be spent by individual ministries, how much money the country should spend. The second thing that is attracted to hair in this debate is that the number of ministries, again linearly, affects GDP growth and employment. If there's any such research, I can tell you in advance that she's a bluff, that she's attracted to hair. In addition, inside you are essentially using countries for which you do not hold what you claim. At first we heard that there was no crisis in Poland at all. Well, if we look at GDP growth in Poland, in 2009 the country's GDP was €529 billion, a year later, 2010 was €430 billion. So it fell by 100 billion euros. Poland has experienced a second recession since 2013 under the 2009 level and, like Slovenia, due not only to the direction of its country, but also to the European Union. Then we have Ireland here, where once again the number of ministries is supposed to bring some prosperity, a small number of ministries of course, but again we forget that this is exactly the Ireland that was most affected at the beginning of the crisis, which is most dependent on foreign investment, which is most subordinated to external financial capital and capital flows, and which is most volatile to the shocks it has received from the global financial markets. The number of ministries in this case has nothing to do with the economic growth of this country or not. What has to do with its economic growth is, above all, the substantive direction of its government and some development model, as economists say. So, how to ensure consumption, investment and consequently economic growth and jobs. Maybe that. And one last thing. If the morning word of Janez Janša is the afternoon word of the day of "rationalisation", as if it were some generally accepted social criterion that would assess the efficiency of the government if we cut down the country, then economic growth will come because we will give oxygen to the economy. I mean, this is really a vulgar economic thinking that is not taught by any economic school that has no back-up in theory and not in Empire. If it had already been confirmed in the Empire, then it would not have been like what happened in Slovenia in 2012, when the government then cut public consumption by €460 million, while GDP fell by €700 million. And the same is happening everywhere in Europe, because if all countries save at the same time, none of them spends, none of them buys these products, and all countries cannot export their crisis, as some imagine. In short, if I draw the line, all these arguments are drawn from the vine. Rationalisation and austerity are wrong guidelines and if we want economic growth, we have to deal with exactly two of them, not the number of ministries. Here, in essence, I call for us to focus on what the debate is supposed to be about, that is, whether we are satisfied with the proposal made by the next government and the mandate-holder, so that we have 14 ministries plus three ministers without a ticket. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u218	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The debate is scheduled to be held on the amendment to Article 3 of the amended Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, proposed by the colleagues and colleagues of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which is in fact read so that in the transitional and final provisions, the Law on State Administration is consistent with the provisions of this Act, i.e. the amendment of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia within 60 days or within two months, not within 90 days, from the oath of ministers appointed under this amendment to the Government Act. I will support this amendment. It is necessary to realize that time is running faster than 20 years ago, perhaps 30 years ago, and that time is not some imaginary component in the four-dimensional space, as was calculated by the famous Albert Einstein, but is one of the most important resources in the economy and also, not only in the economy, in our general life, perhaps important at least as much as energy to make it easier to understand. And further on, to understand each other, of course, I am giving every right to Dr. Mir Cerar's terminator and to the forming coalition to create some kind of government architecture. This is the legitimate right of each mandate holder, each coalition, to make the optimal architecture of the government with the number of ministers, to determine powers and so on. Of course, I expect and claim that they are key people who run individual ministries. And allow me, too, as an opposition MP, and as a Member, who was once more accurate in early 2012, voted with some satisfaction to reduce the number of ministries from the former 18 to 12. At that time, we told people that we were serious, that we were not dealing with ministerial chairs, and that we wanted to save money with tax money so that we could understand each other. And that's when people supported it. I remember that the coalition's backing had increased. As it is now, we'll see. Of course, I also expect that this structure of government, this architecture, will be more responsive than ever before. Above all, more responsive than the government that is now leaving, which simply does not respond to the problems that we have in Pomour, where in some way or actually another parade horse, the Nafta Lendava Group, is dying. We write to the government of Alenka Bratušek, no response, no response. We say that we have parliamentary democracy. As someone who has been almost a quarter of a century in the company, I would also like a slightly more entrepreneurial approach to government. It's an entrepreneurial approach. Some theorists, as well as practitioners, say: the country is like some kind of company; the government is some administration of this company. In recent years a philosophy of so-called start-ups has developed in the developed world. The fact is that markets are overcrowded with goods, consumers are extremely demanding and also highly educated, competition is global and the pace of technological and other changes is increasing. And all that I have just said and, of course, refers to an economic society, it is certainly possible, after some analogy, to be translated into the leadership of the country. As you yourself have already said before me, some colleagues and I somehow miss the greater emphasis on local self-government. Beyond this emphasis, more emphasis is placed on coherent regional development. I have been talking about this a lot lately, and obviously we will still have to talk about it, because otherwise we will continue to witness the development of just central Slovenia and the periphery will be increasingly far away from Ljubljana. And that's wrong. The country is as strong as it is on its edge, its periphery. I am also sorry that there is no talk in the coalition agreement about regionalisation or the establishment of provinces in Slovenia, i.e. the establishment and establishment of a second level of local self-government, which we have already written in the constitution. The Minister or Minister responsible for the relations of the Republic of Slovenia with the Slovenians outside its borders is already established by the Act on Relations of the Republic of Slovenia with the Slovenians beyond the borders of Slovenia, which we adopted in the mandate 2004-2008. The amendment of New Slovenia, which, of course, was adopted, went in this direction to appoint a minister for this area. I think it is very important that this minister and the Government take care of the entire Slovenian national body, wherever they live on the ground. As we say, there is a lot of talk about thin organization. I would also like this architecture of the new government to have an approach, at least an approach, a slim organisation. What does that actually mean? I understand a thin organization as some innovative adjustment to the new situation. And there is a new situation in Slovenia. They are a crisis situation and we must manage the country in a way that will adapt to a new situation as soon as possible, a situation where prosperity for all will actually be ensured. My fear is that if things go so slowly, slowly, at a slow pace, and now I will be a little optimistic here in this forecast, the government meeting may not be until Thursday, 8 January 2015, when the staff, property and otherwise consolidate all ministries. That's a long way from here. Because it will take time for all these things that I have mentioned to actually be settled. I am pleased, however, that in the coalition agreement, you have made it increasingly difficult to inform business processes, if I may say so, those processes that run within the ministry, among the ministries, but of course this information cannot be done overnight. Surely, this information could and should contribute to a stronger organisation, a weaker architecture, a government structure. I hope, of course, that this information will have real effects once and for all, because we are only talking about this a lot and we are not doing enough. As we say, this amendment to 3. The article we're talking about here is something I'm going to support. But for the reasons I have stated, I cannot support these novels of the Government Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u219	Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor to prepare Mrs Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u220	Thank you for your word. Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I myself support the amendment to Article 3 proposed by the SDS Group. I also have a certain opinion on the enlargement of the ministries you have proposed. For the good, efficient and efficient government, the number of ministries is not important. I think it is particularly necessary and important political will. Citizens and citizens depend on the political will accepted by coalition parties that form a solid coalition. That you have a solid coalition and how solid it is, we have seen it today by vote. You do have a very large number of votes, and it is likely that all citizens will also judge you by political will. Not by firmness, but by political will, what you will do in the country to benefit citizens and citizens. Why we have a series of rules and individual articles, which no one implements, are defined by the competent authorities for their implementation. Here I can say that there may not be enough political will. And that this political will is not going to hang in the air somewhere, I'd like to make it clear to you what it means. In the mandate of Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek, somewhere in May, we discussed the problem of the hospice house. We know what this hospice house is, what's going on there, and who it's meant for. Those who are, I'll tell them, somewhere on the edge of life. This solution would require political will, which we did not have on the committee at the time. It is necessary to harmonise the two ministries, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, but we have not come anywhere further, although we have all agreed, we have adopted conclusions to ensure that the house of hospice is regularly operated at EUR 210 000 per year. This was a heavy burden for the then government coalition. I'm talking about this political will. We all agreed. Nor was the amount exaggerated, unattainable, or unrealistic, but it was not the political will to regulate the status of this house. That is why I expect the government coalition to be formed by individual ministries, which will be more so as to have more of this political will. And as I have already said, then we will evaluate you, all of us, also Members of the Parliament, and of course citizens and citizens. Why the fact that you are expanding ministries means that you are providing additional financial resources, which must also be in the case of laws, the needs that citizens need, and from this point of view I really expect at one of the next meetings of the Committee, also the provision of financial resources to the hospice house. It was not only the hospice house that needed political will, including the law on regulating the status of war invalids, so that the matter would soon be measurable as to how much of this political will is in this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u221	Mrs Violeta Tomić has the floor to prepare Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u222	Dear Presidents, fellow Members and fellow Members, Comrades and Comrades! I'll talk about culture. With regard to this point, the United Left will hold back, so allow me to think briefly about how Janez Janša’s party abolished the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Culture in 2012. Earlier, Mr Gorenak had said that the decline in GDP also required a reduction in the number of ministries. I'm glad to give you guys the pleasure of laughing. However, it has been proven that in Europe it is a culture that brings once more profits than its financial resources. We must not view culture as a budget engenderer, but as an economic sector. Let me give you a very short study example. If you do one poetry festival, you get certain funds from the Ministry of Culture or we apply for some funds at the invitation. Then people come from all over the world. They work carriers, make accommodations, make farmers who sell their crops, innkeepers and all find out where Slovenia is. The most environmentally friendly economic sectors can be earned as much as possible. I would therefore ask that the attitude towards culture and the environment change. Environment and culture are very close to each other, in fact. Why, I think, did Janez Janša go to the very environment and culture? When I pass the court, I see, "Save Jansha, save Slovenia!" It is said that he is equal to Slovenia. Respected and respected. Culture is Slovenia. Culture has preserved us through history and not one with a name and a last name, not to mention it all the time. The environment is Slovenia. As long as we have a clean and healthy environment, we will be competitive, not according to the quantity of our crops, but by quality. And here you get the feeling that someone was trying to eliminate the competition. Saving, you say. Mr Lisec explained that there were five coalition partners, and there were enough ministries for all. You see, that kind of thinking has led us to a crisis. Well, the ministries aren't the cake you're going to share, they're not the feuds. And you're talking about how much pay they're gonna have. The ministries are work areas. We'll give them a job, not a reward. We will give them a job, so I trust the government that it will draw up these ministries wisely, so that, as you mentioned earlier, they will draw on European funds through these ministries and give people more work. And that would also point out, the smaller number of ministries we have, the greater the concentration of power, and it's not something we'd fight for. Let me finish. The jobs will be the ones to guide us. Gandhi said there's enough wealth in the world for everyone, but there's not enough for the greed of some. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u223	Mr Ljubo Žnidar has the floor to prepare Mr Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u224	Thank you very much, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! The proposaler, this is a government coalition, is convincing us here today that an increase in the number of ministries by four or five will have no financial implications for the state budget. I'll hold my comment here, even though I don't believe it. It will be very soon on the balance table for 2014 and 2015. But the numbers are measurable and I'll give you an answer or I'll remind you then. If I'm wrong today, I'll say I got the wrong idea. If the numbers of the public administration are smaller when the number of ministries increases, I'll say, "Yeah! Your directions are correct, your path is going in the right direction." As far as efficiency gains are concerned. I know quite a few issues, environmental issues, which have been mentioned today. Yes, it is true, but ask the Minister or future Minister of Agriculture only – he did not even touch the environmental work, because it was a hard nut, but those things are best put aside. Of course, I will monitor with interest the increase in efficiency, especially in putting state infrastructure projects into space, solving environmental problems and, because it was most important for me to give people a job, with particular attention to the start-up of investments in the Republic of Slovenia. And if an increase in the number of ministries is to help, I will be extremely happy. But from practice, from the annual increase in the growth of public servants, so to speak. One is the theory, and the other is the real facts that appear in numbers and the numbers are measurable. And they'll be on the table very soon. In the end, all I'd say is that DeSUS gave you a strong wind, in my opinion. Just in case, you've given yourself two more ministers without a license to have a new request every time, because we know that DeSUS is at the circus for a month, a good month and a half always comes with a new request, there in the drawer of another deputy minister, who you still don't know what his job would be. Just in case. Just in case this government coalition lasts a little longer. This is a good move for the ruling, largest coalition party, but a bad move for the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Let's give it a rest. Things will be measurable with numbers sooner or later, and then I'll call back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Chuš has the floor to prepare Mr Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u226	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. As has been said several times in the debates today, the government's first action is or today we can call the Mira Cerar coalition an increase in the number of ministries. In my opinion, this is a sign that you are confident of your incompetence, that you do not believe in your programme and that you do not believe that you will be able to start an economy. I understand that you have received a very large number of votes in the elections and that you promised many people a job, but would it not be better to talk about creating jobs in the economy? Today, it has been said many times that Slovenia is a unique person. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that I agree because I think that Slovenia is one of the few countries where politics creates jobs. Several ministries simply mean more costs, a more expensive country, and I am also concerned about the area of cross-cutting coordination. I was a Member in the previous reference year and a half, and I had already heard that we had problems with inter-departmental coordination. I would like to point out for myself the Resolution on the National Youth Programme, which we can really say was the project of all ministries – and what has happened? That simply five, six sources did not agree to any measure that would be appropriate to everyone, so of course we have paper "speeches" that remain in drawers, and the problem of young people is, say, bigger from day to day. A larger number of ministries, as I said, will not make it easier for the government to work, but will make it difficult for it to work. In six months we will be asking you questions about what you have done, what you will do, and the answer of the Minister or Minister will be, "Yes, now we have moved the premises, and we have started to talk and coordinate a little, I think the cabinet has just gotten used to working in new areas now." I think the people will recognize that. And I hope you don't act like a fool. At the symbolic level, I understand the move of increasing the number of ministries, especially by favouring the expansion of the public sector or, rather, public administration, and thus turning your back on the Slovenian economy and those who create something that creates added value that works for our wages. And, respectable coalition, you've laid very bad, broken foundations and given us a lot to tell you. You are acting like money literally rains, and I ask you not to tell us again about this speaker that there is a difficult financial situation in Slovenia because you are not acting that way. Today, countless calculations have been said, but I don't think it's just the cost of paying, there's also a lot of other things, from spaces and so on. As many speakers have said today, I simply do not understand the link that because of more ministries, there will be more GDP. Then I suggest we make every Slovenian and Slovenian minister, and we will have a really good GDP. I don't know where that makes sense. When there was a speech on culture, Mr Matić, what was better than giving money that was saved at the expense of wages and other costs of maintaining premises, into culture or that was given at the expense of the minister and some State secretaries? I myself was a member of the Committee on Culture, or after the change of government, and also in the mandate, when Žiga Turk Minister was responsible for culture, as I understood it, there was nothing left behind. Of course, it is understandable that many publicly exposed individuals or politicians may lose some motivation if they attend a celebration and are approached by a culturer and branded as a stench. That's possible. As I say, even when the opposition felt that the super ministry had not fallen asleep, it worked well, transparently, the funds went to cultural programmes and not to pay wages, but not to misinterpret that I have no respect for the people employed by the Ministry. I'm sure you could make the composition of the government much better. I would also like to add that I myself am quite disappointed in the division of the resources or the establishment of the powers of the departments. I have expected much more in the field of youth, the problem of young people is growing from day to day. I have now read on some social networks that the planned abolition of the Youth Office is now going to be an intergenerational cooperation office. And that's safe at a time when politics should tell young people, stay in Slovenia, educate yourself, we'll try a little harder for you, but we also give them a bad sign at the symbolic level. And on that basis, I'm hardly an optimist myself. However, I would expect the government, once it is established, to focus a few more efforts on regionalisation as well. We used to think of this ministry. I come from the lower Podravje, from one of the less developed regions of Slovenia. I have invited the government of Alenka Bratušek to our places several times, and also when the government is being established, please come and see that it is not only Ljubljana Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u227	Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u228	Thank you very much. In principle, I did not intend to advertise, but I was struck by the fact that in the vast majority of cases in the opposition debaters, the effectiveness of the country as a red thread and the direct causal link to the number of ministries is being drawn. I have to tell you, this is not directly related, it's not too subtle. A larger number of ministries do not mean a less efficient country and vice versa. I am sure that, with the number of ministries envisaged for this government, the country can still be very effective, very rational and so will be. However, if we theoretically reduce to 5, 6, 7 ministries, it is not a guarantee, no marriage, that the state will be effective to revive the social economy, that the economy will breathe and so on and so on. The priority for the effective work of the State is the right will, desire, enthusiasm. I guess, I don't suppose, I'm sure in the coalition of your will, we're going to let you in, and this desire will not run out. Another important moment is how to make a clean operational, organisational stop-work and, as my colleague has said, also the architecture of these ministries. I think it would be right, right and right to leave, as has been the practice so far, any government that is newly conceived to somehow draw up the organisational structure, including the number of ministries, and then, on the basis of how projects and activities have been conceived, work as well. When I was representing the position of the Desus Group, I said that the programme was of a priority nature. A lot of time has been spent, a lot of energy, and I'm sure it wasn't all thrown into the air, but it would have consequences very quickly. We or government officials, ministers, may not even need 100 days, but the results or at least some starting points will begin to appear inappropriate earlier. Of course, these ministries, whatever they may be, will have to be very rigorous in terms of cost management, very "sparing", if I may say so myself at home. Above all, the following is essential. You were talking about a million and a half higher wages. The payload must remain within certain limits. We have done this in the past, and I think we have done it to the best of our ability. We can put fewer ministries in the cabinet of the President or the President of the Government, and we put five, six state secretaries in the cabinet and it's the same effect. Let's set up a new agency, hire that upper limit of the cabinet jobs that were discussed, and here, the effect is practically identical. I don't think so. I have some experience in this area. I've worked in the government for many years, and in the end, I've been in the general seat, and I know how these things need to be served. Here are the public contracts, here are the daily expenditure on material costs and so on and so on. There's a lot of money being thrown into the wind here, and it's got to be jammed. Of course, it bothered me when my colleague, I think it was written by Lisec, who, unfortunately, is not in the hall right now, for the second time, he was talking about lustration. I can tell you categorically and claim that at least these two ministries, where I was, so at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and the Ministry of Health, there was no talk of any quiet, loud, half-voice, any lustration. There was no lustration, at least not that I was there when it was being performed. And I was there when the human resources plans were adopted, and I was there when it got hired and so on. However, if we are talking about jobs that are trusted, so-called cabinet jobs, then of course, when the minister goes, cabinet jobs go with him. Many times, however, this may not be the most appropriate for public finances, and many employees from different political parties have also kept their jobs when this minister was no longer available, and have either been employed for an indefinite period or for an indefinite period of time. So it is very painful when a person hears that we are going through some sort of lustration or that it is a general practice. I can assure you once again that where I was and where I was dealing with human resources policy, that was not the case, and that would be unacceptable, untasteful, inappropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u229	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm going through the list. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor to prepare Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u230	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. In the morning I listened to the radio and the older listener said: "After a very nice speech by the Prime Minister, a cold shower came a few days later – an increase in the number of ministries. And I have a feeling that in about six months he's gonna start asking himself, Oh, where would he take it? That means there's gonna be no money for all this stuff." True, each government should have its own number of ministries, if that were to be very simple. Not to be resettled from one address to another, from one ministry to another ministry, and this will take time, and the ministries will be inoperable for quite some time. I'm afraid of that. I expected, however, to argue an increase in the number of ministries in the area of content. For each time period, the situation in which the country is a country may also need to adjust the functioning of the State and individual ministries. And in a troubled state as it is, this government, or this party that has practically scissors and linen in its hands, should act quickly or at least indicate why such changes and how they will solve a particular problem. I would like to remind you that I was very disappointed yesterday because there was nothing about it, it has this substantive basis, and the proposer said that we will not discuss it again. Okay, but I want to remind you. In view of the fact that Mrs Guček Zakošek has done some very exciting work here today, such as the Operational Programme for the Development of Environmental and Transport Infrastructure, the financial perspective 2007-2014 is at stake, where the situation is very critical. Let me tell you about agriculture first. I share my opinion with those who said that Mr Jew was nicely "losal" of the environmental work, which had been a thorn in his heel at all times and had done very little in this area in his mandate. Of course, one part was saved by the President of the Government when she brought this into government service. However, it was already quite late and the measures were not the right ones. We know the situation of agriculture. This country has forgotten about small farmers. The average farmer in Slovenia has 6 and a half hectares of land. This isn't for survival. Agricultural policy has gone towards bringing together land, creating more competitive farmers who are in no way comparable to European farmers or on average, and being competitive no longer because two-thirds of agricultural land is in the field of limited farming factors, such as steep, poor land or shallow land, so that they cannot be competitive with European farmers. Nevertheless, we leave them, farming farmers leave, agricultural land is growing, although we have among the least, if not least, inhabitants in Europe. But this will be somehow controlled by the Minister of the Jews. But he got rid of environmental projects, cohesion projects. We know, and you probably also know, that there are 11 projects in the area of 34 municipalities prepared, that the Government has said that they are starting with their own resources to implement these projects so that European funds will follow up later. Time is running out, projects need to be completed by the end of 2015 by drawing on European funds. If not, the municipalities can complete them with their own resources in 2016. If they do not do so, then all cohesion money with interest must be returned, and these are the bounds of the congregations. Expect immediately after the local elections that these congregations will wake up and demand answers from you. The situation is that not only me but also those in charge of the ministries say that this money will not be drained, that it will remain around half a million euros from this financial perspective. This is twice as much as a property tax, which you will probably try to reinstate. Here I expected certain, I'd say, arguments or extensions to how you're going to do this. We have heard that you are predicting because it is a special ministry of environment and space to give more emphasis to space. This is also a major thorn in the heel, as spatial acts are produced from five to eight years, which is unacceptable. Investors and entrepreneurs are waiting for a building permit from five to six years, abroad this is measured in weeks and in years. That way we drive away foreign investors like we're afraid of them. There's a lot of work to be done here. For example, we are the only ones in Europe who have some administrative units that issue building permits. For simple facilities this is done everywhere in Europe by municipalities in a couple of weeks. And not so much paperwork, but on the 10 pages. The economy. When we go to Austria, entrepreneurs have booths without cash registers, we have a lot of lumps for every small account, cash register, bookkeeping. [[..]] I don't know where that's going. The business of these small enterprises should be significantly simplified. Young entrepreneurs, small entrepreneurs who register the company across the border, are running away from us. They say there is no problem in Austria or Croatia to register the company, but you can do business normally. I've already mentioned foreign investments. Here I think it's a solution. Now we're almost hermetically closed to foreign investors. Then there's the public administration. Administrative units. Since I've been in Parliament, I always point out that we've been in administrative units to the refugees that it's not in Europe. We've got a bunch of employees that don't need them. Let's just say, traffic in agricultural land. In Slovenia, 500 referees are employed, working exclusively on agricultural land transport. When we did not have licensed companies doing so, that was probably a need. Is it necessary now? What are these people doing? Then local government. The Ministry only mentions local self-government. Mr Han, during your government's time, there was a mouthful of debates on coherent regional development, and now it's nowhere. The provinces, the second level of local self-government. Will you go to this project? He's not a freak anywhere. I think it's urgent. There's a lot of that. I would expect at least something concrete from you, an argument or something in the program. Only Mrs Guček Zakošek mentioned environmental projects and the importance of this being resolved. If you go now, it'll probably be too late. So I think that by increasing the number of ministries just like that, without the right arguments, without the right explanation, in stock, you have not been satisfied with the expectations of those who have elected you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u231	Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word to prepare Dr. Bojan Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u232	Thank you very much, President. Let me repeat a few words from last night's performance about this subject. Look, any way you have coalition MPs or the public may feel that the opposition is impeding you, let me say that's not true. You have a sufficient number of votes and you will vote on everything you want. So you have no problem with the opposition. Because you're a coalition and you can vote whatever you want. The question is, of course, what. That's the first one. Second. We witnessed an election campaign that led to the result as it was. Although I'm personally not satisfied with this, I'm one and I'm not a problem. But it's a country. It's not about any of us. Today the country is not where it was after the 2011 elections. At the time, things could still be resolved in some normal way. Today, the state is no longer where things can be resolved in a normal way. That is why I want you to save this country from the coalition, especially the Mir Cerar Party. And I will be one of the most satisfied people if you succeed. It may sound a little funny, but it's honest, and it's true. Because someone has to save this country. People have decided in the elections that it is you, people are right, and that is why I wish you a lot of success in your work. But the opposition is to set the mirror and, of course, I am one of those who will show you the mirror all the time. But not because I would fuck with you, not because I wanted to hurt you or because I would make your job difficult, but because it's because the opposition is trying to coalition, you know, when you walk by, someone shows you a mirror, you look at yourself and say, "Wow, maybe he's right!" And you're going the right way. That is why I think so, and my performance will be in this sense. You wrote that you would make a thin and transparent administration. In here. The Mir Cerar Party Program. I said I could congratulate you on that decision because it's the only logical, the only smart, the only one people would expect. However, see, you have brought a document called the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in which you increase the number of ministries by 5. You're increasing the number of ministers by 5. This is not a step in the direction of the lean administration, but it's a step in the direction of that fat Bert administration. What's true now? If it is true that you want to go in the direction of thin public administration, then reduce the number of ministries. Be better than the government of Janez Janša. Because times are so much worse than in 2011, 2012, and if that government managed to run the country with 11th ministers plus one, it says 12, with almost half less indebtedness and in, you would say, a significantly better financial state, then you can lead it with 8. And I will congratulate you for being better than the government of Janez Janša. It bothers me, and so I urge you to write one — a simple administration, and in marriage you bring Fat Berta. It bothers me. Let's go to the numbers. "We will take good practices and good suggestions into account." I almost applauded when I heard the candidate at the time, and now I'm the Prime Minister of the government, the government in the process. Finally! Finally, it will not be the same as in the previous term. In fact, between 2008 and 2011, we wrote around 211 laws. Borut Pahor's government and that team have turned it down. One law was not adopted. Well, that doesn't make sense to do that if you have a smart government. But, see, voters – today reminds me a little of that inaugural session or the first session of the previous Parliament, those previous compositions of Parliament and those decisions. I don't know if it's a case or not, but when I perform, she disappears. I don't know why, I hope it's a case. Mr Möderndorfer sat there, with 29 new faces behind him. They were sitting there from the National Gazette and there was Mrs. Hočevar. She had her first performance and I was really excited about her performance, i.e., "A new period is beginning for the Republic of Slovenia, we are the most honest, we are the best and we will save this country." Now look, there's no more of her or any of hers. There's new faces here, and the rest is back there. There's four or five more. How many have there been? There's four left. This is the price the people demand. We paid our price, too. There are fewer Members. But today you're taking the first two things, so first the decree, now the law, and if you compare it to a situation in a high school, you could say: first the flower, second the flower. It's on its way to play. You'll have a boner somewhere, and then you'll fall. And that's where we get new faces. Maybe the four of them will move up there. That's not what I want. I want you to save the country, so people voted for you. A few more numbers. Look, Mr Rop led the country with 16 ministries and several state secretaries. At the time, the law was somewhat different, for at that time State secretaries were able to perform tasks such as the Directors-General. Janez Janša led the government with 17 ministries. It was a time of fat cows, economic growth was 6.7% and so on. She was followed by Borut Pahor, who led the country with 18 ministers. And the crisis has begun. So, the bigger the crisis, the more ministers you have. Janez Janša then led the government in 2012 with 11 plus one ministry. There's been a crisis. Mrs. Bratušek continued with 13. Now that the situation is far from the worst, financial and economic situation, you come up with the proposal "Victika administration, Fat Berta", from 12 to 17 ministries. That's what people need to be told. You didn't say that. You didn't say that in the program. Today we have such a condition that when we last listened to the Prime Minister, everything was a legal state, everything went to honesty, to rightfulness, to legality. [[…]] If we look at this now with the help of the media that we know whose they are, we already have the condition that anyone touches Mr. Cerar – wow! He's the most honest man in the world. Okay. I hope so, too. And a lot of success! But that's not the reality. Number of ministries, forward. Many of you have talked about not being there or you writing it down here so there will be no financial consequences. Yeah, not paint people! Five ministers are demanding €5 times 80,000 annually, which is €400,000. They're just ministers' wages. Every minister has a secretary. I don't know a minister who wouldn't have a secretary. Every minister will have the right to two secretaries of state, maybe not those two in the cabinet. And now, even the most disturbing thing is in the cabinet. Every minister will also have a chauffeur, as it is a custom and everyone will be entitled to five cabinet jobs, perhaps not the one in the cabinet. Look, those of you who were there, you'll remember well. From 2004 to 2008, during the period of fat cows and economic growth and budgetary surplus, the government of Janez Janša could also have ministers in its cabinet, as is currently planned for you. I did these tasks, but with the name of Secretary of State. And there was someone else next to me. We were two Secretaries of State. You want, of course, to have ministers there during the economic crisis. It doesn't work together. It's not working. A few more numbers. Why do you write in the bill about Norway, which has 15 ministries if you want 17 ministers? France 16, you 17. By the way, France has 61 million people. Poland 17 at 38 million. In short, not even for the law you have submitted – Rules of Procedure and other rules require that you give three international comparisons, you have given four international comparisons – and in all four international comparisons you have not found one country in Europe that has several ministries. You mentioned Norway, France, Poland and Ireland. Only Poland is 17, all the others have fewer. But if we looked in Austria, we would find that there are 13 ministers, Portugal 13, Finland 12. Uh, "ugly" Hungary with Orban is going economically for the better, it has eight. Or, say, the economic financial miracle of Switzerland, the 7 ministries. Or are you going to tell people the real picture and say, "We're fucking around, so we wrote it down, a thin public administration, and we're going to do it differently"? Then tell that to the people, I won't say it either, but tell them about this pay phone. Yesterday, Dr. Kustec Lipicer, head of the SMC Group, and I had the opportunity to debate something small on the committee or to confront opinions, and then she went and I stayed, and I couldn't end the dialogue with her. She's gone again today. She said that all the analyses showed that the reduced number of ministries in the government of Janez Janša did not have the desired financial and other effects. I took a big look at her. I'm reading a lot of electronic media, I'm reading Umar, and I don't know what kind of analysis and I haven't seen it anywhere, so I asked her if she wanted to tell me where the analysis was that she analyzed the work of Janez Janša's government in terms of the number of ministries. By the way, that's why we're proposing an amendment. Our amendment says that because I can no longer reduce the number of ministries, you decided yesterday on the committee that by 1 December 2015 ministers should prepare an analysis, send it to the government, have the government do a joint analysis and send it to Parliament. That's what the amendment says. So that we can get to know what's better now that we have 17 ministers instead of 12. There's got to be some sort of analysis. And since Mrs. Kustec Lipicer didn't find any analysis, she told me she was referring to the analysis of Umar. I'm sorry, it won't hold. Umar has never done any analysis of the number of ministers of the government of Janez Janša and its effectiveness, and there is no analysis. Then she talked about the Economic Institute and I asked her if she could be more specific. She wasn't. I went to see, there's nothing available in electronic sources, so no one analyzed it. I am talking about the 12 ministers of the government, Janez Janša, and the effects of this government in terms of a smaller number. She also talked about international research. International research has even less researched the efficiency of the government of works by Janez Janša in 2012, when the government had 11 plus one minister. In addition to not sticking to what is said in this coalition agreement, it is also the government's work and the implementation of the leader of the largest parliamentary group. Look, I'm not going to say bad, next time I'm going to say you're lying, and now I'm not going to say so bad. [[…]] But be careful! Don't write anything that doesn't hold. And don't say anything that doesn't hold. He does not claim that Umar was doing research, does not hold that he was being done by the Economic Institute and does not hold that there would be international research into the work of the government of Janez Janša in 2012 from the point of view of the twelve ministers. There's no such research. So I'm asking for accurate information. Next time I'm gonna say, "La-je-te!" Now I won't, because I know it's a start and it takes time. Today, the head of the parliamentary group has corrected the matter. She's not here. I hope she comes from where or someone will tell her. And she said that the smaller number of ministries in 2012 had nothing to do with any success and talked about the fall of gross social product. Yeah, of course, gross social product fell. He crashed badly, he didn't just fall. But if the gross social product has fallen and if there is less money in the state treasury, then I expect less, not more ministries. Less, not if there's less money. She further justified this by unemployment. That's true. Look, between 2004 and 2008, unemployment dropped to less than $60,000. In 2008 in the government of Janez Janš, we still adopted conclusions allowing 60,000 jobs from abroad. So from non-EU countries, from non-European countries, because there's so much automation. So from countries that are not members of the European Union. Then there's Croatia. And now look at the situation. But today we sent all those people home because that's how we no longer work, and we have 120, 130 thousand unemployed. So unemployment is growing, Mrs Kustecheva is right. But for the unemployed, you need compensation. It means the state needs more money. And if the state needs more money, then you can't increase the number of ministries, but you have to reduce it, you have to reduce the number of ministries. And you're increasing them. Furthermore, it justified this by the State's debt that the state has an increasing debt. That's true, too. With the "success" of the government of Alenka Bratušek, we have come to 29 billion, one billion or more per cent of which is at the annual level intended for interest. So Mrs. Kusteceva is right. But if you need money to cover the budget, then you need to reduce the number of ministries, not increase. Do not increase. She went on to talk about 392,000 people living below the poverty line. I don't know where she got this information, but I know she's here somewhere, exactly. The data is correct. But if there are so many poor people, then we must give for social and not for the wages of ministers, ladies and gentlemen. [[Incomprehensible]] Then you can't increase from 12 to 17 ministers. It's not working. Look, she's given a wonderful explanation why you have to reduce the number of ministries in marriage and you've increased them. It just doesn't work. It doesn't work together. You need to see yourself in this mirror and it's time to see yourself, it will be better, you can correct things and you can start doing what you need to do, and this is the rescue of this country. And that was the vote of the electorate and so on. By the way, someone used to talk about old moms watching or how it was said. I don't know if we're just looking at old moms or not, but people's responses are. I got an e-mail. It was sent by Mr Pavel, who apparently also advocates a smaller number of ministries and gives us the right. And he reminded me that Slovenia has 2 million inhabitants with 212 mayors and 350 municipal councillors and New York has 8.4 million inhabitants, one mayor and 40 saints. It's a simple management. But I thought you'd go this way if you wrote a simple board. So it's a simple board of directors. So much for that. Mr Matić, I think he is still here, has earlier talked about not knowing where the polls have been published, which oppose an increase in the number of ministries. Mr. Matić, I did my best. After my discussion, after I turn off the microphone, I'll bring this to your table. The survey was published 25. 8. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its It was made in the regime paper on the left, but I didn't mean you, you probably don't have a newspaper yet, so "yours," I thought. And 75% of people oppose what you're about to do. 75% says "against enlargement". The question was, "Do you support the idea that the new government would count 15 or 16 ministries and the previous one had 12?" That was the question. Look, 75 percent of people -- I hope you know that those who support you are -- say, "No, we don't support that." Then there are 17% who support it, but 8% do not care what it is. I will give you this, Mr Matić, so that you may also examine this matter, and I think it has been published elsewhere. So let me get this straight. The people who trusted your voice, I congratulate you on your best wishes to save this country. I personally wouldn't want to sit there right now, and I wouldn't want the Prime Minister to tell me whether you'd be the minister for it, one or the other. I wouldn't want that. Never again. I can tell you that. I've tried this. You will do this under much more difficult conditions, so I wish you a successful job. If you're gonna solve this, someone else won't have to come after you. After all, the state of Slovenia is now, I like to illustrate, about as it led to the collapse, the front wheels of this truck, if we symbolically compare it with the country, are in decline, the last are still on the road, dealing with a little gunk. The chauffeur said, "All passengers back." I want you, we want to help you get this bus on the road. But you also understand that that's what we want. And there is no reason for you not to accept what we offered you yesterday with the amendments when we said, "Don't do 17 ministries or 17 ministers, keep what Mrs Bratuškov did, but be better than the government of Janez Janša, who had 11 plus 1, 12 ministers." Be better. All those who talk about some analyses, such as these, and others, that it doesn't affect that, it doesn't affect that — scientists can speak or speak in any way, just as lawyers can do, and one would be right, and the other would be right. It's only about something else. The pattern counts. The pattern counts. And if you're going from 12 to 17 today, it's an act that doesn't contribute to the pattern. If the financial and economic situation in the country were better, I would not hope to take such a step. You know, when you go from 18 to 11 plus 1, what we went through, we were in a situation where we were able to move from 18 ministers to 11 plus 1. That's awfully hard. Even before you're a minister, those culturers say you stink. That's what they told the then candidate for Minister Dr. Turk. That's bad. What you're doing is easier, but I don't know if that's a good idea. Just before, former Prime Minister Janša spoke about something. You know, he writes books, that's probably familiar to you, and you're probably aware that he wrote more books than all those in the PEN who tried to shut him out, but that doesn't matter. I wanted to say that he was talking about the fact that the vote on the previous commission would come into history. I have seen this list, I know who will come into history when that book is written, and I congratulate you, President of Parliament, that you will not do it because you are on the honourable side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u233	Mr. Ducky, huh? Procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u234	Thank you. I'd have procedural. With all due respect to Mr Gorenak, who today is definitely better than I am, as my colleague Han says, from whom I will learn, I hope that at least I will ever reach him, I do not know if I will ever exceed him, but most of what he has said is not related to this point. I hope that we will go together as the opposition in the long term to reduce the number of municipalities. Please conduct this session a little more consistently, and we, including myself, will be warned and I will not speak to you again today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u235	Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Claudius Marquez.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u236	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Given that the key challenges of all modern societies, especially transition societies, are being shed into this light of tackling corruption, on the other hand environmental challenges, those are the challenges of all modern societies, it is right that societies respond to these challenges with an appropriate state structure. All international organisations, especially for transit companies, find that we need a strong and strong transparent state administration. If we look at the public sector, most of the corruption is in the public sector and the answers are in the prevention. The prevention will be the one that will eliminate corruption, which will somehow trigger state institutions to lay the foundations that Slovenia needs in its partnership with the economy. If we look at environmental challenges. What is the future of Slovenia? We, as the future government and we, who are supposed to be in Parliament, must look for these future challenges in a healthy, clean and secure environment, which has already been warned today. And that's what Slovenia can carry on. Many experts have pointed out that we need an independent ministry to do so, because that is the only way we will be able to meet the challenges. It is also in that first part – the Ministry of Public Administration, which will take over part of the Ministry of the Interior's tasks, so that it can focus on both financial and economic crime, which is the challenge for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u237	The word has magic. Claudius Markež, get Mr. Jean Mahnic ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u238	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! We have been listening all the time in some way to the accusation that we are irresponsible, reckless, without analysis, but know, dear colleagues, that the reorganisation of ministries is being pursued with a great deal of responsibility, especially because we are striving to improve the efficiency and operationality of the work of our national administration and, above all, the effectiveness of the functioning of decision-making bodies. I think we've been on a dead end where all of us who have worked in public administration for many years have faced such or other obstacles. As a longtime head of the public office in Styria alone, I have faced many problems. We were somehow tied to the area of European spending, and we did not last survive it, but we just ran out of a barrier. I would not talk about this now, but there will be an opportunity on the committee, because I will really be trying to remove these bureaucratic obstacles so that we can effectively draw on the resources, including what remains for the financial perspective, which is in full final stage. Know that we really want stability, that we have a difficult enough situation, that we are sinking from crisis to crisis. We are responsible for economic growth and for the social state. So I'm going to say that I'm just disappointed with all these accusations, but I'm going to focus on the area of local self-government, because I'm still more domestic here. At the moment, I think the local communities in our country seem extremely scattered. Also, the guidelines for work are not always clear; problems are accumulating. This would also mention that local communities, as you all know, are linked to the Ministry of the Interior's wide range of resources, and we are working to bring this to public administration, because we do not believe that problems are being effectively solved. I think Mr Lah was talking about local self-governments, about the problems that are already taking place at the beginning of 2015 – and we in the Mir Cerar Party are aware of this, we know where the heart of these problems is. We are aware that we have many unfinished development projects and from this point of view, if we do not act effectively here, we will in fact have to pay back more than €500 million of European development funds. That is why once again, I think it is necessary to reorganise effectively and to bring together our sectoral ministries. Once again, I stress that we are actually committed to optimizing the functioning of the public administration, to responsibility of the sources and, above all, we are committed to measuring the results or effects of this organisation across the board and very critically. And I think we're going to do this in a very short time, and we're going to take full social responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u239	Mr. Jean Mahnič has the floor. Mrs. Markesh, please turn it off.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u240	I'm sorry, but we're still new.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u241	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am pleased that the coalition negotiations are concluded. If I was correctly informed, the coalition contract would be initialled on Tuesday. If this were to take another week or 14 days, we would probably have more to set up today. And these ministries are the result of coalition negotiations. How do we remember them? You didn't invite us, you didn't like the United Left and New Slovenia programme, but you were constantly arguing about what would be the cut-off of ministries, what would these ministries be like and so on. I read this proposal of yours, and here I underlined one thing. "The bill has no direct financial implications for the state budget and other public financial resources." And then keep going. "The redeployment of public servants will be carried out in accordance with the acts of organisation and systematisation of jobs and in the newly established substantive areas and therefore no new employment is planned." So right now we have 12 ministries, now it's going to be 14 plus 3. We'll have more ministries. How come there won't be any new jobs? We'll have more ministries, but there won't be any new jobs. Will ministers be able to do their jobs free of charge? Will the Secretary of State and the others do the job for free? I don't understand this logic, if anyone asks me to explain it to me. I allow it to be different. I agree, and it's nice that you've kept the ministry of Slovenians in place and around the world. However, I believe that it needs to be used even more in the future. We know that our fellow citizens abroad are very successful, and I think we can learn from them more than anything else, but not as some have heard that we do not need this ministry without a license. We have always talked about saving in the public sector. Yes, it is primarily an example. My mother works in the public sector, my father in the economy, so often at home what do we call this topic. And when I listen to how in a company where my father works, they save money, the public sector doesn't see it, doesn't see it, and probably never will. I agree, a million and a half, as they charged, it doesn't sound much, but, you know, it's the policy that brought this country where it is. Yeah, what's a million and a half because it's an 8 billionth budget. What's a million and a half here and a million and a half there? Because we don't have the responsibility to work with money that isn't ours. I believe you're all working, working with your money rationally, but unfortunately not with state money, because it's not ours, because no one's answering. It's a shame for citizens and citizens. A million euros and a half is not much as you've found, but it's enough to, say, save the beach in my environment, in the Poljanska Valley at the High Palace. Or arrange the road to Sorico because it's been waiting since 2005. Or rebuild the bridge in Medna, between Medvedas and Ljubljana, which depletes the nerves of Gorenjec and others. Or not least provide some 7,000 800 state scholarships for those of the most socially endangered families. It's true, obviously a million and a half isn't much. And after all that, I wonder. I've been following the speech of the Commissioner closely. I'm not saying that you don't have the right points of the program, but unlike you, I'm asking one fundamental question: who's going to pay for all this? It's nice to share candy there and there, but let's ask ourselves already – we have a minus, we know what public finances are - who's going to pay for it. And given what has been heard, I am afraid that we will be promised a further debt policy, a tax policy that led us both in 2011 and 2014 to early elections. I just hope that you will not break the government's record of Alenka Bratušek, who has managed to borrow us for 8 billion euros in a year, which is about EUR 14 000 500 per Slovenian, including newborns. And what do we have for these 8 billion euros? We know what we're talking about. There was talk about culture. I agree with Mrs Tomić, and culture is the one that brings about the rise in GDP, and culture must also be. But culture needs to be supported differently, not just by giving the minister, giving the secretary of state and so on. If this is really what you call optimization, rationalisation, to improve certain areas, then I have one question. We know what our priority is. Where our country is weak, this is when European funds are drawn. Then why don't you set up a ministry to draw on European funds? There's a lot of them. Lisec also mentioned that if we went like this, we could really get there at 20, 30 ministries in the end. And we wrote in the amendment: "The competent ministries of the second, third and fourth paragraphs of this Article shall submit a report to the government on rationalisation by 1 December 2015 at the latest." Support this amendment, if you are so sure that this rationalisation will be, and when we read this report, we will gladly applaud you and say, "Sorry, we made a mistake, you were right, it really happened."
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u242	Does anyone else want to discuss it? [[Yeah.]] I'm going through the list. Mrs Andreja Katič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u243	Thank you. We're supposed to be discussing the amendment so far, so I hope to be the last debater, but still. Your Honor! I believe it is the right of the President of the Government to organise the functioning of the government and the ministries at his own discretion. What matters is content, efficiency. And I think that all of us together in this Chamber, regardless of political conviction, are united in the fact that Slovenia must follow the path of development and one of the preconditions for this is a stable government, a government that has support for citizens and citizens and will be able to carry out its work responsibly. There's been a lot of talk. I would also like to touch the areas of local self-government. The municipalities are those who provide the most directly to residents and residents all the conditions for their quality of life. And the municipality is a municipality in which the population and population are also the most directly involved in the decision-making process. And each ministry, regardless of its territory, has its own decisions affecting the functioning of the congregations. What are all the congregations responsible for? As the head of the municipal administration, I could speak for an hour and a half about it, but let me summarize it quickly. The municipalities provide conditions for the economic development of their area, the conditions for construction, including housing, care for local public services, for example, to step to the pipe, open water and flowing drinking water, care for the separation and cleaning of waste water, waste disposal, other economic services, care for local roads, public roads, peaceful transport, public transport, care for preschool, school education, medical care, care for the social status of their citizens and citizens, promote cultural social activity, including sports, environmental protection, protection against natural and other accidents, manage space and, here legislation is particularly demanding, invest. I probably let go of some of the areas, but I have touched the areas of all the ministries listed in the draft amendments to the Government Act. Almost an imprecise type of law and an even more imprecise type of sub-legislative act lays down the framework for the functioning of local self-government. Following the proposed amendment of the Government Act, the Ministry of Public Administration will manage the tasks of local self-government. I would like the municipalities of local self-government to recognise the importance given the weight of the tasks they perform and that the area of local self-government would not be lost within the other tasks of the Ministry of Public Administration. The area of local self-government has been neglected in the past. The municipalities would need a strong ministry, which will not only be informed or will only stand by when preparing legislation and regulations from other ministries, but will be actively involved as a supervisory or coordinating body in their preparation. The Ministry should also ensure that municipalities are able to participate adequately in the legislative process and also in the process of adopting sub-legislative and other acts. There are a number of strategic documents in preparation. Also in the area of reorganisation of public administration, including in the area of further development of local self-government. I believe that the President of the Government, with his team, will always have before him the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which this Constitutional Court has already adopted in the past. Let me mention just two things, community funding and congregation tasks. First, it is stipulated in the Constitution that the congregation should be able to carry out local affairs on its own or to satisfy the needs and interests of its inhabitants. This means that the financial capacity and autonomy of the municipalities are essential for the quality of the local affairs, so I did not understand the debate about the lack of guidance given to the congregations. The municipalities are autonomous in the management of their affairs. Secondly, the Constitutional Court, at the time of the introduction of local self-government and later in individual decisions, repeatedly explained that the constitutional provision also obliges the legislator to determine the specific competences of the municipal municipalities. I am talking about the tasks that are related, which are important for the development of cities, as our constitution says. With the reorganisation of the work of the Government and the ministries and their first grade bodies, such as administrative units, tax offices, social work centres and others, I would like to stress in particular that each rationalisation is not necessarily good and does not necessarily mean a reduction in costs over a long period of time. If I can only point out a concrete case, namely the abolition of the tax office or administrative unit in Velenj, which is the fifth largest city in Slovenia, and the relocation of the work of these services to another centre, perhaps for a short period of time, constitutes a savings for the tax authority, although I have not seen the analysis and would not agree with it, but it certainly means more expensive and more alienated services for citizens and citizens. And let us not forget that we are in the service of the people, even when we organize the operation of the State and its services, which should be directed primarily and in particular to people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u244	I'm asking, does anyone else want to discuss it? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Mr. Gorenak? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? In yours, okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u245	Yeah, just for a little while. Look, the amendment doesn't cut the number of ministries from 17 to 12, because we can't do that. That's what we suggested yesterday, and the committee rejected it. Therefore, the amendment simply goes to the point that all things must be carried out within two months. And secondly, the amendment travels to 1. 12. 2015 Ministers shall prepare an analysis, transmit it to the Government and the Government to Parliament. This analysis could then also make Parliament aware of the effects of increasing the number of ministries. And in this place alone, how can I say, I truly expect the support of such an amendment with sound mind. Such an analysis may benefit you or all of us to see whether this step has been justified or not. I expect and ask for your support for the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u246	Is there any other explanation for the vote by the Members or sent? I don't see any interest. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 66 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 46. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. In your own name or on behalf of the Member of Parliament? Good. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u247	Thank you very much. This time, it is on behalf of the Group of Members, because I need a little more time. Check it out. Oh, good afternoon, Mrs. Kustec. [[…]] Look, I've been telling you all day, all day long I've been trying, yesterday even this afternoon I've been trying to keep the state of Slovenia 13 or 12 ministries and not have 17 ministries, because we just can't afford it right now. Our proposal was extremely understandable, our proposal was extremely rational, and I believe that our proposal was in line with the 75% of the people who indicated this in the Del survey. I have tried very hard to report, and at the same time I have asked for some answers at least by the leader of the parliamentary group, but this has not been given to me or I have not been able to get answers, so we are in the stage when we need to vote. As far as the SDS Group is concerned, of course it will vote against such a law. Let me list some reasons why we will vote against it. We will vote against it because we are one of the few countries that so enormously increases the number of ministries. The number of ministries in Slovenia is inversely proportional to the crisis. When the crisis is relatively small or it is not, then we have a smaller number of ministries. This is usually the case with right governments. However, when left-wing governments arrive, the usual number of ministries, irrespective of the financial and economic situation, are increasing, which is of course unacceptable, so we will vote against. It was obvious to us that we were intruding. We don't want to hinder anyone, we want to help, and that's why we tabled the amendment that you voted on. At the amendment, I really expected you to support at least the amendment. The amendment only required analysis, nothing else. Nothing else. No, no, no. So there won't be any analysis. Now, in a situation where you weren't ready to support 12 instead of 17 ministries, in a situation where you weren't willing to support the coalition even after one year to analyse the effects, in a situation like this, it would actually be my job to announce one obstruction. That would be the smartest thing to do. Because we wouldn't want to be involved in this by not saying problematic, but by making such absurd decisions. But I'm not gonna do it. But I can tell you that we are going to vote against it because we want to do good to the country. That's why. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u248	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group of Ambassadors, Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u249	Thank you very much. First of all, I'm sorry, I'm still new to the procedure, and I thought I'd spend those ten minutes now, but I've got a little less. In fact, I will give a summary of what is actually in the building, what we are deciding today and what has been going on in this long day or in the afternoon in some way in the context of the debate in this Chamber. When we discussed Monday the characteristics of leadership and leadership, we are today discussing the characteristics of government and governance. And in this context, we or we should talk mainly about institutional support for government and governance, but then, by some logic, we came very close to the issue of the processes and content of governance, the objectives and effects that governance brings with it. And I think that's very important and very good. We have also shown, in my opening address, that we are, in fact, talking about these short-term objectives, which are primarily linked to the recovery of state problems in the country, and to the long-term objectives, which are linked to some pro-active attitude that will finally lead us back to what we call public good, which is democracy, well-being, prosperity and so on. In short, we have been going around in these discussions about the mixture of content on the one hand and the numbers on the other. And this is where we come up with this fundamental question, which is very persecuting you, or once it comes in handy, and then a little less. What are we doing with the numbers now? So, what do we do with quantity? At first, you told me that I had established a direct link between the number of ministries and the current state that I illustrated with the numbers. Of course that's not true. I'll explain to you why it's not methodologically true. Because I said, "Despite a small number of ministries, this is the situation." If methodologically speaking, according to the principles of validity and reliability, of methodologically relevant connection, you should say: "This has occurred because of a reduction in the number." That's not what I said. This was one of the examples of how words were repeatedly tried to turn around a few times today, so that they came more precisely in some argument than in others. Then there's one more thing. The issue of decision-making today is the amendment of the law, not the coalition agreement, not the SMC electoral programme, the amendment of the law of three applicants. Not SMC and not Custec Lipicer [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u250	Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u251	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. With all due consideration for the Head of the Group of Members, and given that you are new, there is something to know. The Rules of Procedure say that when you explain your voice, explain your voice and the voice of the parliamentary group, not to teach me. You have to tell me that first in those 10 minutes when you're late. It would be right for you to respect this, and I believe, President, that you will also be taking things in this direction so that the Rules of Procedure will be respected by all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-28-SDZ7-Izredna-02.ana.u252	I think it was clear from the debate that the vote would be in favour, but this was not explicitly explained. [[advertising from the hall]] Wait till I explain to the end. At the same time, the fact is that because all Members of Parliament who are new have not yet mastered all matters, they did not report to the debate in time so that they could spend the time they had at their disposal. Is there any other explanation for the vote on the part of the parliamentary groups? [[No, no, ……]] I ask, is there any explanation for the vote by Members and Members? [[No, no, ……]] So we can vote. We are voting on the whole bill. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 8. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this item of the agenda and also the 2nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you for your cooperation.
