ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 56th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. Before we proceed with our work, I would like to inform you that Dr. Mr Franz Zagozhen, Member of the National Assembly for the period 1992-1996 and 1996-2000. We'll honor his memory with a minute of silence. / minute silence/ I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Romana Tomc, Mrs Mateja Pučnik, Mrs Irena Tavčar, Mr Richard Braniselj by 2 p.m., Dr László Göncz, Mr Ljubo Žnidar, mag. Andrej Vizjak, Mr Jožef Jerovšek, Mr Štefan Tisel and Mr Franz Pukšič. I've invited the Prime Minister of the Magnificent Government to the meeting. Mr Alenko Bratušek, candidate for Minister of Health Dr. Alenko Trop Skaza, candidate for Minister of Economic Development and Technology Method Draganjo and candidate for Minister without Director for Relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries, and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world Gorazad Zmavca to the 1st agenda, representative of the Council of State to the 2nd and 3rd agendas and representatives of the Government to all agenda items. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the setting of the agenda of the 56th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday 21 February 2014, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda of the meeting, so I suggest that the assembly set a agenda for today's meeting, as you have received with reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Please check the operation of the voting devices before that. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 56th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. At the moment of the day, it is the list of candidates and candidates for the Minister and the Ministry of Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 112 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 229 and 234 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is mag. Alenka Bratušek proposed to the National Assembly the appointment of Ministers and Minister of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. She submitted the nominations for the Minister and Minister to the President of the National Assembly on 13 February 2014. The President of the Government of the National Assembly therefore proposes to appoint: Dr. Alenko Trop Skaza as Minister of Health, Method Dragonjo for Minister of Economic Development and Technology and Gorazd Žmavc as Minister without a department for relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian national community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world. First, I give my word to the President of the Magi Government. Mr Alenki Bratušek for further explanation of the nomination proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u2	Dear Members and Members! 11 months ago, when the government received your support, I told the team that the responsibility and trust are in hand and that we will therefore have to do everything we can to justify this trust. The decisions we made were often difficult, but we were able to be persistent and prudent enough to provide more sound foundations on which to build the future Slovenia today. By carrying out challenging tasks, the related values of coalition partners proved to be an important common denominator that strengthened and unified the government team, but these criteria also required consistency, which required some members to leave the team. Today, there are three new candidates, a candidate and two candidates, experts with long experience who will each contribute to the goals set by the coalition partners. Before explaining why ministerial candidates deserve your support, allow me a brief look at the past 11 months of our work. Slovenia has been in a difficult economic and financial situation for the last few years, since 2008. The situation in the country deteriorated from month to month. In 2012, however, in addition to the difficult economic situation that has already burdened people, we witnessed the daily threats and pressures of the then government, or, rather, the largest government party, that a radical change is needed, a complete transformation into the so-called second republic. People were scared. There were protests, dissatisfaction among the people was growing. In such a difficult economic and financial situation, which has also had a profound impact on people's values and expectations, we have taken the lead of the government. How we knew that it would be difficult, how we knew that we would have to act quickly, and how we were about the sovereignty of our country. 11 months ago, it didn't take a day for anyone to ask, "Will you really be able to solve your problems yourself?" Or even more directly, "When are you going to ask for help?" I've always argued everywhere that we know what we have to do and that we're going to do it, we just need time to get things done. We don't need help, we just need some time, my words were at the beginning of the mandate. Some refused to take their seriousness seriously, but they were very serious. Today, after 11 months of our work together, no one asks me any more than three years after the surrender of sovereignty into foreign hands. Only by my colleagues from the biggest opposition party of the SDS do I still hear that it would be better to ask for help, to surrender and to leave the country to someone else. This can only be said by those who do not really care about the fate of people, not the country, not the future, better Slovenia. But I tell you and everyone: the first objective of this government is achieved; Slovenia remains a sovereign state. To the end, this is a better Slovenia for all, and much hard work still separates us. At the time of the signing of the cooperation agreement between the four parties to the coalition, I said that the situation in Slovenia is better today than it was a year ago. Let me back that up with some numbers. Economic growth, in fact, declined economic activity at the end of March at the turn of the government was enormous, minus 4.6% of GDP. Less 4,6 % of GDP. In the third quarter of 2013, this is the last data we have available, it was still negative, minus 0.6% of GDP, but I think the difference is obvious, and hard to say on the basis that the situation in the country today is not better than when we took over the government. The graph also shows this obvious difference. Gross investments were in a negative direction at the beginning of 2013 minus 23.6. At the end of the third quarter, really still minimally negative, minus 1.3%, but I think there is also a big step in the right direction. Exports are growing faster than on average in the European Union. Our country's debt has dropped by about a third. With 6%, we have come to about 4%, and the last Janša government is still the government that owes the most so far, with an interest rate of about 5.6%. We will pay more EUR 300 million due to this expensive debt of yours for the debt, than for this last debt we have carried out and there has been a great deal of criticism from the opposition's mouth, but we have carried out this last debt in order to repay past debts. But once again, your debt will cost the country 300 million euros more. So much for Slovenia for maternity benefits. These are one-month pensions for all pensioners. That's three times more than a lady for scholarships. And that is why it is so important that the cost of our debt has been reduced. 5.8 was the interest rate when you took over the government and 5.6 when you left. 5.6 was the interest rate when we took over the government. Today is 4. Here, too, the difference and progress are evident. It is true that the indebtedness of the State has increased. The biggest reason for this is, and also those who are criticizing today, of course, you know this very well, the rehabilitation of the banking system. 15% of GDP debt is due to banks being rehabilitated by the way you chose it, that's with a bad bank. But let's not forget, the worst loans in banks were made in 2006 and 2007. We're healing and correcting our mistakes at that time, and it's true that this school costs us all very dearly. But let's turn from the bad to the better. Dear Members and Members, dear colleagues and colleagues! I firmly believe that these are the right words for our candidates today: a turn for the better. In each of the three areas, such a rotation is expected, possible and necessary. In the recently signed coalition agreement, we have stated that we will launch the economy by strengthening competitiveness, improving the business environment, green development policy, infrastructure projects and new jobs. We have therefore invited an expert with long experience in the economy and once an economic minister, Mr Method Dragonjo. I expect him to make an important contribution to the successful economic recovery of Slovenia. The deleveraging and restructuring of our economy is our next major task, for which appropriate system-wide legislation has already been adopted. In the opinion of Mr Dragonje, the basic conditions for the start-up of the economy are provided in Slovenia and, as Minister, he will strive for a development-oriented, entrepreneurially oriented, modern, competitive and market-oriented socially responsible economy. Important steps await us in the field of health. We have set ourselves the task of modernising public health on the basis of solidarity and accessibility for all and thus ensuring a better public sector. Our candidate for Minister of Health, Dr. Alenka Trop Skaza, comes right from here, from the public sector. She dedicated her career to the profession and gained a lot of experience. Because of her knowledge, interests, personal or personality characteristics, and in particular because of the concrete experience she has gained in her work so far, I am convinced that she is the right candidate for this function. For this reason, I expect her to be able to cope effectively, especially quickly with difficult and complex tasks. The candidates for the Minister for Relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenians around the world are also waiting for the challenging tasks. Gorazd Žmavc has worked with numerous institutions at home and abroad, mainly in the economic field and in the area of local communities and neighbouring regions. That is why I expect him to deepen his relationship and cooperation with our fellow citizens, both in place and in the world of all generations, from former emigrants to the last economic migrants and students abroad. I want all three candidates to start their work as soon as possible as members of the government team. The competent committees have convinced all three of them, so, honourable Members, I propose and ask you to support the list of candidates for the Minister and Ministers. On behalf of the entire team, I promise we'll do everything we can to justify your trust. Allow me to conclude my performance with words addressed to citizens and citizens. With a complete team, great promises, such as economic drive, affordable public health and reborn relations with relatives around the world, are a new test. But those who have endured the most difficult trials in the past few years were just you, citizens and citizens – when you bent in line for a doctor, lost your job, or said good-bye to a child who went looking for bread abroad. And anyone who does not see his fundamental responsibility in eliminating the causes of these difficult trials will have to look for other, different missions and businesses. We intend to work until the end of this mandate to ensure that more people are working, that species are decent to the doctor and that the best stay at home. I want to lead such a government, such colleagues and colleagues I choose, and this is what Slovenia is all about.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u3	Thank you, Prime Minister. In accordance with Rule 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the candidate and the candidate presented themselves to the competent working bodies and responded to questions raised by the members and members of the committees and the Commission. We are moving on to the reports of the competent working bodies, and you have already received opinions. The report of the Health Committee will be presented by the President, Mrs Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u4	Good day to you all! Prim. Dr. Alenka Trop Skaza, candidate for Minister of Health, is 18. 2. 2014 presented to the Health Committee and responded to questions raised by its members and members. In its opening presentation, the proposed candidate for the Minister of Health presented herself first in person and described her career and career path, stressing that she has not so far acted politically. She presented her views and guidelines in the field of health. She stressed that each individual is responsible for improving health, and preventive programmes are also important. Health indicators in Slovenia show that the proportion of the older population is increasing and the proportion of young people is falling, the ratio between the working population and others is decreasing. The big problem is chronically non-communicable diseases, cancers and injuries, and Slovenia emerges among other countries after suicide and abstention. Poor eating habits are present, both in children and adults. As a result, obesity increases, resulting in unhealthy lifestyles. The number of diabetes patients is increasing, and excessive use of alcohol and smoking is a major problem in Slovenia. It further provided comparative data on the proportion of health resources for individual years, resources and the level of resources. The candidate also advocates increased supervision of the management of health establishments, the skipping of waiting types, the supervision of the implementation of public procurement and the requirement for responsibility in such procurements, and responsibility in health investments. She stressed the need to clarify how much money is actually lost in health care through public procurement and whether the number of EUR 500 million is maintained. It also presented its view on the functioning of concessionaires and self-payment ambulances and on the cross-border healthcare directive. She stressed that the country could also achieve lower prices in the field of medicines, so she proposes the introduction of a symbolic prescription for medicines, as Slovenia rejects almost EUR 200 million of medicines annually. It noted that a country with excise duties on tobacco and alcohol collects almost 400 million annually, which it believes should be spent on preventive health programmes rather than on an integrated budget. It also supports the introduction of excise duty on sweet drinks and fatty foods. At the end of the presentation, members and members asked concrete questions, namely: management and rationalisation of public health institutions, the way in which concessions are granted, the way in which supplementary health insurance is regulated and the distribution of benefits from this insurance, the control system in all areas of health care, the long-term care and the means of insurance for such care, corruption in health care and the way in which this problem is addressed at all levels, complementary medicine and self-medication, the use of cannabis for health purposes, health standards and standards, the composition of public service councils and the ways in which members of the Council are appointed, the reference clinics, the emergency centres, the law on medicines and control laboratories, the difficulties in the financing of hospice, the provision of support from the field of resources by the future minister in the appointment of the UKC, the additional benefits of certain health workers due to the nature of their work, for example of radiology and the management of the EU budget, the management of the EU's health contract and the remuneration. The members of the Committee were particularly interested in how the Minister-designate will address the areas of health according to a coalition contract in which health care is not among the priorities of this government, although we are all aware that changes are still necessary; the candidate herself has talked about this. The proposed candidate has provided answers to all the questions raised and has informed the members and members of the Committee in more detail and more specifically of her views, views and opinions, as well as of the proposals for action in specific areas of action within the Ministry and beyond. Following the completion of the presentation of the proposed candidate, the committee adopted the following opinion by 8 votes to one: presentation. Dr. Alenke Trop Skaza, Dr. Whereas, as a candidate for the Minister of Health, she was appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u5	Thank you. The Committee on the Economy's report will be presented by Mrs Alenka Pavlič, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u6	Thank you very much. The President of the Government is 13. 2. 2014 has proposed to the President of the National Assembly that the National Assembly for the Minister of Economic Development and Technology be appointed Method Dragonjo. The methods of Dragonja shall be in accordance with Article 112 of the Constitution and Article 230(1) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. 2. 2014 presented to the members and members of the Committee on the Economy and answered their questions. The proposed candidate stressed that, in his role as Minister, he would advocate a development-oriented, entrepreneurialally oriented, modern, competitive and market-oriented socially responsible economy. He presented key levers and envisaged measures for the start-up of the Slovenian economy, the promotion of Slovenian exports and the improvement of the business environment. The proposed candidate highlighted the following priority areas of the Ministry: improving the business environment, strengthening the competitiveness of Slovenian companies, especially exporters, promoting green technologies and efficient use of energy, promoting vertical links in economic chains and strengthening the competitive advantages of micro and small enterprises. He also presented the key levers he would use as minister to create the conditions for the extension and restructuring of the economy and the main measures envisaged to increase the efficiency of the ministry, the bodies in the composition and the implementing institutions. Members and members of the committee asked the candidate a number of questions and raised some concerns about the solutions presented. The proposed candidate answered the questions raised and informed the members and members of the Committee of their views and proposals for action in specific areas raised by the members and members of the Committee in their questions. Following the completion of the presentation of the candidate, the Committee on the Economy adopted the opinion that the presentation of the Dragonje Method as a candidate for the Minister of Economic Development and Technology was appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u7	Thank you. The Commission's report on relations with Slovenians in place and around the world will be presented by President Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to all present! The President of the Magnificent Government. Alenka Bratušek is 13. 2. 2014 Mr Janko Webr, President of the National Assembly, sent a proposal that the State Council for a Minister without a Department of Relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia appoints the candidate Gorazad Žmavc worldwide. The candidate shall be in accordance with Article 112 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 230(1) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. 2. 2014 presented to the members of the Commission for relations with Slovenians in place and around the world and answered their questions. After a short personal presentation, Gorazd Žmavc, a candidate for a minister without a department for relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian national community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world, focused on the work and competences of the Slovenian Government Office for Slovenia in place and around the world and then presented the main directions for future action. He said that, in view of the experience he has in the field of economic, development and tourism in the local environment, in the future, he would focus a great deal of attention on cooperation with the Slovenian community worldwide as well as in all neighbouring republics, and would have a special dimension in cooperation with the Republic of Croatia as the new Member State of the European Union. It will also be important for the work of the Office in the future to maintain the continuity of work, with all ministries, in particular the Ministry responsible for foreign affairs, education, culture, economy and agriculture, even more responsible and operationally involved in the design and implementation of the Office's programmes. He advocated an even more intensive integration of the interests of young people, especially in the functioning of social life within Slovenian communities. He went on to say that he would advocate the consistent implementation of the coalition treaty signed 14. 2. 2014, in that part relating to cooperation with the Slovenian Community outside the Republic of Slovenia. He also announced the amendment of the Law on Relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians beyond its borders and committed to more operational results of the Strategy for Cooperation between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries in the field of economy. Members and members of the Commission asked the Minister-Minister-free candidate in particular about the need for exchange in a department that did not indicate that he would be problematic, and some of the Slovenian community's actors outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia were amazed. As a positive assessment of the candidate's express concern for economic cooperation between the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovenian community outside it, he was also reminded of the importance of promoting Slovenian identity, language and culture as important connecting elements of Slovenia. It was also recommended that knowledge of the themes of the Slovenian community outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia be more included in educational programmes. Members were interested in the announced amendment of the Act on Relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians beyond its borders, as well as the future regulation of the Office. The candidate was recommended that the sphere of action of the competent minister require systematic approaches and search for systemic solutions and creative action with all groups. The candidate answered the questions raised in the works, ensuring the continuity of the existing good functioning of the director. Finally, the candidate said that he would continue to cooperate well with the Commission for Relations with Slovenians both in place and around the world and stressed that he would strive to act as a competent minister in a coherent manner. Following the completion of the presentation of the proposed candidate, the Commission, by 7 votes in favour and 3 against, adopted the opinion that the presentation of Gorazd Žmavc, the candidate for Minister, was appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u9	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Franc Jurša will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Nice welcome to the Prime Minister with the ministerial team! Of course it's just as much for you, respectable fellows and colleagues! Position of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia on the proposal of the candidate for Minister of Health Alenka Trop Skaza, the candidate for Minister for Economic Development and Technology Method of Draganje and the candidate proposal for a minister without a department for relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian national community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world Goraza Zmavca. In those days it is exactly one year since Janez Janša was voted not to trust the government and a mandate has been given to form a government of mags. Alenke Bratusek. At that time, in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we stressed that we need a strong and effective government, which will be guided by high moral principles, accountability to citizens and the ability to cooperate. With great confidence, we expected the President of the Government to choose a competent ministerial team that would be able to properly evaluate the priorities that are key to the exit from the crisis. In the National Assembly, we have already been informed about the reasons for the resignation of Mr Stepišnik, former Minister of Economy and former Minister of Health of Mr Gantar. Their resignations have shown how important it is that a ministerial team consists of credible persons with a clear vision of the development of a particular area. More recently, however, it has proved to be difficult, virtually impossible, for ministers to work in situations where the interests of individuals are above public good and where corruption is evidently omnipresent. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we know that Tomaž Gantar performed his task as Minister of Health in the circumstances. His vision of saving Slovenian health care was directed in the right direction and contained concrete solutions. Unfortunately, despite all the warnings and the literally alarming situation in Slovenia, there is still not enough political will to combat corruption and implement measures that will keep Slovenian health at a high level, and especially equally accessible to all citizens and citizens. At the DeSUS party, we gave up the management of the medical department because we are aware that Tomaž Gantar was our most suitable candidate for this function in terms of competence and expertise. At the same time, we were aware that our party in the government must maintain two pillars. We are afraid that the Government would otherwise intervene too quickly in pensions and social transfers, which we must not allow. An agreement has been reached with the President of the Government and the coalition partners on the replacement of the resources. In doing so, I must point out that there was no political trade at all, as is very much the case with some media in particular. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the President of the Government has proposed a suitable candidate for a minister or minister, Mrs Trop Skaza and Mr Draganjo, who will now assume the challenging tasks or resources. For your courage and determination in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we congratulate you, but at the same time we invite you to be aware of the importance of your decisions for the future of Slovenia. In particular, we call on the candidate for Minister of Health not to place the burden of saving Slovenian health at the shoulders of the weakest. We will not support this in our Group of Members in any way. As has already been said, in our party and in our parliamentary group, we have, in agreement, proposed a candidate for a minister without a passport from Mr Gorazd Žmavc. That our decision is the right one has also been confirmed at a meeting of the parent working body, where Mr Žmavc has ensured that he will continue his predecessors as much as possible, as he is aware that continuity is crucial to achieving long-term objectives. In addition, he highlighted the concern for economic cooperation between the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovenian community outside it. This cooperation is of course crucial in these times. In the DeSUS Group, we are confident that our candidate will perform the work of a minister without a charter, knowingly responsible, and especially in terms of the greater link between our country and the Slovenians outside it. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposed candidates for ministers. All three of us want a successful job and a lot of happiness at work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u11	Thank you, too. Mag. Matthew Tonin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u12	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! It took us a long time to get to three candidates. Clearly, there is something very wrong in this country that no one wants to run for ministers or ministers anymore, or that communication within the government coalition must be so bad that within three months, the coalition is unable to harmonise and agree on three ministerial candidates. We can rightly ask ourselves if it takes three months for the coalition to bring together three names, how much it would take to harmonise some important political reform; I hope not for three years. What could this government possibly show if the government did not accept, for example, pension reforms, slash expenditure with the ZUJF and set up bad banks. There would be only new taxes and a new debt. In view of the coalition agreement and the current political situation, today's candidates for the minister and the minister at the hearings before the parliamentary committees were unable to say otherwise than that the administrative directors of the ministries will be in office by the end of the term of office. We could not expect anything else from the candidates anyway, because they will have to adapt to the coalition mathematics and its coalition contract, which unfortunately does not offer solutions that could trigger the economic cycle of Slovenia. The coalition, or the President of the Government, had the happiest hand in the selection of the Minister for Economic Development and Technology. Mr Dragonja understands most of the key problems of the economy in Slovenia, but unfortunately with coalition partners who oppose any changes and any reforms, what important achievements he will unfortunately not be able to achieve. Mr Dragonja certainly has good experience in selling the company he has worked in for many years to a foreign strategic partner, so we expect him to put a little more enthusiasm and understanding into the government team for privatisation or the withdrawal of politics from the economy. At the hearing before the Committee, Mr Dragonja also highlighted the need to establish mechanisms to improve the management of state-owned enterprises and to increase the return on their capital. Christian Democrats therefore hope to take this very seriously, because the current new proposal for the Slovenian State Holding Act represents a significant shift from this goal which Mr Dragonja has also set himself. We therefore hope that Mr Dragonja will become one of the most vocal opponents and critics of the current proposal for the Slovenian State Holding Act. With the candidate for Minister of Health, Dr Alenka Trop Skaza, and the candidate for Minister for Slovenians around the world, and in exchange for Mr Žmavc Vlada, she unfortunately had no such happiness or happiness. The first is a conflict of interest, and the second one has slightly less knowledge in the area it takes over. In Novi Slovenije we will therefore pay particular attention to the implementation of the Government Decision of February 2013 that the Ministry of Health and Health Insurance requires the establishment of standards and standards. Until this Decision is implemented, no additional measure can be implemented and fair to all insurers. Without these standards and standards, it is not possible to take the next step, which will transparently and equally count the basket of health rights. We also hope that the candidate for Minister for Slovenians will take over the area he takes over as soon as possible and that he will cultivate an equal and equal attitude towards all our fellow citizens around the world and in place. The new coalition treaty, which was recently signed, is therefore a document of political will. There is no serious commitment in it after any reform activities of the current government. However, the new coalition treaty and today's confirmation of the minister's candidates point to two things. First of all, the government has the ambition to extend the mandate to the end. Second, to maintain the current status quo. Surely it is only by being able to achieve the objectives mentioned above that it will only be possible to achieve them with new taxes and a new debt. Unfortunately, the economic cycle cannot be triggered by a higher tax burden. Slovenia stands up and falls on small and medium-sized enterprises. As Members of Parliament have been briefed on Banka Slovenije days ago, one of the key problems of the current poor economic situation and staggering on the ground is the very indebtedness of small and medium-sized enterprises. And the only measure that would really effectively tackle the current situation is to reduce the tax burden on these small and medium-sized enterprises, as only tax relief would allow them to be deleveraging and investing in development. Unfortunately, the new coalition treaty is not promising this direction. The result of shrinking before reality can also be that all the billions that we have recently invested in the resolution of the banking system will be in vain. If the economy doesn't come back to life, there's nothing that can help us with the rehabilitation of the banking system. Thus, the confirmation of the new ministers is primarily a definition of the direction advocated by the current government. The Christian Democrats of the current work, and also the direction outlined by the new signed coalition treaty, do not support, so we will not support the candidates for ministers.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u13	Thank you. Mr Roberto Battelli will present the position of the Italian and Hungarian Group of National Communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister of the Government, representatives of the Government, distinguished candidates whom I believe to be listening to us at this moment, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the parliamentary group, we have decided to devote this presentation to one of the problems that has not yet been resolved: this is a problem with the implementation of the constitutional provision on the creation of an economic basis for national communities. So it's a matter of economics. This economic base for the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities in the Republic of Slovenia is one of the so-called compensatory minority rights, has a basis in Article 64 of the Constitution and is intended to constitute one of the foundations for the existence, development and subjectivity of indigenous national communities, but unfortunately, in practice this system has never been consistently implemented, and despite our warnings of the true and sincere response by the competent authorities of the executive branch in recent years. As always, the problem in the conceptual approach to the realization of this and other constitutionally guaranteed rights is a problem. Indeed, over time, through government and parliamentary procedures, despite our explicit opposition, this matter has been put on the table. Instead of putting the national communities in a position to contribute to regional development as an entity themselves, they have been transformed into a facility that would further strengthen regional development subsidies mechanisms. With regard to this important content, we therefore propose, inter alia, that the model of this economic base ensure concrete solutions for the transfer of competences from country to national self-government in accordance with Article 64 of the Constitution and in accordance with the Law on Self-Governmental National Communities. At the same time, of course, we want to see a system of financing the economic foundations of indigenous national communities, including periodic invitations and possible other resources, chronologically defined, transparent and flexible in a way that takes account of the actual needs and specificities of each of the national communities. It would be desirable for the system to provide, in a broader sense, its own resources for obtaining funds from domestic and European programmes and calls for proposals. The key to approach these issues is legislation that regulates buying, not legislation that deals with regional development. It is precisely this law on purchase, which, without being explicitly stated, has in fact destroyed many of the assumptions and items, has destroyed the purpose of the funds allocated for this purpose, and has uninterruptedly dispersed those funds in contravention of the purpose for which they were collected and have not been allocated. I can see that you are very bored when the truth is told about what is happening here regarding the written and realized and how these things are essentially turning into their own contradiction, which of course is not happening when it comes to the indigenous Slovenian community outside the borders. Suddenly there are problems that are here and now and that concern Slovenian, it is said in Slovenia that a living indigenous national community, a matter of some boring, as I would say, complaints by representatives of national communities who become the subject of social ridicule because they complain about what is supposed to be guaranteed is not. These things should, however, also be done in this area, as there is now talk about the replacement of the Minister for Economic Development. However, I could speak similarly about education, where things are not being done, about the administration, where bilingualism is not being exercised, about the judiciary, where nothing has been done for years at all, which states that our people will never enjoy the rights guaranteed by the Constitution, international agreements and international conventions in this country. So much for how the rule of law has been shown to members of national communities for decades in Slovenia. That's the truth. If I return to this economic base, I must also point out that everything I have listed in this regard does not require a single euro of increase in budgetary resources for these purposes, but only the good will to put things in the right place. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u15	Thank you, too. Mr Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u16	Honourable President of the National Assembly, President of the Government and Ministerial Assembly, Members and Members of Parliament, and a candidate and candidate at the back. We have before us a list of candidates and candidates for Minister and Minister of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia: Dr. Alenka Trop Skaza, Mr. Methods of Dragonja, and a candidate for Minister without a department for relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian national community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world, Mr. Gorazd Žmavc. It is the three candidates who reflect the weighty consideration of the Prime Minister of the Magnificent Government. Alenka Bratušek, but we are convinced that all three will consistently follow the agreed priorities of coalition partners and thus the needs of our country, so that we can fully normalise the current political situation. There have been many questions and unnecessary deliberations about the delay in the appointment of the new names of these three departments, which we have heard in the opening talks today, but it is important to stress that in order to participate in the Government in these difficult times, people need to be found who, with all their knowledge, expertise and dedication, will be able to follow the pace and mode of work for an early and definitive exit from the crisis. We are confident that, following the hearing of all three candidates on the competent committees, we can say with certainty that today's confirmed candidates will follow the basic guidelines of the government's programme, Alenka Bratušek: the continuation of the consolidation of public finances, the stabilisation of the banking system, the fight against economic crime and its relaunch, the fight against the grey economy, the financial stabilisation of the health system, the urgent correction of the health system based on solidarity and accessibility, the fight against corruption in the context of public procurement. This is just a few basic guidelines that we believe will be successfully implemented by the candidates presented together with the existing ministers and ministers. I am also pleased with the ministerial candidate's statement, which said that the issues in the neighbourhood are currently well settled, thus identifying the work of his predecessor as good and thus predicting that there will be no wide-ranging policy changes at this office. Who, then, are the candidates to be confirmed today? At the recent signing of the coalition agreement, the President of the Government highlighted as one of the key priorities for the functioning of this government and of this coalition the start of the economy. Even in the coalition agreement, a few words and guidance are given on how to achieve this priority. Mr Dragonja Methods, economist, economist and also former Minister for Economic Development of the Government Drnovska, from February 1997 to April 1999, took on an economy which will be developed, entrepreneurship-oriented, modern, competitive and market-oriented socially responsible economy in his presentation to the labour market. Certainly high goals, but if they are expressed by a person who has years of experience talking to himself, these goals get real faces. Mr Dragonja paid particular attention to the export and related part of the Slovenian economy as a valuable component of the Slovenian economy. The vision of further economic development has been defined by Mr Dragonja on an economy based on the existing economic structure and, in view of its competences and potentials, has highlighted in particular the potential of transport electrification, the potential of investment and development of advanced technologies in health and pharmaceutical industry, investment in food production, investment in energy rehabilitation of buildings, in infrastructure investments where the construction of the South Stream is at the forefront, a project of joint Slovenian-Russian investment, that is to say a project which should be implemented in the medium term. Ladies and gentlemen, we know how many hours of debate we have devoted in this House to the issue of the start of economic growth. Countless hours of debate have been devoted to finding the causes of a situation that we all know is all sooner than pink. And if I may, this government is the government that not only detects problems, but also saves them one by one. Thus, the candidate for an economic minister has also seen the need to extend a large one, and I will say too much, part of the economy. Also a perspective that gives us some hope, hope that with the right measures we will only sail out of this story as winners with a few injuries, but still winners. We have all also found that it will not be enough that our banks today are capital-compliant. We have noted that additional mechanisms and measures for the economy will be needed. And as Mr Dragonja presented to us on the parent body, these mechanisms could also include a subordinated capital fund, which, for a certain period, for example, will enter the company for 5 to 7 years, improve the company's capital adequacy and thus burden the company's debt structure for a certain period. This is one of the ideas which today would allow over-indebted or capital-inadequate companies, otherwise prospective, to take on new risks, to acquire the necessary funds to take on new business and to recover from the assets of the ownership-inflicted spiral. The other such mechanism, which Mr Dragonja has given him a lot of attention, is the guarantee schemes, especially those that have also shown positive effects abroad, of course all with one simple precondition: clearly defined objectives and objectives of such mechanisms and measures. The third and fourth mechanisms, the intensification of the export financing instruments already provided by the SID Bank through the export insurance scheme, and the intensification of the scheme to promote development platforms, i.e. in the past, of the already developed platforms which lack effective implementation, and the expansion of their scope, will, of course, help to internationalise the Slovenian economy. The competitiveness of the business environment could also be achieved through the liberalisation of individual activities and professions, by promoting small work and, of course, everything else, which has already been the subject of this national council. Dear comrades! With smart leadership, rapid action and hard work, Slovenia can once again become an economically successful country, a country that will be open to both domestic and foreign investment, a country that will also be open to privatisation with clearly defined objectives, a country that will support development champions in their continued successful internationalisation, encouraging them in their growth and development. Also a country that will be successful in detecting future national economic champions, a country that will clearly identify sectoral orientations in the economic development strategy, priorities based on competitive priority sectors in the region. The vision presented by Mr Dragonja Methods is as convincing for the Group of the Positive Slovenia as it is, and this is also very important, feasible, so of course we will support Mr Method Dragono's economic minister candidate and allow him to make his vision come true without delay. The future Minister of Health, Dr. Alenko Trop Skaza, also has a lot of work to do and a lot of responsibility. I believe that this confidence of the President of the Government, Members and Members, citizens and citizens will also be justified. The goal is clear and common to us: more and better needs to be done for people. It is the words of a candidate who is an experienced expert and an excellent expert in public health. It needs to be heard and heard. Only in this way can we work together with all stakeholders towards a more equitable approach to the accessibility, solidarity and effectiveness of the health system. The fact is that Slovenia needs quality, more effective health care, it needs a clear border between public and private health, the quality of services and the halting of money from the health treasury, at least in a way that we do not really know where it is going. Slovenia needs to be corrected, correcting all the mistakes that have been made so far in the field of health. Let us not forget that despite many problems Slovenia can be proud to be part of a group of 17 countries that provide 100% coverage through health care. Our health system, based on solidarity, fairness and universal accessibility, sometimes more successfully, sometimes less effectively ensures equal access for all people to a comprehensive range of rights, covering ambulances, hospital services, access to medicines and medical devices and public health services. It is also true that 80% of all the money spent in health care is spent by 20% of the people, so it is very important that we maintain and build the solidarity foundations of our health system when each contributes according to its capabilities, sick for the healthy, those who have more, for those who have less, and that we allow all members of the community a fair system of health care accessible to all residents and residents of our country. In her presentation to the mother body, Dr. Alenka Trop Skaza also raised the issue of the financial sustainability system and mentioned the possibility and need to introduce a uniform contribution rate and the need to abolish supplementary health insurance. Above all, we will have to face the final modernisation of the so-called basket of rights covered by compulsory health insurance. The starting points and proposals for amending the Health and Health Insurance Act are prepared. However, the most optimal solution will have to be chosen, one that will be achieved through a broader social agreement. One of the priorities of the government, Alenka Bratušek, is the constant fight against corruption and zero tolerance to this phenomenon. Unfortunately, corruption in healthcare is also a cancer that needs to be healed. At this point, it will be necessary to determine whether they claim that over €500 million is lost through public procurement in this segment. We need a reform of public procurement, and we also need to demand the responsibility of all those, if this is so confirmed, of course. Let us list some of the opinions of the candidate for the Minister of Health, which could stabilise the health sector in the short term. It is extremely important that, of course, we finally adopt the necessary standards and standards for the work of doctors and other staff in order to introduce a system that will allow for the award of more effective health service providers, that we standardise procurement procedures and could also list them. The presentation of Dr. Trop Skaza's candidate on the Health Committee was in-depth, professional, correct, thereby proving that she is aware of her responsibility and the seriousness of the situation in which Slovenian healthcare was located. Ministerial candidate Gorazd Žmavc, according to the legal profession, has been dealing with decades of work experience mainly in the economy and has predicted the most attention – the development of economic cooperation with Slovenians in substitution and around the world. It is worth mentioning that it is not completely without experience or in politics, since in the past he has served as the president of the congregation’s congregation, which is, on condition today, comparable to the mayor’s position. Gorazd Žmavc assesses the current situation in this department for solids and will pay a little more attention to enhanced system support for the operation of substitute organisations and intergenerational cooperation in substitution, worldwide and at home. The ministerial candidate with the announced starting points also has our support. Allow me once again to thank the Minister, who has resigned from the exchange of ministerial departments, Tina Komel, in particular for her work in the Government, and to welcome her to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u17	Thank you, too. Mr Jože Tanko will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye to all of you! It was only today that after almost three months, there was a series of recoverys of the effects of the capture that struck the government after the resignation of Minister of Economy Stanko Stepišnik on 20 November and five days later Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar on 20 November. Instead of the rather rapid completion that would have been expected for the country in these difficult times, it has been delayed in the coalition. When appointing an economy minister, it will take almost 3 months to resign, which means no one has taken a serious interest in the sensitive area of the economy in the government at that time. The appointment of the Minister of Health is similar. The president of the government and the coalition obviously needed time, a lot of time. In the meantime, a new storm took place in the coalition, which caused the forced resignation of Minister for Slovenians in place and around the world of Tina Komel. President DeSUS Karl Erjavec insisted, the Prime Minister of the Government wanted to meet him; the temptation was sufficient, so the Prime Minister of the Government sacrificed her party's minister. And the windmills are going to finish the job today. Otherwise, the introduction of the posts of ministers was accompanied by a solemn signing of the coalition treaty with an agreement for a better Slovenia. At this ceremony, Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek said: "I can say calmly that Slovenia is a better country today than a year ago and that its foundations are healthier." But are the foundations really healthier? Does that hold? Unemployment is the highest ever, moving away and the desire to move an educated youth is the greatest since independence. The increase in the leased money fund jumped in Alenka's year by as much as in Pahor in three years, which means that we owe three times as fast as we have in a record period. We are the only country that is still declining in economic growth; all others have already reached the green branch. It is true, however, that there are no more ordered protestors on the streets, since the uncles with this government have regained what Janša’s government prevented them from doing; they regained their power over the country. Now there is no need to demand the return of a stolen country on the streets, so there is no reason to be alarmed at street protests. Once the archives are closed, there will again be a paradise on Slovenian soil for some, and the places of the century can continue. That the coalition treaty does not contain the necessary solutions and commitments, we have repeatedly warned the Slovenian Democratic Party. There's nothing in it to ensure at least stagnation, except that the country jumps out of an unenviable last place. It does not contain any content that is important for the break-in of Slovenia, i.e. no more difficult but urgently needed solutions and changes for which the Government should work and with which it could even hope that the minus will start to turn into a plus. There are no reforms in it, which means that in that agreement there are only the content that we can define as a daily routine, so something that justifies that you can go to chess, that you can say that you're translating, and that what happens happens is what brings inertia. For the government, it will only be important that the interpretations are timely, that the spin machine will be strong enough, that the media will not call on the streets, that there will be no protests despite significantly deteriorating conditions and that left extremists will be agreed not to attack. Now the most exposed protestors can formally form political parties. The apparent weaknesses of the coalition contract are also noted by numerous financial experts, as well as coalition partners. Let me recall only the comment by the president of the coalition, Karel Erjavac, who said at the time of his signature: "This coalition is different, it is social-democratic, and it is also liberal, and therefore this coalition treaty does not contain all the solutions that we would need at that time." At the same time, Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek praises the agreement, although even in the coalition there is a awareness that this coalition agreement will not bring a breakthrough. More proof that they speak one another, and more proof that they do each other's own way. So much for the value of the words spoken and written down, and the country consciously leads into a worse disaster. The fact is that only Slovenia has not been able to break through, that only Slovenia is the one that has not yet pulled the French-German train. Unemployment is on the rise; as I mentioned earlier, this is a record one. Taxes are growing across all sanity borders; we are witnessing real tax violence against citizens. The monetary or financial spasm is continuing, the management of state assets is functioning in the old way, i.e. confused and opaque, since the Slovenian State holding company has not yet been established. More than content, peripheral matters are important to the Government. For example, it is very important that there is no opposition in the Slovenian State Holding which could see, hear, notice and so on. In almost a year, the government of Alenka Bratušek has not prepared a strategy for the management of state property. She was nostriled over Janš’s salvation, with great contempt and supremacy. Luksic, the president of the Social Democrats, an important government partner, said cynically that they had rejected the Janša government's better proposal and confirmed the weaker coalition. It is understood that it was a conscious decision of the coalition, but for this coalition it is important that Janš's surname be deleted wherever possible, the price is not important. But after about 330 days of Alenka Bratušek's reign, nothing has yet been submitted, except for something better to be presented. On the state property, however, the pets of the uncles, Jankovic, Positive Slovenia and Social Democrats feed. There's a similar story in banks. After providing some more than EUR 100 or 200 million of deposits to the Factor Bank and Probank last May to pay off awards, dividends, payments to owners and the most important depositors, Minister Chufer went to the banks in a programmed liquidation with the blessing of the Government. Instead of cheaper bankruptcy, more costly liquidation and unpredictable consequences for taxpayers. The winding-up administration, in which the causes of the collapse of both banks are partly linked to persons, at least according to available information, has not yet initiated any procedures to determine the responsibility of the previous bank management, at least there is no known. President Alenka Bratušek, not long before, is herself the supervisor of the New Credit Bank Maribor part of the actors in the creation of the bank hole, is not mentioned. The Anti-Corruption Commission has undertaken a review of the situation in banks and is expected to prepare a burdensome report – this is how the Slovenian public was informed – but is being carefully hidden. They don't want to talk about the amounts, or the imported projects, or the names, even though the banks are all signed on the left and the right side of the files. What is the purpose of such a commission if, in this case, an exclusive rule is abolished as in Sicily? In a mockery of all, the KPK, when it hides the data even to the investigative commission, proposes a public hearing of bankers and a public hearing. So how do the KPC and the Government represent responsibility? The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group has repeatedly proposed conclusions at the meetings of the National Assembly to reveal the bad dossiers, the financial consequences of which must be covered by citizens or taxpayers, both by the Government and by the coalition. We proposed amendments to the Banking Act, and the government and the coalition were against it again. The Commission of Inquiry investigating the causes of the bank hole, all of whom are interrogated, deny access to data on political pressures in the distribution of or better in the distribution of bank money, let it be the Commission to prevent corruption, the Bank of Slovenia, bankers and so on. And they all refer to the law, nor do they refer to which and which provisions and the coalition blocks the improvements to the laws proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. The circle is complete. The implementation of the law on the confiscation of property of illegal origin, or the head of the Pahor government, does not have any effect. Little or no high taxation of assets of illicit origin. These two laws are constantly being amended and amended, and more or less it is clear to everyone that there is not so much a problem in these two laws as a willingness to work by law and in accordance with constitutional principles. The government of Alenka Bratusek is consciously violating the constitution. Last May, the National Assembly adopted the entry of a fiscal rule into the Constitution. The votes of the members of Positive Slovenia were decisive. After a visit by Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek in Brussels, like the President of the Government, they suddenly changed their minds and became supporters of the fiscal rule. The Prime Minister of the Government has taken full control of the adoption of the fiscal rule in her performances as one of the key achievements of the start of her term at the head of the Government. However, in the first section of the Constitutional Act, the text of the amendment of the Constitution provides that budgets must be balanced in the medium term or with surpluses, without debt, and that possible provisional exemptions should be provided for by a special law adopted by the National Assembly with two thirds of all Members. However, the second section of the Constitutional Law provides that this law must be adopted within 6 months of the entry into force of the constitutional amendment and that this rule shall apply for the first time in the 2015 budget. The deadline for this marriage expired at the end of November last year. The Government has not prepared this law at all, except to submit it to the National Assembly for adoption, nor has it taken it into account in the preparation of the 2015 budget. The government therefore had no serious intention of preparing this law at all, not entering it into the previous coalition contract and not falling into the Government's normative programme of work, not for last year or this year. Had it not been for the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group before the day of 18 February, we would have threatened to file a constitutional indictment against the President of the Government and the ministers, according to the Constitutional Court, the government of Alenka Bratušek would not have acted at all. Earlier, our Members had repeatedly asked written and oral questions, asked questions at committee meetings, but received vague answers not to say sometimes the lies of visible government officials. So what can we expect from the Government that has decided, despite numerous warnings, to knowingly violate the fundamental legal act of the Republic of Slovenia, the Constitution? To initiate procedures against those responsible in the banks to initiate procedures against those responsible for crimes, murders, kidnappings, i.e. those who were its mental political predecessors and are still its leaders, in order to implement such a human resources policy, which will lead to responsible and non-human delinquency, to act against the occurrence of crime in its own kind? Probably even the biggest suckers gave up. So far, we have submitted some interpretations that have been supported by documents that have pointed not only to the contentious but to the illegal conduct of ministers. The fact is that Minister Virant has used overpriced airline tickets and that the Commission has not been able to draw up a report on these privileged maps for a year to prevent corruption. The entire report on the situation in banks has been prepared by the Commission to prevent corruption earlier. And it seems that Virant's cheap airline tickets to the Commission to prevent corruption are a much more complex problem than a billion-dollar hole in banks. Similarly, when interpreting against the Minister of Infrastructure, Omerzel. There is clear evidence that the Minister’s claims do not hold, irrespective of the declaration of property, without regard to the KPK’s position, since these claims by the Minister denied both the KPK and the document of his company. The issue of bills for a time his company did not have covered by the contract, so in return, the minister did not even try to explain. Despite other claims, it is undeniable that he was making arrangements for new business on Dars. All claims recorded in the interpolation were supported by documents and so on. But the second, the political criteria outweighed everyone else. New interpretations have been filed against Ministers Pical and Virant, and evidence has been re-enacted. The decision of the coalition after this wage should not be difficult. In fact, we should have decided on our own. Minister Jakič is also being investigated for his controversial business in the Stožica project. Maybe the coalition will just look at a little of itself and make a reasonable decision if the ministers don't want to. Hope, though it is less than any government and coalition decision, still exists. One of the candidates for the minister, Mr Dragonja, said at the hearing that he would stand for a subordinate capital fund of EUR 500 million. This project is not in a few days of an old coalition contract, but we hope that the candidate previously coordinated the idea with the President of the Government and that there will soon be a coalition treaty on the table, as well as a budget rebalancing for this year and, of course, the Government's normative programme. Otherwise it will be just a password, something for the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, for the Chamber of Commerce, other chambers and of course for the public. So, a new package or a new shipment of wet dreams. The applicant's claim of a 30% reduction in the number of employees in the Ministry is attractive to the public. But is it realistic and feasible in a year, as he said? It is only feasible for the cohesion policy of the Ministry to be transferred to the cabinet of the President of the Government, so that the 130 to 150 employees will then be in the cabinet of the President of the Government. The net effect will be nothing, which means the minister has already decided on the bluff and the fraud. Similarly, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs could be identified as having the same effect with the Youth Policy Office. The fundamental changes in the health sector, which are controlled by the same circles as the banks and where the discussion of corruption is something most common, more than a basket of rights or waiting periods, is neither the spirit nor the hearing. I guess there won't be enough time, which means that the pyar platform for continuing health corruption is already ready. So we don't even need a minister or a minister. Even now that the work had been done for three months by the doer of duty, nothing was known. The situation has not deteriorated or improved. And there's one more thing. Despite the fact that trade unions have almost been unfeeling in the past year, wages have never been as high as those of the government. Not as direct as indirect, with new or increased taxes. I reiterate that we are witnessing real tax violence. VAT hikes, headless introduction of real estate taxes, reduction of income benefits, raising of KDs, promotion of vineyards, changes in social transfers, and so on, each family carried at least EUR 1000 500 per year, to weak working and farming families in the structure most. And the family is the foundation of every society. Let Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek speak what he wants, but the foundations of the families have not been as bad as they are now for a long time, and they have not even been hit by the impressions. And if they're not solid foundations of families, they can't be solid, they can't be based on the state. Dear colleagues! Individuals of the concept of the work of the Government will not change, regardless of the reputations they have so far. The coalition contract is too weak, without the necessary content and solutions, everything will be done by inertia or routine. Those who graze on budgetary resources or operate with state companies will continue to do so. Various pear agencies and legal offices conclude advisory contracts with state-owned companies or institutions for high monthly flat-rates. The KPK is called the Anti-Corruption Commission and hardly sees or hears anything. She won't even report the problem, even though the National Assembly asked her to do so. Ministers charged with controversial, even criminal acts and their spiritual predecessors will continue to be politically protected caste, as only ways are sought to further limit access to data under the cover of transparency. The abolition of the payment of privileges is not on this government's agenda. The burden of interest is rising rapidly and is caught in investments. We could say a lot more, but it is enough that we members of the Slovenian Democratic Party vote against the list of candidates for ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u19	Thank you, too. Mr Mirko Brulc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u20	Your Honor! It will be a year from the crucial responsibility for decisions in the political space taken by the Government under the leadership of Alenka Bratušek. The government took up its mandate in an uncertain time. The domestic political field has faced more than ever with great mistrust, a policy of unilateral moves which, as dominoes, fell on behalf of the Constitution and justice, of course to the detriment and disintegration of the social state, public education and education. The apparent political stability soon disintegrated under the weight of burdensome reports, which was the top of an icy mountain of policy that cannot offer solutions but only causes new problems. At the time of this government's appearance, the international environment has also demonstrated its full power when we have witnessed the day-to-day predictions of the arrival of the troika in the face of great mistrust. It seemed our financial sovereignty had been damaged for hours. In a turbulent environment, to save Slovenia from the troika, to stabilise the political space and to offer solutions that will go beyond just living on all the content, this coalition is united in the signing of the first coalition treaty. It consists of four equivalent but substantively different parties, the coalition has been united in order to offer Slovenia the opportunity to overcome the obstacles set by the international environment on the path of financial sovereignty. At the same time, remember that there are many crisis hotspots in the home field that need rapid action. At the beginning of this coalition, we have committed ourselves to cooperate that every measure needs a substantial reflection, a reflection on the consequences that could undermine a delicate balance between effective and often uncompromising financial logic and the social foundations of a country already strongly rooted in this crisis. Indeed, it is often forgotten that worrying statistics on unemployment and poverty are much more hidden than a guide to short-term political decisions. The numbers are followed by hardships and legitimate expectations of citizens and citizens following responsible policy action. So politics can no longer afford to search for a safe haven in operation just to put out fires waiting for a new alarm. The crisis has pushed politics into a field where there is no more room for politics just because of it. In this way, there is a lack of room for ideological accounting, client-recalculation tactics, and a policy where issues of content are debated at the expense of short-term interests. Some will have to end with repeated lies and disqualifications, which is also reflected in the question of why it is so difficult to get a candidate for minister. Unfortunately, the coalition must also pour pure wine and face the challenges ahead more decisively in acknowledging its own mistakes. The reality of the three months, and even more intensely of the past few weeks, has shown that this coalition is not immune to all the things that politics must close at present. The absence of a fully-run economic and health sector, areas that are particularly hot in our country, has put this coalition at the crossroads of two paths. We seem to have stayed for quite a long time on the first time in customer accounts. It will be necessary to take a path that will open the door to content. We are at a turning point; not only will we confirm today's list of three candidates for ministers, we are at the point when we have to push the signed coalition contracts into the field of real content. We Social Democrats were a tough negotiator during the negotiations on a new coalition treaty. We are not a party who would carry every achievement or source of the coalition contract in the same breath to the media. We are aware that the Treaty is only a direction towards the objectives set. Much more will have to be done so that these goals can be implemented. We believe that today's vote is a good source, that the economy and health on the map of the necessary measures can once again get the lines drawn. We expect the new Minister of Economy to become not only the subject of negative forecasts, black-sighted reports and analyses, but the central focus of the government's action. This must go beyond the concept of the economy as a mere extension of the financial logic in the search for solutions only in privatisation and in the imaginative expectation of lending the economy, and with the help of capital-enhancing banks, of course. We believe that the economy can overcome the role of the collateral victim of the poor financial situation so far. An active policy promoting the financing and restructuring of companies with healthy cores, investment projects whose initial start-up the country gives, and by strengthening industries with potential, can reverse the negative trend. For too long, health care has been under the weight of too few decisive policy interventions and, on the other hand, in an ever-increasing field of corruption, the interests of large and strong, all at the expense of public health. Social Democrats do not agree with the logic that the health gap is getting bigger, public services are becoming increasingly accessible, and individuals and businesses who are being set up for public health are making millions of profits. It is necessary to put an end to this, so it is the coalition's responsibility to uncompromise in seeking a solution, for every thought, hesitation, and quest for abjectness is water to mills precisely to these anomalies. Social Democrats will also be watching over activities that are less visible in everyday politics, but this does not justify possible passiveness. We welcome the announcement by the future Minister without a passport responsible for the foreigners and Slovenians around the world to strengthen the economic path, while at the same time we expect that the culture, education and other areas that bind our people in the place and in the world with their homeland will not stand by. I reiterate that today's vote goes beyond confirming the list of candidates for ministers as a sign of the consolidation of this government and this coalition. It goes beyond simply confirming political agreements; it is an act that the entire coalition must cash in in order to find solutions to important substantive issues. Above all, we must strive to implement the necessary measures in the economic and health fields, with the knowledge that new ministers must have the necessary political power to implement these. In anticipation of this commitment, the Social Democrats will support the list of candidates for ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u21	Thank you, too. Mag. Katarina Hočevar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Hello, everyone! Yesterday, the Olympic Games ended, at which we proudly monitored the success of our athletes and athletes. And if we still retain a little of this sports spirit today, we can say that we are complementing the government team with new players, and we want success and good moves for the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia as well. In the Citizens' List, we would like to see this perfect government team approach at least as many good and successful reforms as we have achieved in the Olympic Games of the Golden Colleagues by the end of the term of office. That is why we hope and welcome the opinion of the candidate for the Minister of Health, Mrs Alenka Trop Skaza, on what needs to be done in Slovenian health care. Her presentation on the Committee gives us optimism, as Mrs Trop Skaza is obviously aware of the key health problems that we have been drawing attention to in the Civil Gazette all the time. We point out that a basket of rights needs to be overturned. In health, we don't know who's drinking or who's paying. We pay for health insurance, but we don't know exactly what we're getting for it. Primary health care and family medicine doctors should be defined as a basic point of health care, and the health insurance market should be opened. We need to make changes in the management of public health institutions. We must clearly separate public health from private health, but at the same time allow honest conditions for private operators to carry out their activities and compete with both domestic and foreign doctors. That is why we have also written in a refreshing coalition agreement: "We will ensure the financial sustainability of the health system with rationalisation", which was agreed by all coalition parties. Dr Trop Skaza concluded her presentation on the Committee with the thought and hope that her work will be concrete and that it will lead to a slight shift forward in our health system. In the Citizens' List, we want and seek to move on and propose to the Minister that, in addition to all the minor steps, the long-awaited and public assessment of the necessary health reforms be carried out. The medical profession has already told itself what the problems in our health care are. All we need is an active minister who will be able to do work that has been delayed for too long. We hope and believe that the Minister will not disappoint us. The post of Minister of Economic Affairs is also being filled. Mr Dragonja will wear the shoes of the Minister of Economic Affairs for the second time. We are pleased that his long-standing experience and knowledge is ready to be made available to the Republic of Slovenia. The Ministry of Economy will fall under the lion's share of measures to fulfil the commitment to ensure a successful health recovery for Slovenia, so we place our trust in the Minister to listen to the needs of the economists, to give people a free economic initiative and thus a good basis for further broader social development and the well-being of Slovenia. I hope that Mr Dragonja agrees with the assessment of the National Charter that the path to the start of the economy starts with lower taxes, less regulation and the exit of politics and the country from the economy. Mr Dragonja showed at his presentation to the Committee that he was aware of the problems of the Slovenian economy and showed that he was willing to deal with them. First of all, this is the indebtedness of over-indebted companies. Indeed, a candidate for a minister does not have the full mandate, but he has sufficient time to lay sound foundations for increasing productivity and thus for the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. Increasing productivity can only be provided by businesses alone and can only be helped by the state to leave them to work in peace in accordance with the rules set out in the game and to provide an enabling business environment. Slovenia has many business individuals and individuals, so we hope that the new economic minister will let them breathe. This is necessary in addition to oxygen for the economy for the development of Slovenia. A well-functioning economy, new jobs and increasing productivity are the best and also the cheapest social agenda. Mr Gorazd Žmavc is proposed as Minister for Foreigners worldwide. We expect the new minister to continue the work that his predecessors and predecessors have set in particular in strengthening integration with Slovenians around the world and not forgetting that these Slovenians are also part of our nation. However, we welcome the challenge presented by Mr Žmavc to place more emphasis on economic cooperation with Slovenians abroad as a priority. In these days, we have been able to read many of them critically at the expense of a new coalition treaty or cooperation agreement. We know the paper carries a lot. It is also true that all things cannot be predicted and recorded. In recent times, there have been rapid changes and unforeseen developments, and there will certainly be a lot of this in the context of the resources to be led by the proposed candidates. Therefore, more than a program, more than any promises and commitments are important: work transparently, honestly and for the benefit of the people of Slovenia. Happy to all three, happily strengthened to the government and happy Slovenia!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u23	Thank you. Mr Franz Bogovic will present the position of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u24	Good afternoon, distinguished president, colleagues and colleagues! Since I sat a year ago in ministerial benches, which will be completed today with the new minister and two ministers, I do not pretend that there is a simple job ahead of the new members of the government. Therefore, from this point of view, I first express my appreciation or respect for all three of them that they have decided to accept this difficult function in these times. I am convinced that the period ahead of the Government – we are deep in the second half of our mandate, this is a period of one and a half years – is a period in which new ministers have very limited power to influence government policies, and therefore it is imperative that the Government be operational as soon as possible and that good things be done in the country as possible. Eleven months is from what the Government has taken responsibility in this composition, and for the last three months we have been without two key ministers, this is the Minister responsible for economic development and technology, and the Minister responsible for health. It is two key areas in which we all know that steps must be taken in Slovenia in the right direction to boost the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, to finally create more, so that we can share something, and not least that in another area, at the Ministry of Health, we will make reforms to stabilise the health system that breaks down year after year and is just ahead of a threat that in the future in the area of health it will be worse than today if we do not take action if we do not adopt the lack of reforms. As an addition to these two missing ministers, we know why there are vacant ministerial cities, this political bargaining around the minister responsible for the Slovenians who live outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia has been added. This period of the last three months was the period when the coalition decided to correct the coalition contract. Strangely enough, after six, seven, eight months, the coalition contract begins to be repaired. In addition to the replacement of these two missing ministers, the coalition has also worked to a large extent to preserve some other ministers, who have also been threatened with leaving the ministerial premises. This is certainly a situation that is not in favour of decisions of the Government, which is not in favour of the Republic of Slovenia, because at that time our country is in a very serious situation and should do everything but deal with itself. I must say that the introduction to today's point by the President of the Government assessed the situation in the Republic of Slovenia, how much an improved environment has been in this last year – I am afraid that this is again a good pier, that the reality, that the truth is different and that it is simply necessary to look into the eyes and problems of this country at last, or that these problems need to be addressed. It's five years since the crisis in our country. We all know that these five years are marked by the three years of the government of Mr Borut Pahor, one year of the government of another coalition, in which I have also participated, and the last year again by the government of Mrs Alenka Bratušek. I think that Slovenia has made further mistakes in these years in the event of the mistakes made during these years of the conjuncture, which have led us to some certain unenviable situation and certainly not to the situation described at the beginning of this point by the President of the Government, who has predicted in some way almost the period when we will begin to run between and milk. What do I miss so the ministers can be successful? Only one minister in the government is responsible for his area, and it must certainly be coordinated work within the entire coalition, within the government as a whole, so that the minister can also carry out his policy. Unfortunately, there have been a lot of sparks in the past few months just in which way we want to go forward, so I miss a clear agreement in the coalition, which is the path in which the coalition sees a way out of these problems, and which reforms need to be adopted in order to get out of this difficult situation. Just waiting for the circumstances around us to change so much that all of a sudden it'll be enough to divide again, and nothing we'll do about it is essential. That's why I miss that coalition reform charge. As has been said, circumstances are changing, so it is necessary to respond to the changed circumstances, and this charge is simply not available. We must also create the conditions for the ability of society to achieve a broader social consensus, it is said that, in addition to the clear direction of the coalition, agreement will be reached first in this Chamber of Democracy, in Parliament, during the coalition, the opposition, and that we will move from here to a clear agreement also with other social partners, unions, employers, pensioners, young people, with all the stakeholders in the society who point out from day to day a worse situation. And the third thing that we certainly need — we also need state-law leaders who will be able to draw the nation behind us, not create divisions, and in some ways seek only guilt for the situation that has arisen in political opponents. And if I'm talking about three conditions, first of all, it's about a clear coalition plan, I think we have a big problem. The year shown also with some graphs, I think, above all, that is the year in which the effects of the ZUJF that were adopted in another government, not in this government that is now running the country, but it is true that these effects were valid for the whole of last year and that this year was behind us, even a year that we can peacefully call violence against taxpayers. If we look at the alienation of the coalition from reality only in the case of real estate tax, this is more than obvious. I hope the coalition meets their minds. Tomorrow he has the opportunity on the Committee on Finance to talk about the constitutional requirement that this large error be eliminated and to ask ourselves who is responsible for this matter. For what is now being done at the property tax is called by responsibility, and we know clearly that some of us have been very clear, taught by constitutional experts, done simulations of what these laws mean, but the government, coalition stampede has gone its way. Prior to that, other taxes, from VAT hikes, contributions now higher for craftsmen, farmers, changes in income legislation and the like were adopted. It is said that the effects of the ZUJF, which were prepared by someone else and was therefore very critical, were easily attributed to those effects that have been adopted in the context of this so-called violence against taxpayers, are said to be new and new taxes. I'm afraid this model doesn't work out and there's a lack of this economic vision of how to get out of this story. This is where I'm missing my ideas when I'm talking about the first point, which is crucial, is the real deal in the coalition, the greater unity. I've never heard of a coalition other than what anyone disagrees with, that's the first thing. From this stage, too, today, when we talked about ministerial candidates, we were snorkeling to those who would come to a particular area. The same has happened in hearings, similar to when you were looking for suitable candidates, similar to when talking about the necessary measures in a number of areas where competitiveness needs to be increased in this country. The well-respected coalition, if not today, can peacefully say that from this place I am very afraid of what the impact of all three ministerial candidates, which I have already said in the introduction, will be, in some way, to express to them that they are prepared a year and a few months before the elections, a year and a half, to take on this responsible function. Therefore, it is very serious for me to ask whether this was the intention of Mr Draganje to reduce his employment on MGRT by 30%, whether this was an agreed ambition, or whether it was just an investment that was well heard on the committee where he presented himself before his appointment. What will he do about raising competitiveness, if we have, as I said before, more or less ambition for more countries, after more taxes, by worse measures? Where are the roads we're really going to take? Will the Minister of Health be able to suppress corruption? We hear and read from the media, also information comes to various people, that there are quite a lot of people who are connected in one way or another to influential people from the coalition, in some way in some way also in this area. One of the ministers of this coalition has given up on it. I fear that the new minister will be allowed or not allowed to intervene in this area and whether she will pursue it. Will you succeed in the field of health by setting guidelines for health reform, so that we can then reach this consensus within Parliament and in a wider society? In the Slovenian People's Party, we have shown our readiness many times to find this political consensus. We supported the pension reform at some point last year and were very actively involved as an opposition party in the adoption of the fiscal rule, around which there was already a speech today. As we can see, there's nothing going on with him. We also promise to support in some way all measures, health reform reforms, probably also the necessary labour law, where we need to adopt changes in the country. I wonder once again whether a political consensus within the coalition will be reached first, so that we can then transfer it from Parliament and also agree with the other stakeholders in society. Allow me to address in the end this third thesis that I have mentioned that we need good state leaders to lead the country out of this crisis. The hockey players had Anjet Kopitar, and he was the first to be loyal, the best, and he also made the most of his efforts to succeed our hockey players. Unfortunately, once again I can say what I have already said: the words of the President of the Government from this city today and several times from this place, where he has a responsible political function in the past 11 months, do not give me the optimism that Mrs Bratusek would be a person who could connect a policy capable of connecting the Slovenian people and would simply step together, for a simple reason, because from the performance of several accusations of the past, more search for culprits in those who have accepted responsibility at some time, and less looking for what Slovenia and Slovenia are connecting. After all, I can’t help but express from this place the fear that the first of ministers simply does not have an overview of the real situation in the country, because the search for these positive points, which were initially shown, I think is based on very small foundations. I'm an optimist by nature, but you can sow optimism when there's a team behind you that's dedicated to this job, a team that knows what they want, and a team that draws other people behind you. That is why I want a lot of work from this city to the new three ministers, but I also want a lot more influence on the government itself, so that the government will also see the need for cooperation in the Republic of Slovenia and after the search for a common path, and more determination. In view of the political power that has been exposed here today, which ministers must have in order to implement their programmes, I want them to strengthen it, because, in my opinion, these current ministers, who today perform within this division of political power, do not have some important seats in the parties. And if these powers do not increase and remain strong and influential only those who have demonstrated this power so far, I am afraid that this car of the Republic of Slovenia will continue to grow down. This is not what I want, so once again, there is much success for ministers in their work. Hopefully, in the inventory that we're going to be doing in a year and a half, we can write that something positive is done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mrs Alenka Pavlič has the floor to prepare Mrs Marija Plevčak and Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u26	Dragonja method, Minister for the first time, Dragonja method, Minister for the second time. At the hearing, Mr Methods Dragonja, Minister of Economic Development and Technology, presented to us his successful business path so far, both as an economist and as a minister in the Slovenian government. In view of his previous career in the economy, he stressed that he would try, on the basis of long experience and knowledge, to contribute to the successful economic recovery of Slovenia. First of all, he enlightened us on the key realities of the macroeconomic situation, briefly taking Slovenia into account the deep, long-term economic recession and the only country in addition to Cyprus, which is still forecasting negative economic growth in 2014 in the European Union. This increases Slovenia's backlog in economic development within the European Union, and the definition becomes one of the key risks to economic recovery. It believes that the basic conditions for the start-up of the economy are provided in Slovenia, so as a minister, it will work towards a development-oriented, entrepreneurially oriented, modern, competitive and market-oriented socially responsible economy. He stressed that he would strive for such an economy, which, by increasing the added value and creating jobs, would ensure sustainable development while at the same time stimulating the development of other social sub-systems. Mr Dragonja believes that the key elements for starting up the economy are: strengthening competitiveness, improving the business environment, investing in green development policies and infrastructure projects, speeding up the absorption of funds from the European Union's financial perspective. However, the key levers it provides for promoting economic growth are exports and creating conditions for revitalising investments in both public infrastructure and the private sector. It is aware that it is essential to promote innovation, development and research in the public and private sectors, to promote the transfer of research achievements to and successful marketing of companies. As a key element, he highlighted the importance of models for the commercialisation of new technologies and comprehensive education and training at all levels of education. As priority areas for which he would like to take up the ministry, he stated: improving the business environment for both domestic and foreign direct investment, strengthening the competitiveness of Slovenian companies, especially exporters, promoting green technologies and efficient energy use, promoting vertical links in economic chains, and strengthening the competitive advantages of micro and small enterprises. In the area of corporate debt and restructuring, it highlighted an improvement in access to funding sources and a reduction in the costs of financing companies and financial and business restructuring on the basis of the already adopted system-wide legislation. In order to facilitate access to credit resources in banks, its ambition is also the introduction of a subordinated capital fund worth around EUR 500 million, which would enter the company for a period of 5 to 7 years. He explained that this fund could be structured as a hybrid between private and state resources. In order to facilitate access to credit resources, he also highlighted the need to continue to apply guarantee schemes, to intensify export financing instruments by the Bank's SID and incentive and development platforms, and to cooperate with the DUTB. He wanted to increase the efficiency of the ministry, the bodies in its composition and the implementing institutions, and therefore stressed: the establishment of the Directorate for European Cohesion Policy in the government service, the reduction in the number of employees in the Ministry by 30% within one year, the re-establishment of the Slovenian tourism organisation, the adoption of measures concerning the regulation of Spirit's status. Finally, he stressed that Slovenia must develop the entrepreneurial spirit and entrepreneurship, become a favourable destination for domestic and foreign investment, promote employment and detect and encourage national champions in the economy. Mr Dragonja has consistently, with full precision and discretion, also answered the questions raised by the members of the committee. I agree with him that the country is a regulator and partly a proponent and that the state cannot create new jobs, but must lay the foundations and frameworks for investors to do so. I like that, in addition to the conditions for improving the economy, Mr Dragonja also advocates the development of tourism. We are weak in this area, either because of ignorance or because of conflict of interest or because of something else. It's also a gold hole that can bring something into the state cash register. We have written in the tourism development strategy that mountain cycling is an area that can add its contribution. The National Sports Programme also mentions mountain cycling as a potential. But it's illegal. Together with the general public, I believe that mountain cycling should be encouraged and that it has a wider impact on society and citizens, so it deserves a separate law. In defence of this, let me say that mountain biking has a major impact on several areas. It is a sport that belongs to the education and sports sector; it is concerned about the health of citizens, both physically and psychologically, that is, it covers the health sector; it is a tourist branch that is untapped because it is now prohibited and it could bring money into the cash register. Finally, we are proud to have our athletes with the Olympics wearing collages and high rankings, which is why athletes take care of the promotion of Slovenia. Even in mountain cycling we have champions and champions of the world format, European champions and champions, who are not allowed to practice at home, and Slovenia must not compete because mountain cycling is prohibited. Therefore, I ask the future minister to support mountain cycling and, together with other colleagues in the Government, to give the mountain cycling as soon as possible a green light and consequently a separate law. I also strongly support the vision of the future minister on strengthening the woodworking industry, because in Gorenjska, where I come from, the wood industry is already a tradition, so it has to be helped in these difficult times. I am thinking of the successful company Lip Bled, which is successful abroad, and at home is dealing with a whole bunch of problems, from the fact that until recently it did not have access to enough basic raw material, that is, wood, to the remaining bureaucratic barriers. I hope that Mr Minister, currently a candidate, will support the construction of a timber centre in Bled, as they have excellent opportunities together with Bohinj for the development and opening of new jobs. Finally, I think that Mr Dragonje's presentation was appropriate, including the answers to the questions, they were very precise and very detailed. It has been seen that it has a great deal of experience both in the field of the economy and in its first ministerial mandate. I estimate he's on his way to becoming a successful minister in the government of Alenka Bratušek. I wish him a successful job.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maria Plevčak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. Greetings to all present! Today, we are deciding on two extremely responsible positions of ministers. Economic and health is a major problem and a problem in our country. If we are not in this direction, right in the direction of the economy, take a step forward, then I do not see any chance of improving the situation in our country. Given that he has been proposed as Minister of Economy of Mr Methods of Dragonja, I hope and wish that he will be able to work successfully in this area, which he knows very well because he comes from the profession. However, he will probably have quite a few problems at the outset, because there are some companies that are ahead of bankruptcy before moving abroad, and here his work will have to start immediately, now, at the time of taking over. I am convinced that the economic resource is the first violin in the country, of course in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance. These two ministries must definitely cooperate with hand in hand. Even without money, the economy cannot be effective. The second ministry is the Ministry of Health. We know what was going on and why the previous minister resigned. I certainly believe that the Minister will have to take the initiative to maintain public health care, so that all those with enough money can be treated where they can, while at the same time making it possible for public health care for all those on the verge of survival who are unable to afford even the euro for health care. I expect the Minister to arrange or take all necessary steps to ensure that public health is strictly separated from private health. So I expect her immediate engagement here as well. However, I certainly hope that neither of the other ministers will start their work by amending the laws and laws, because this is a habit that we are used to working with, but to take things that are good, and to upgrade them with new regulations that will have a positive effect both on each and the other ministries and, of course, on the satisfaction of all of us citizens. I also have to say that I am very disturbed in public by a lot of comments about the ministry, the search for ministries or ministers for the assembly of vacant cities. It's nice to speak theory, practice is something else. And those of you who have ever worked in the economy know the differences here. It is necessary to be principled, honest, and thus to gather around your work circle even honest and credible personnel. Politics should get out of these places. But she's still too present everywhere. Of course, both ministers will have to have a lot of political will and power to fight corruption and customerism. I think that all Members will have to step up with them and help them with their real proposals and decisions. Here we have a third minister without a licence, and this, as we know, will be responsible for connecting with Slovenians in place and around the world, and will probably also open up the possibility of economic cooperation between the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovenian community outside the Republic of Slovenia. And, of course, it will also take care because we talk a lot about tourism, about tourism exchanges, because our country lies in a pleasant environment and there are a lot of opportunities for tourism. At the end of the day, of course, I want all three of us to have as few obstacles at work as possible and that their efforts will be directed towards a positive solution and for the benefit of all of us who live in this beautiful Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Joseph Horvat. I ask that Mr Zvonko Černač, Dr Andreja Črnak Maglič and Mrs Alenka Bikar be prepared for him.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected Slovenian government! First, one initiative for you, Madam Vice-President – I think we need to change the business guidelines and rules that when we have such meetings, it is only good that the candidates for ministers and ministers are here in the Chamber. It's hard to talk to someone and someone when you don't look him in the eye. We need to fix this. Colleagues and colleagues, more than anything else today, Slovenia needs political unification, political unification. And in this political unification, we should unify ourselves by the end of the mandate by the end of 2015, maybe not anymore, maybe just about three priorities and then put them together. But it's embarrassing for the opposition to invite the coalition to participate. The coalition is the one who must offer his hand to the opposition. As for New Slovenia, we are ready to help. Slovenia is drowning today, Slovenia is drowning. We see this, Members and leadership of New Slovenia, when we visited 17 regions at that time. It's 17 regions. We want to realize one of our political directions, which we wrote down with two words, is "near to the people". And people are telling us that Slovenia is a land of two lists. We all read daily newspapers, we listen to radio, we watch television. Day after day we, at least me, are burdened by a variety of lists, lists of politicians who have received cheap airline tickets, lists of beneficiaries of high bank loans that will never be repaid, lists of privileged fighter pensions, lists of tycoons who have wrongly seized property at the expense of a small man. We have unequal criteria in the Slovenian justice system because we do not have a rule of law. And on the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, we have a list of hardworking citizens, small entrepreneurs, workers, farmers who turn around, 20 times each euro before they spend it, if they have any euro in their pocket by the end of the month. And they pay in some respect for the tax or civil obligation not to be enforced, sometimes for 20 euros. Yesterday we were with the President of New Slovenia, Mrs Ljudmilo Novak, among the people in several municipalities in Pomurje. Ladies and gentlemen, the real world is such that there is despair on the ground, there is despair in the countryside, especially now that people have received informational calculations for the property tax. And lately I find that not only are we a land of two lists, but we are a land of two worlds. One is the real world, and the other is the parallel world that this government lives in. Everything is better than it was a year ago, everything is oh and at all, we live incredibly well. I'd like to make this happen to the government, and I'll be the first to congratulate the government when it does. I'm sorry about the emotional speech, but I'm going to talk about the candidate for Minister of the Economy right now. I think it is crucial, and indeed, as I have said many times before, in the style of Steve Ballmer, we should all be here yelling at the economy, the economy, the economy and once again the economy! I am Mr Metod Kodnja – I know his history, at least I know his references, which he reached abroad in the field of corporate governance and so on – at his presentation to the committee positively surprised and I am pleased in some way to have decided on his ministerial position. When I watched and listened to his presentation, I had to ask him, "Mr. Dragonja, do you have absolute political support with the Prime Minister, Mrs. Alenka Bratušek?" There was no answer. Today, an economic minister should be a prime minister, even if this is somehow ill-heard, because otherwise there will be nothing, nothing will happen to those ideas he presented to us on the slides and in his oral performance. We do not have an economic strategy today – to understand what I am pointing out is not only the fault of this government, but this government today has the greatest political power in this country and can do anything, of course, good for citizens. We don't have an economic strategy, so we don't have a strategy for Slovenian foreign policy or economic diplomacy, because we don't know which way we want to go. And if we don't know the direction, then, we all know, all the winds are good. Madam President of the Government repeatedly says and chooses such a scale on the coordination system that this economic growth from minus 4.6 to minus 0.6 is very steep. More than a 45-degree slope has a curve, or movement, drawn by the Prime Minister. I would like to ask her here - I hope she listens to us - what are the economic measures of this government that have contributed to this economic growth from minus 4.6 to minus 0.6. Has the government identified these measures? If there are, then they need to be stepped up to make this economic growth even higher. But I wonder what our people have to gain from this growth. There are more and more on the road; 130 thousand are the number of the unemployed, and there will be more tomorrow. What helps the Pmurje region to win the Cannes International Award as the most attractive region for foreign investors, when investors arrive and all doors are closed in Ljubljana? And Slovenia is still hermetically closed. And since Mr Dragonja has not assured the President of the Government that he has absolute political support, I am skeptical that he will realize his vision, so he has not received my support on the committee. We will do the same in voting on the other two candidates and candidates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u32	Nice greetings to all present! In fact, we are not just talking about individual candidates and candidates for ministers and ministers today, but we are talking in a way about the government of Alenka Bratušek as a whole. Almost three months have passed since this government without ministers in its two key areas, in the economy, in health, and when this government of Alenka Bratušek has lost some other key people who have acted within its cabinet for a little while and whose statements have spoken about it, at least when they have been appointed to these places, that the economic picture of this country will be substantially altered within a year. Mr Stepišnik, Minister of Economy, then resigned. Why is that? Because of a little minor sin, like some of his other colleagues still sitting in government ranks, on the list. The State Secretary, who was responsible for investments, resigned directly to support the economy, which discussed how this government would start economic growth in a bad year, led to the extension of companies sitting here in government benches when solutions were being sought for Pekko. As you know, this story ended unfortunately. Unfortunately, his attempt to save Cimos and so on also ends. But this story happily ends in person for him. Directly from the cabinet of Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek, he turned to Luke Koper's first husband. And that is why today, when we talk about the completion of the government of Alenka Bratušek, we cannot only talk about individual people, members of this government; we are talking about the competence of the Government as a whole. And if there are no complete competences, then unfortunately they cannot be improved by even the most competent people. Several times there has been mention of a candidate for the Minister of Economy, in which, when we listened to him, we somehow got the feeling that he was not aware of what kind of government he was actually joining. Probably a large part of what he was talking about on the parental committee would even come true, but in another government, he will not be able to do so in the government of Alenka Bratušek, because its political platform, its way of functioning, its paradigm is completely contrary to what this candidate as minister advocates in this area. It is certain that he will not be able to realize this minimum commitment when he spoke of the likely over 30% of the people in the Ministry of the Economy and that it would be more useful for them to find another job, not to speak, of course, of other actions that the government of Alenka Bratušek would have to do in the public sector, if it were to actually preserve what it has been stressing, our sovereignty. For our sovereignty is not preserved by an expensive, overly expensive debt. As a result, our sovereignty has not been maintained or improved in the past year, as an explanation to humans, but has decreased significantly. We are much less sovereign today than we were a year ago. First, because we are significantly more indebted because public debt has increased by as much in the three years of the Pahor government in a bad year, and secondly because this public debt has increased under extremely high interest rates. Is it normal for a state company to have three times less interest on its liabilities under the leased loans than the state? Of course, this is not normal, which means that if the government of Alenka Bratušek were to lead a different policy, it would be cheaper, but it did not, but it did not, and thus threatened the long-term future of many young people, all those who are talking about having to knock on doors abroad because they do not get a job at home. And this is one of the major problems of this country that has grown worse in the last 11 months. Not only has unemployment increased, structural unemployment also increased. There are increasing numbers of people, young people looking for first employment and unable to get to work, increasingly, and nothing has been done in this field. We have heard great words about the programmes for young people to be made, about €9 million, which have been negotiated from one European fund for this purpose, in order to change these structural imbalances. But the effect of the program, measures that would help to make this picture turn in the other direction, is not. And even in this coalition treaty, which is supposed to be implemented by the new ministers and the minister, you speak and repeat the same words all the time. We have been hearing about the extension of the economy for almost a year. We have been hearing about the start-up of the economy all the time, a little less or nothing about concrete measures, and much more because it is not a four-year term, but it is a good year and a half. For a good year and a half, when what was signed and recorded, at least to a large extent, was realized. There is no doubt that these indicators will improve. At the beginning of today's presentation by the Prime Minister and ministers, which was not the case, we listened in particular to her eulogy about the achievements of this government and the repeated criticism of the previous government. And in this context, of course, we listened to the mantra about how economic indicators are better today than they were a year ago, because the fall is lower than it was a year ago and so on. Of course, we have not listened to the other side of this medal, that this country, and thus all citizens, is significantly more in debt than ever before, that the burden of this interest will be borne mainly by the young generation and that in one part this debt has been achieved by enormous interest rates, because it is not possible to compare the 3-year debt with the 10-year-old debt that the President of the Government has done. And it is not to say that the most expensive debt was realized at the time that the Ministry of Finance led Dr. Janez Šuštersič, but was the most expensive debt realized in the mandate of this government, when the Ministry of Finance led Dr. Uroš Čufer. But that doesn't even matter so much that we're fighting here for the cover of the shadow. It is important whether it could be made cheaper and thus actually have a long-term impact on our greater sovereignty or not, and this challenge has not been accepted by this government and has put us in a great debt spiral. This figure is approaching EUR 30 billion, at annual level only for interest payments of around EUR billion, at annual budget revenues of around EUR 8 billion, a figure that no economy can bear. Only if we had 5 to 6% of economic growth at annual level could we manage such burdens, but not at negative or a few tenths of a percentage of economic growth, which we will approach at the end of this year or next year. And of course, yes – thank God we're coming from this recession, because all the squares around us are already warmed up. Slovenia remains the only red point this year with negative economic growth in Eurospace, and given that we are on an ongoing financial perspective, we should do something really wrong so that all these effects of this investment are not known anywhere. Therefore, there are no concrete measures, no time-dimensional measures, and also some commitments that would follow if this were not achieved. As a result, these forecasts in economic and other areas are likely to be unrealistic. The President of the Government also spoke about the types in which citizens of the year and year, even during the time of her government – although she did leave out – stand in line for the doctor and so on. But this government has created new species, extraordinary species, bureaucratic species. They are held by citizens for the last week before the windows of the administrative units and the exhibition of Gurs. They were completely unnecessary. There was no need to create them, there was no reason. When adopting the Real Estate Tax Act, we have warned that the system for the introduction of such a tax as was lawful and as you have enacted it is not ready, and the consequences of this decision are now showing – not tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of citizens will have to waste their time in the coming days, weeks and months to deal with some administrative, bureaucratic errors. This is actually Slovenia's kind of bureaucratic species created by the government of Alenka Bratušek. As a result, this government is completely incompetent to be able to talk about any substantive measures in other areas if it has cooked one of the greatest disgraces in the last 20 years. And it would be right to cut these things apart regardless of the decision of the Constitutional Court. It has to be poured with the ashes and it has to be admitted that the system was not ready. Let this year run through the old system and prepare everything it takes to put in place a new system in the second year, and, of course, remove or eliminate all those nebulos, where there are most of these problems because you have introduced some refugees that no country knows about taxation of these properties. I'm talking about residential, non-residential properties and the like, where really funny things happen. This has almost no financial impact. So the species that the President of the Government has talked about should be stressed that this government unfortunately creates them, and if it creates them, new and new ones, even where we have not known them so far and where they are unnecessary, even in the area where people are most in pain because their health is threatened, unfortunately they will not be able to eliminate them, irrespective of the competences and abilities of the Minister. Let me not be offended when we celebrated the 25-year-old party, the chairman of our committee in the place where we celebrated said something like this – I will take about and hope that he will not offend me with his words. He said, "The Titanic was built by professionals, Noah's ark amateurs." As I monitored the signing of the coalition treaty and the statements at the same time, I felt that there were professionals at work again, not because of individual ministers and ministers entering this government. The incompetence of these names cannot, of course, be supported by this government, because unfortunately their work will not be fully realized as it could have been if the government team were different as we know it today.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The text is by Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič, followed by Mr Jakob Preseknik and Mr Branko Smodiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, good-bye! It's true, we've been waiting for ministers for quite some time, but it seems like the Prime Minister had quite a happy hand. In particular, for the Minister of Economy, we can say that we will have an experienced man on the government team, one who has a wealth of experience in an area that he will somehow manage or control, and on the other hand a man who has already had experience with the ministry. His programme, at least for me, although I am not a very knowledgeable person in this area, has fully convinced him and I can only wish him luck that he will do as much with our help as possible to stop the negative trends in the economy and, of course, that the train will turn up again. Even for the concrete measures he is planning, it seems to me that they are going in the right direction. More than that, I would like to say about the health field and the candidate for the new minister. She was pleasantly surprised by her really good knowledge of an area in which she has, after all, been working professionally for more than 20 years. What seems very important to me is that it comes from public health, that is, after many years, we have a minister or minister who does not come from the types of clinics, but from below, as it is called, someone who knows the health picture of the population and knows what needs to be done. I therefore hope that it will fulfil one of its first commitments, that it will also give absolute priority to primary public health and, of course, primary health care. See if somewhere in the world the ratio of funds allocated for basic health care and for secondary and tertiary activities is 50 :50, this is the ratio in Slovenia 20:80 to the harm of basic health care. This trend, given the exceptional role played by basic health care, must be interrupted in any way, strengthened in order to enable this strengthened team to play an effective role, on the one hand, in providing those health services which, of course, such an profession can provide, and of course, to represent some kind of guardian in what cases they then travel to higher levels, which, of course, are more demanding and, of course, more expensive. Of course, I must not fail to say that the Social Democrats are great advocates of public health. And, of course, in this public health sector, this also means for us to make a clear distinction between public and private, that we will not have amphibians on one side uncontrolledly moving from one system to another and, of course, do so to a large extent in a non-transparent way, and, on the other hand, that what is private must follow roughly the same criteria as in the public system if it is financed from it. It is a matter of applying the same accounting standards, a transparent way of keeping books and, of course, also controlling them. The second thing that is very important to us in our activities is, of course, zero tolerance for any form of corruption. Look, more than two months have passed since the outbreak of major corruption affairs in health care, but to this day none of these issues have experienced epilogues, and people wonder what God's will is done by those who are law enforcement authorities, and on the other hand those who, of course, have to ensure effective supervision and the criteria that something similar will no longer happen, which means, of course, the regulation of the field of public procurement, transparency, standardisation and more control over how this is done. The candidate herself mentioned a direction that is also very important for us Social Democrats, this is the abolition of supplementary health insurance. Complementary health insurance, which together with the funds directly paid out of our pocket, represents already 30% of the funding of our health care. This places us among the countries with the highest share of funds directly from the pocket. And on the other hand — why is this important? Because the supplementary health insurance system is such that we pay for it all the same, the ones with very very thick wallets, and those who practically barely tie the end to the end. The replacement system should therefore be put in place at the end of this exercise. And this alternative system, of course, must not be such as to burden the economy, but we can solve this problem in a way that the compulsory health benefit, which is also advocated by the candidate, will burden the net income, in a way that takes into account the socio-economic situation of the beneficiary. This will make the system more just. And this means, for us, one of the key requirements that we put in place in terms of healthcare and health insurance is precisely because we know that time is not unlimited. It is necessary to address root problems and start with those that are most important. I like that the candidate stressed that in some areas she will not detect hot water, that her predecessors have done important work. I'm giving them a confession myself, each of them really tried, but in 10 years we haven't seen any reform. And it is impossible to expect the reform to be carried out from today to tomorrow, impossible. So once again, priorities are important, and — and now — what I especially place on her heart — the search for the maximum possible consensus. We were recently informed that the Health Council had been appointed. It consists of people who are, of course, important experts and doctors who have their own vision of how to develop health care. But health care is not just a medical activity known to doctors. In addition to these, other health professionals know about health care, which is an essential part of this meal. Health care is also a user. Health care providers are health care users and solutions must therefore be sought in agreement with everyone. If it comes to unilateral decisions, we're not going to pull this medical wagon anywhere. This has been shown by the experience of the predecessors and I therefore plead that we take this warning seriously and that we sit together and look for the maximum possible consensus. Finally, I also agree with the opposition – health care is too important to become an area of a narrow group of people. And of course, to a minister who has a lot of courage and has entered into very unpleasant shoes, I want a lot of success in my work, and, of course, I also offer a hand to find solutions for our common good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u35	Thank you very much. In front of Mr Branko Smodish, Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u36	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Given that I have relatively little time, I will only say some things to other colleagues for a while. First of all, I would like to comment a little bit, or I would like to comment on some of the information that she gave at the opening presentation of the President of the Government, in particular the information on the assessment of Slovenia's indebtedness over the past years. So, I believe and believe that the financiers who deal with these problems and who know that, these data were literally misleading. All financiers know that the most expensive debt was in November 2013 – that is, the one carried out recently – and also with an unknown buyer. However, the comparison between October 2012 and May 2013 is virtually equal. Of course, it is necessary to take into account the debts or charges required on a 3-year bond, on a 10-year bond, because if we use them directly, linearly, we compare pears with apples many times, as we usually say. So much for these duties and misleading data, which, of course, come at such a debate. Secondly, what I mean in the introduction is that in Slovenia, unfortunately, the government has a rather exceptional situation in the field of these notifications, which we receive, is given to property owners as an estimated tax liability. One of the objectives of this new real estate tax law was, however, good. This is to arrange some records to regulate ownership, but what we have always warned should be settled within a certain time limit, for example within one year, for this time period, to apply some other measures to complete the state treasury and, of course, to settle these matters this year. Now, as I said in the debate at the time, we will become world champions in that two spouses live on different addresses, one in Celje, the other in Piran, or vice versa, that we have an infinite number of personal services which lawyers believe are not so simple matters and can bring into future major problems in the area of property ownership and use. We are certainly not aware of this today, but I am going on today's topic, to three candidates for ministers in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. So earlier, I think one of the colleagues said that the Prime Minister of the Government had a happy hand in appointing three candidates. I'd like this happy date to put these signatures under three candidates about three months ago when this problem occurred. I was alone at the presentation of the candidate for Minister of Health. It's a good forecast for her work. However, I wonder why these candidates — or should have been ministers three months ago — did not participate in writing a coalition contract. It would certainly be better, better, and would mean greater progress in Slovenia. I'll get it over with. As we have already said in the opinion of the Group, the coalition must, of course, give its vote for the new ministers and, with these new ministers, act for the good of Slovenia by the end of the term of office. But we'll see how it goes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Smodiš has the floor, followed by Mr Jerko Čehovin, mag. Ivan Vogrin and Mr. Just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. All present, good afternoon! I'm just going to focus on the candidates, because there's already been a lot of other mentions about what's not going on here. At this time of crisis and turbulence, the candidate for Minister and Minister has taken a very courageous decision and a great deal of responsibility, especially Mr Methods of Dragonja, because she is taking over the ministry most expected of her, and that is economic growth. He'll have the hardest job of all ministers. In my presentation, Mr Dragonja convinced me that he was a suitable candidate. I also hope that, as Minister, the Ministry of Economy will be able to drive alongside the Ministry of Finance and that it will indeed be economic growth. Furthermore, it will not be any easier for Ms Alenki Trop Skaza to run for Minister of Health. She will need a lot of bargaining skills and patience, as she will have to negotiate with the medical board, trade unions, insurance companies, and others. Especially will it be difficult to bite into the acid apple of corruption in health, which will be, I think, the hardest task. As you know, the Social Democrats advocate public health and I am also one of the advocates for the abolition of voluntary health insurance. All three candidates will really need a lot of fitness and strength to be able to steer between a lot of herds, and as I can see, they're going to get a lot more. Since everything has already been told and I am one of those who really don't like to repeat themselves, I would only end up adding: I will support all three candidates, I want a lot of courage, patience, success, and happiness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Jerko Čehovin has the floor. After that, instead of Mrs Eve Irgle, Dr. Vinko Gorenak was prepared and then Mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u40	Thank you. Very briefly. I will stick mainly to the agenda, and I will not discuss in a broad way any catastrophe that is yet to come, because we already have enough of these. I think it is particularly important to note that these names, which are on the table here today, will help to ensure that the Government is complete, and I want them in particular to carry out their tasks successfully, and I do not doubt that they will focus on their work and solve their problems with all their energy and effort. I don't think we need to tell each other that the problems are big and difficult, but the main thing is that they are primarily competent people, especially if I say a little more about Mr Dragonja here. I have known him for a very long time, since we worked together at the Chamber of Commerce and also at the then Triglav Insurance Community and elsewhere, and I must say that it is indeed a gentleman in the right sense of the word, for a serious man who also applies what he promises. I believe that, in the first stage of the economy, we should move in particular what is possible as quickly as possible, this is primarily the extension of businesses, this is the main problem which Slovenia 'bremza', if I use this term, in order to pick up faster. Then it is important to take some measures within the Ministry's organisation itself, and at least personally, which is very close to me and I am also constantly repeating, the fastest these effects could be achieved in the tourism sector, which is not only one of the rare industries that recorded a positive trend in last year, but also has the most potential to adapt very quickly. Finally, it is the export of services, in which foreign tourists also pay our taxes. So there is a multiple effect, and I think there is actually a need to pay more attention to this area, but above all I think it is necessary to set up a Slovenian tourism organisation back. I will not discuss the other two, because, if I say so, I have not participated in the talks and these areas are somewhat less at my heart, but I believe in the choice, the arrangements and I expect that these human resources reinforcements will help the government implement what we have agreed.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Our rules are really a little bit unusual for a basic reason, because we're simply talking about people who aren't here, or in the parable: for the first time we've heard about some of these people, and it's about like going to the market, blindfolding yourself and going from the counter to the counter and saying, "Yeah, that's potatoes, that's tomatoes." That's why it's a little unusual. I think that none of the candidates have the opportunity, but even if they are so little gilded, let's say – we know only one of these two – there is no special possibility of success, but because of a government like the government in Slovenia at the moment. That is why I will first talk about the state of democracy in Slovenia, the state of the National Assembly, of course, in connection with governments, where this is directly linked. We often hear in public, or from advocates more left-wing political options, or simple people when they say, "Ah, because you are all the same together, because you are always in power one and the same, there in Ljubljana." And so on and so forth. However, it must be made very clear that if we somehow exclude the first self-sustainment government, which has carried out two key projects which many opposed – of course, I am talking mainly about self-sustainment and the beginning of integration into the European or international field from the point of view of recognition and so on – then the situation is relatively clear. In Slovenia, there are two thirds of the left-wing policy options and one third or less of the right-wing policy options. So also the responsibility for the situation in Slovenia is so approximately distributed, two thirds of the left policy option and one third of ours. As far as the formation of our governments is concerned, the situation has been relatively abnormal since 1996, a situation that does not indicate a perfectly normal state of democracy in the country. This is, of course, more possible than any systems that ruled until yesterday in Ukraine, Venezuela and elsewhere. Why do I say that? For a fundamental reason, because it is clear in normal parliamentary democracy that it is to form before or after the elections, best before, some coalition that citizens in elections "buy" it, and this coalition then leads the country. Of course, that's not the case with us. Since 1996 — in 1996, the left hand side has won the right political option and then some money has gone on the road and a voice has been bought, first with Mr. Rupar, and then somewhere else. And there was another government. But let's go to a modern period, period after the last elections. After the last elections or just before the last elections, however, we have a political party that was made quickly and domestically, the will of the people who have influence in this country and not the will of the people. Then, of course, this party won the elections by supporting the media that are under the command of these same people in this country, and we got a potential candidate to run this country, that is, Positive Slovenia. But see, wouldn't it be normal for Positive Slovenia, as a winner in elections, to form a coalition, set conditions and rule for four years? That would be normal, but that's not true. Someone else has decided with us, this is DeSUS, for example, and the Civil Gazette, and not the one who won the elections. Not the one who wins the election, but the one who wins the election at least. Let's move on. So, this is how Janša's government came into being, and not only will our party leader, namely Janez Janša, but at the will of those who are now sitting opposite me, DeSUS and the National Gazette in the first place. Then again, one would expect that this would take some normal parliamentary period, and there would be a commission that the European Union does not know, a commission that the European Union does not know anywhere. Except in Croatia, Bosnia, Serbia, Albania and Latvia there are no such commissions. And even in those countries where they are, they don't have that kind of authority. And this commission decides: the government of Janez Janša must fall. Of course, that is also the decision of the protestors. Their representative, Lenart Zajc, told you about the Primorski news: "The rebels who, during the rebellion against Janša, had very strong support for trade unions and media, and the uncles helped us with all the necessary infrastructure." That's what he said. And we got some new government, the one we should have since the election. But she did not decide again Positive Slovenia, but decided someone else, those gentlemen who organized demonstrations and, of course, those parties who stepped out of the previous government and joined the current government. So we can't talk about people deciding on elections. This simply doesn't apply to Slovenia. They decide small political parties and decide gentlemen from the background who have capital, have money to organise demonstrations and have media under their command. And we get to this government. And then, of course, these same media are selling us a story that in Slovenia is actually a fundamental problem of right extremism. The show is made by someone who says to himself that he's an anarchist, he tells himself that. He's got Osama bin Laden on his shirt, a hand-sharp, and that's an independent journalist who talks about right-wing extremism and rapes Slovenia with it. Right-wing extremism probably threw away the government of Janez Janša — but not me, stupidity. If someone threw it, it was left over, no one else, and no matter how we look at it. So, as I said, there is no normal parliamentary democracy in Slovenia, but we are still a mixture of virtual democracy guaranteed in the Constitution and the situation as it is in Ukraine. Or Venezuela, because it's the same story. But we are not yet where Egypt is, but where it is already a military hereditary function to be the president of the country. Let me get this straight. Look, in such situations, and until we get to the normal situation in this country, as people voted in 1997 at the referendum, if I am not mistaken, this is the majority electoral system, of course, until then there will be no normal situation in this country and there will be no normal responsibility. Either the lions win or the right ones win, but who wins. But those who have won must take full responsibility for the rule in all four years. What's going on with this government, and we see - first they fold together, Klemenčič takes Supercleber and that together evil, and this Supercleber still holds. But look, at the same time – look, Klemenčič can send you out of power today, and he doesn't want to do that, he doesn't want to do that. Why? He's got to write a flight ticket report, and he's not gonna do it. He's not gonna do that. So who's making the decision? Humanity? No, no, no. We decide here, some, small parties. Those who win the elections, whether it's a combined list or it's a positive Slovenia or it's us, who, however, they don't make the decisions, they don't make the decisions. And so this is the fundamental problem of this country. And until we get to some normal state, it won't be any different. Let me get this straight. Of course, it would be perfectly normal for you to write your coalition contract for the entire term of office. That's how you wrote it for a year. What's the current coalition contract? A set of desires on 44 pages, if that's what I saw, which isn't even an expensive desire, but it's a collection of something that holds the ideological glue, Klemenczyk's SuperCleber. That's right. But where privatisation is to be said – nente, we threw ourselves out. Why did we throw it out? Because we know it won't go through because SD will go against it. Where there are other things, such as pensions, you threw out — why? Because Dessus is going to be against it. Where there's a third thing, and you know there's going to be a third party against it, and you threw it out. So we have a coalition contract, in which three new ministers are coming, who did not participate in the coalition agreement, and we have a government held by Superkleber Goran Klemenčič, the rebels, the uncles from the background, who will rule until the 2015 elections. But then the story will repeat itself, repeat itself, in view of the fact that some of them will naturally become small customers from those big ones, and new faces will come in, and Mr. Keber will sell himself as a new face, even though he has been in LDS for 20 years and so on and so on. Look, it's people's paint, it's not parliamentary democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin. Mr Bevk is preparing for him and then Mrs Ludmila Novak is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The subordinate capital fund proposed by the candidate for Finance Minister of the Methods of Dragon may be a good additional option for the financial unloading of medium-sized enterprises, provided that it has mostly external investors who will define clear conditions and objectives. I wasn't wrong when I said candidate for finance minister, because I read that in finance 21. 2. 2014 and probably Lapsus, or perhaps Finance, as a newspaper that does bring useful things, tried to say that the Minister of Economy should have the power of a finance minister. In fact, the economy is the heart of every country, and this country is dying because her heart is killing her. But it was because of what my friend, neighbor Stefan Korošec, said yesterday: "You work strangely in Parliament." He said, "It's the same as if I had cows, and I'd feed them worse and expect them to give me more milk." It is similar to our economy and our population. We are constantly weakening the conditions for the economy, but we expect the economy to have more impact. He won't. What does my debate refer to? Look, colleagues and colleagues, I am seriously trying very calmly, if you have noticed, and in a rather cultural way to say that let us consider what laws we are adopting. This is in connection with the Minister of Economy. The next week, we have a work inspection law on the agenda. I don't know if you've been paying attention - I'll warn the Minister of Economy right away, I'll send a letter to make sure he's careful. The work inspector will be able to close the company with a decision. Ladies and gentlemen, the effectiveness of the state apparatus does not depend on the sanctions and penalties that the state has the right to apply, but on the logical solutions, except – I have written this down – I have not now taken Mr Gorenak – unless we are approaching Ukraine. I think that with the laws we're making, we're getting closer to Ukraine. And who else will have the company if the inspector gets here – the complaint does not hold back the execution, it will just shut down the company. Then the work inspector should apply 21 laws in his work! Ladies and gentlemen, do you know what we did to this country? Monster! And tell me about an inspector who can use 21 laws. He's not here! Secondly, it would be good to start telling the truth, at least try. Look, it really bothers me that we're saying that, of course, at the Ministry of Economic Affairs, we're going to cut the number of employees by 30%, knowing that we're going to go to government. I guess we're just regrouping, but we're writing in this work inspection law that this inspection is humanely fed and we're just opening up jobs for secondary education. There are probably some members with secondary education and they would need employment in the next term. Ladies and gentlemen, come on, I ask you nicely, when we're adopting laws, let's turn on the brain, not just the finger. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! With each candidate or candidate, I would point out one area, although of course their work area is very broad. With the Minister, who will take over the administration of the Slovenian Government in place and around the world, Mr Gorazd Žmavc, he would expose the continuity. In fact, I think it's good that you continue the work of your predecessors. Here I am thinking of the Bosniak Zhekš Academy, then Minister Ljudmilo Novak and her successor Tina Komel, because it would be right to complete the projects that are already under way at the Slovenian Government Office and around the world, and, of course, that instead of a party-coloured policy in this place, I think this is a highly out-of-the-way area, caring for half a million of our fellow citizens living in the neighbourhood and in the world. With the Ministry of Health, Dr. Alenka Trop Skaza, the Minister would point out the problem of hospital infections. In fact, in our hospitals this is already a very big problem, although certain positive movements have been made. At the annual level, hospital infections cause several times more deaths than at the annual level of traffic accidents, and this is a very worrying information. To limit traffic accidents, we have a strategy, a policy, a resolution and so on at the country level, and only a commission to control hospital infections. An average study on the state of hospital infections in our country, which was carried out at the end of 2011, has not yet been presented to the public today, and I think this needs to be done as soon as possible to see what the actual situation is. With the Minister, who will take over the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, Mr Method Dragonji, who convinced me by his presentation on the Committee and then at the debate we had in the parliamentary group, would point out the concern for the preservation of jobs, which he has also personally taken on at the presentation on the working body, and not only the concern for the consolidation of the banking system and banks, which is the priority of the Minister of Finance, since we have been able to track the two conflicting government policies over the past week. One is the concern for jobs and, on the other hand, the Minister of Finance's statement at the Economic Chamber meeting, where he highlighted the liberalisation of the labour market and announced new unemployed people in our country. Let me say that in December 1993 there were 137 thousand 142 unemployed people, 15.4% and in December 2013 this unemployment rate was 13.5% or 124 thousand 015 unemployed people. This trend of growth has been worrying since 2008 and an end must be made, including by taking care of new jobs and the start-up of the economy. Even in the country, we have adopted the Law on Aid for the Rescue and Restructuring of Economic Companies in Trouble. We also know that the expert inter-ministerial commission for granting State aid to companies in difficulty has already made quite a few decisions and that these decisions stand in peace with the finance minister or minister acting as economic minister, Dr. Chufer. And we can only wait for companies to go bankrupt. Today we have traced the data that it was only January that 143 companies went bankrupt. Just January this year. And I appeal to the Minister of Economy, Method of Dragonjo, to take a thorough look at the companies for which the Inter-Ministerial Commission has already approved the aid, but this aid has not yet been granted. Some of these companies are also from the furniture and wood processing industry, and today, when we have 7 million cubic metres of wood on the ground, we will send these companies to bankruptcy. This would be a crime, and it has to be done. In addition to preserving new jobs, the economy must also be launched, and economic momentum must be ensured. We will certainly be able to launch it with several more infrastructure projects, and I appeal to the Government, the Council of Ministers and the competent ministers to prepare as soon as possible for the start of the construction of hydro power plants in Central Sava. I think this would also encourage economic development in Slovenia and also enable new jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs Ludmila Novak, followed by Dr Ljubica Jelusič and then Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u48	Your Honor, thank you for your word. Mr Dragonja's method had a good presentation because it actually comes from his experience. No one is denying that he has enough knowledge and that he also knows how to act, that there will be some success, that some result will be shown in this area. The question is whether the coalition will let him do what he thinks he has to do, or whether the government will allow him to do what he thinks he has to do. One of my acquaintances, who is employed in public administration, but has been in the economy for a number of years before, always says that everyone who works in public administration should work hard in the economy for the first few years and then see how money is made. I hope that Mr Dragonja's methods will also be able to implement some reforms, changes in this area, so that we will not have so many administrative obstacles to the establishment of businesses, when coming from various investors who give up on our long-term and complex procedures. So I want him to know what he asked. In a year, we will be able to assess whether this has been possible or successful. I often meet entrepreneurs and at recent meetings I found that they are truly sad, concerned about the worse situations and also about the real estate tax when they received their first calculations. Someone said, "I don't know how I can handle it. They say tourism is the future of Slovenia, but they taxed everything on me and on me. How can I continue to travel?" On the one hand, we know where our options are, and on the other hand, we tax this to infinity. For the health sector, the Minister will also have a very difficult and difficult job. I don't think it's necessary, or it would be totally inappropriate, to talk about any extra taxes and irritations, because from behind I hear incredible stories about how networks and lobbying in the field of drug sales are intertwined. And here it is not important to left or right, because those who love money do not care whether it comes from the left pocket or from the right hand or gives left or right hand, but the fact is that these lobbies are intertwined, otherwise they would not survive all governments, and the minister will have a hard job. As far as the Minister for Slovenians is concerned, both in his place and in the world, I must say that I am sad and concerned, because the party she has proposed has the basic principle of proposing that DeSUS should have one more vote in the government. If this is the right starting point, then this is a sad starting point. At the very hearing of the candidate for minister, I have found that he has knowledge, experience in the field of economics, but he does not know exactly whether he is Minister for Foreigners or Minister for Slovenians. And I think that this area is also constantly dwindling. The Minister for Slovenians, I think, must be a person who will want some confidence in our Slovenians, both in the neighbourhood, in minorities and in the world, because we know that they are people with difficult life experiences; also because of this, many have had to go around the world. And if in advance the attitude of a party, some government is so extreme to them, I don't know how to say it, not exactly exciting, then it's not a good journey for the future. We talk a lot about left, right media, left, right government and so on. I need neither left media nor right media alone, but those who report objectively, honestly and with good intentions. And I think the Slovenians need us for a future coalition of honesty and truth.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Dr. Ljubica Jelusic has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u50	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Nice hello to you all! Today's debate, at a point addressed by the List of Candidates and Candidates for Minister and Minister of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, has served, as has been the case so far, with discussions on many different things, on the coalition agreement, on the electoral system, on the report of investigative commissions and much more. At one point, however, I would also agree that it might be possible to consider the rules of procedure, particularly the part that speaks about the visibility of candidates and candidates for ministers. I think it would be right if they were here with us, but I don't agree with those who think it's unknown people. Perhaps they are unknown to some of us here, who have not or have not participated in the works of working bodies or are not from any particular environment or from some particular profession in which these candidates operate, which does not mean that other people and the Slovenian public do not know them very well. I can certainly say that in today's three candidates or candidates and at least two candidates, at least one can be said to be widely known in the Slovenian public, and I am referring to the Minister of Economics, Mr Method Draganjo. I would also, like my colleague Sam Bevk, in front of me for each of the areas, or for all three ministers, comment or point out some of the essential problems, pointing to some of the key points in his example. When it comes to the functioning of the future Minister for Slovenians in place and throughout the world of Mr Gorazd Žmavc, I would say that it is very important to continue with the continuity or to care for the continuity of the good works of all the current ministers without a ticket for this area, both Dr Žekš, Mrs Ludmila Novak and Mrs Tina Komel, although in the end she did not have enough time to show her entire programme or attitude towards this area. However, I think that in the work she was doing, she was doing quite fair work or working in the field of relations with the Slovenian national community in neighbouring countries and around the world. In this area, I would like to draw attention to the fact that our Slovenians around the world are an important group of people who may be minorities in their countries, but are extremely influential in many countries and are a bridge between the country they live in and our country. I have had and have had the opportunity to monitor the work of our natives in Italy, and I know with what kind of barbecue, creativity and energy they think about their country of origin and how much they want our country to go as well as possible. At the same time, I know Slovenians around the world who, for example, at the time of their independence, were regarded as key lobbyists who were concerned that their countries were quite early, probably more early than they would have recognised our country. It is therefore important that the Minister for Slovenians, in place and around the world, truly understands their important cultural and political role and that he does not see them as just some economic entity in relations between our country and neighbouring countries or countries around the world. I also hope that our new Minister, Gorazd Žmavc, will observe the difference or look after such lapsas as he did at the presentation when he spoke of our foreigners. In short, such words are important despite the fact that a person is upset about such a situation, but it is important to keep an eye on it. I wish him to be successful, as he has been in his careers so far, either in the field of economics or in the field of local self-government, quite successful, and to be successful in this new area that he is waiting for. As for the activities that await our candidate for Minister of Health, this is prim. Dr. Alenka Trop Skaza, I think this is a very determined and fair candidate who will have a lot of important responsibilities. Of course, we also have very high expectations, especially when it comes to the issue of preserving and determining rights from public health. Of course, in our client, we also agree with her when she predicts the abolition of supplementary insurance. We, too, believe that this is the right measure and that it is necessary to switch to uniform compulsory insurance. In view of the fact that she is an expert on communicable diseases, she would also be advised or expected to be treated with all measures and capabilities to address one of the worst communicable diseases in the health sector, that is, corruption, in particular corruption in public procurement. We will help her with all our knowledge and, of course, with our full support. The candidate for the economic sector, for economic development and technology, Mr Dragonja Methods, is, as has been said many times today, quite well known to both the Slovenian public and the world as well as to Slovenian politics, if we are more specific. In today's debates, as well as in the report of the Committee on which he presented himself, several of the various things he spoke about were mentioned and written down, and one area of this report and also today's debate has not yet fully elaborated, as the candidate also spoke about measures to help companies in difficulty. And its interpretation or its assessment of this area has been very useful to me or I have estimated that its attitude towards the problems of these companies or companies, for which we have already amended the law twice in this mandate, is very positive because it considers that such companies must be restructured both financially and businessally. It seemed important to me that he stressed the business restructuring of these companies, but he also stressed the need to help them, of course, so as to preserve the healthy core of these companies and, of course, to preserve jobs. It has also been mentioned several times today, and it has raised quite a number of comments in the public, its personal recommendation or warning that it will reduce the number of employees in its department by 30% within a period of one year. I would like to point out that he did not talk about this number being reduced because of that part of the Ministry of Economy that is moving to the office of the President of the Government, but he had in mind or spoke, also publicly, that he intends or wants that in his department, which would, of course, be very good for the entire state administration, to be cleansed. He said he wanted to see a fresh wind in the state administration, and I think that this is a discussion that would show support not only within the government, within the framework of the state administration or the executive branch, but should also be supported here, on our side, so in the legislative branch of government. What happened last time, I can say, for at least a decade in the state administration, is the ageing of this state administration. Young people with new skills, new experiences and knowledge, more and more rigidity, more resistance to good work with customers, which certainly needs to be changed. If the Minister of Methods of Dragonja among the first to make such order in the field of his ministry, we will be very happy and, above all, we will be very supportive of him. If I conclude, I will support the candidate for Minister of Health and the candidate for economic development and technology and the candidate for Minister for Slovenians in place and around the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor. Mr Srečko Meh, Mrs Maša Kociper and Mrs Sonja Ramšak are preparing for him.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. First of all, I must say that, as a Member and citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, I am extremely sad and disappointed that, at this time, we have the President of the Government, who is disassociating Slovenian policy, who in his speeches condemns the parties in the National Assembly, rather than doing what is most important and crucial at this time: bringing together politics, linking politics and doing everything that is crucial to pull the Slovenian country out of this extreme and very difficult economic and social situation. Mrs Bratušek is constantly allowing herself to attack the Slovenian Democratic Party, to condemn her as the main culprit for everything that has happened in this Slovenia, and I think that this is what does not affect any President or Prime Minister, but at least in this given situation. I am also personally convinced that in the Slovenian Democratic Party at this time, since Slovenia has been independent and since the existence of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have made a great deal of effort and have helped to propose and adopt many quality and good solutions. I never claimed and did not say that all solutions were always the best, but I am sure they were in good faith and for the good of Slovenia. Now, I have some arguments to make, or to object to, some claims made by the President of the Government. It is sad that I have to do this, but it seems fair and fair to pour pure wine to the Slovenian people, the Slovenian people, their people. I will only give a few arguments, especially because, among other things, the President of the Government has said that this government is establishing healthier foundations on which we can build a better Slovenia. It's just an illustration. In 2008, when Janez Janša's four-year reign was completed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, public debt in gross social product was 22%. This means public debt in billions of EUR 8 billion 180 million. In 2011, when the country's leadership of the Pahor government was completed, the public debt was already 47.1% and 17 billion 0.16 thousand euros. And now that we have been leading the government of Alenka Bratušek in 2014 and for more than a year now, we have landed at 75% of the public debt in GDP or between 25 and 26 billion public debt. Is there anyone else in the National Assembly who can condemn the Slovenian Democratic Party and Janez Janša for this? Is anyone here? He will probably have to go where those who get to know him on certain things will be able to explain correctly what those true arguments are and who do not. Here I have said many extremely concrete and qualitative arguments. I'm on it. In 2008, when the Janševa government completed its leadership, there were between 57 and 60 thousand unemployed. In 2011, when the ruling of its government by the Social Democratic Government with Borut Pahor led, 111 thousand were already unemployed! And now, ladies and gentlemen, under the leadership of Alenka Bratusek, we have 130 thousand unemployed! I ask you once again, is this the government that says that this government creates healthier foundations on which we can build a better Slovenia? Is this a better Slovenia, or is this team after all that I have just said, the one that creates the conditions for a better Slovenia? Among other things, I will make the following arguments. This government has so far adopted a whole set of taxes in its activities, including the value added tax, the property tax, which is a complete disaster. Now go among the Slovenian people, among the people, to the countryside, the periphery, and you will see what people will tell you, what pensioners will tell you, what those who pay 500, 600, 700 euros will tell you, what craftsmen, entrepreneurs, businesses and so on will tell you. Go and see what this government has done with this tax! Amazingly, then, how does the President of the Government allow himself to talk about better foundations for a better Slovenia! Let's keep going. It also eliminates coordination with inflation in the amounts of tax reliefs and tax bases on the income scale. Let's not talk about taxis. The fees have increased, the increase in registrations for passenger and motor vehicles, the promotion of vignettes, the energy card, the increase in excise duties, so that we do not then talk about all the penalties that have been raised so far. Among other things, penalties for offences are imposed in any law which also regulates the area of offences. The introduction of transport vehicles and penalties for transport without carriers and so on and so on and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, this time I hope and seriously warn the entire Slovenian public and every Slovenian and Slovenian citizen in this country that the government of Alenka Bratušek is misleading the Slovenian public with its discussions. And I very much ask that the Slovenians and Slovenians begin to listen to the arguments that are said here, which are 100 per cent standing, that no one can challenge them, and that by no means is the government of Janez Janša responsible for the situation in this country, is not the responsible Janez Janša and is not the responsible Slovenian Democratic Party, but is the far most responsible coalition at this time and is the government of Alenka Bratušek, its incompetence, increditability, bad work and no responsibility to its citizens and citizens. Because if there were such a thing, such a solution, such a change and such nonsense as this government is doing, I wouldn't do it. That this is our Republic of Slovenia leading to total ruin. And to the end. All in this country — I have said the following a hundred times. If we do not reduce public and state spending on the one hand and on the other hand the money that comes and is borrowed from us invests in economic development and new jobs, we have no option and Slovenia will go from day to day to higher and higher depth. For God's sake, whether you're not coalition MPs and MPs that are so normal and wise, I apologize for the normal expression, I apologize, so wise that you know we can't spend 30 or 40% more than we're producing, and we're borrowing that money that we're going to have to borrow with interest. How can you miss this? I pray you to God! Let us for once put an end to this foolishness that leads to the truth of every individual, to the smallest one, to the greatest one, except those privileged, thieves, robbers and so on. It's taking us all to ruin! All of us sitting here, too. I don't have the property to live for the next 100 years or the next 20 years as long as I have left. I don't have it because I've worked my whole life honestly, responsible to each individual, to every Slovenian in this society. And if everyone were to do that, then everyone would be fighting for this Slovenia to be better and more beautiful. And in order for everyone to invest everything in our power to pull this Slovenia out of the mud, because we also depend on how this country works. And we cannot afford to talk – among other things, I listen to the client of the pensioners and Mr Erjavac when he keeps saying that nothing has been taken from the pensioners. What about those taxes and all that? What about those taxes? Now, if a pensioner has 500 or 400 euros, and if we add up to a month, the pension will definitely go down by 100 euros. He's only got 300 left because he has to pay more electricity, so much more expensive to pay in the store, all that he's buying, and so on, and now the real estate tax is on it, and so on. How can you mislead the Slovenian public, all these structures, not to mention entrepreneurs, craftsmen and all those who create so that even this huge state and public apparatus can be maintained? Finally, we do not want to make a key decision just to support our electoral body, which is in the long term harmful to the future of this country – this is done by this left, this left coalition, and it will not reach where it absolutely needs to be cut! We're gonna have to cut into the public sector and spend too much public money! We'll have to! Because we're not capable of creating as much as we use. However, if this government were so capable, and if the coalition were to now reduce my unemployment to 30 or 40 thousand and create 100,000 new jobs, this public sector could function without a hitch. No problem, do it! Prove you're capable, I'll do my best to help, but I know you're not capable of destroying this country from day to day, from minute to minute! And that is why I cannot support such candidates in such a government, and of course not such a government, but at least Alenka Bratusek, who is always saying how we need to join forces, how we need to help each other, and ultimately she is the one behind this counter within the National Assembly who is pushing the parties, and most of all through the Slovenian Democratic Party, and she is breaking political unity in this national assembly! We Members and Members are trying to connect to each other in order to move forward in the direction that this Slovenia deserves, and the President of the Government is doing the opposite, and that is what is unacceptable to everyone who sits in this national assembly. And that is true, not only is it unacceptable, but it is irresponsible and extremely harmful for our citizens and citizens or our people!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u53	Mr. Happy Meh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u54	Do I have to do this right now? Ladies and gentlemen, look, it goes, of course, to the Vice-President, that Mr Pojbič speaks, whether we are normal. It doesn't belong in the dictionary, and it's not right. I think so, too. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u55	He apologized, so I didn't warn him.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u56	But still, that's not the point. I think we're all normal here, with different views. If you listened to Mr Pojbič, who spoke as a member of the SDS, he spoke about the need to reduce public spending, the public sector. Ladies and gentlemen, citizens and citizens, listen to what they are saying about the need to be done here to get out of the crisis. Forgiveness — that is actually what needs to be done. Of course I don't agree with that. Look, today we're talking about the minister and the two ministers, and all three of them have received a lot of support on the parental boards, so much support that today we can accept them, confirm them, and answer all the questions raised at the time. Today, however, there are many questions, such claims and stories that are essentially about the work of the Government, the interpretation of the government, ministers and all that. And we're talking about three ministers. We've been saying for three months that there are no ministers, and now that they are, it's not working again. But I want to say something anyway, what I heard in the debate here today. In view of the fact that the government of Janez Janša has adopted a pension reform, there is a great deal of confusion, since it was precisely the SDS that prevented a change in pension reform when it would still be the right time to do so. And in this pension reform, we also participated in all those who thought we could do something. Today's talk was about making standards and standards in the health field. If we adopt standards and standards without anything else, we immediately determine what superstandard programs are. And when we did that, we put one group of people in an extremely desperate position, even though we don't do another thing we have to do here, a reform, a real reform, for which we need to have a health development strategy, and on the basis of this, a reform that could be done in the field of health. I fully agree with what Mr Bogovic said. I think that we could lead the debate this way and perhaps come to a better conclusion. However, let me say something about the sale of state property and the fact that state-owned owners are bad operators. What else are we selling in Slovenia today? What are we selling? Apart from banks, we sell state companies that are in good condition: Gorenje, Luka Koper, Elektro, HSE, GEN gas, ELES, Electrical distribution, Krka, Triglav, air carriers, heat, can utility, Petrol, Telekom, Mobile, Post. These are companies run by the state, and we're saying we're bad managers. Then people really think we're bad managers. However, I think that these are the companies that we can proudly say are state-owned companies. Among other things, Jože Tanko said on behalf of the SDS that protests had ended when left extremists or protestors had ended that conclusion at that time, so there were no more protests. I protest because we have a committee to oversee security intelligence services and a commission to investigate extremists, and I am sure that Jože Tanko must know that Dragutin Mate told him that all the responsible people in this country who are involved, from intelligence services to the police, have said that it is not possible to say that we have organized extremist groups here, that we can talk about left-wing extremism, but there is almost no way that we can talk about Islamic extremism – we have already talked about this – but that in Slovenia there are quite a few right-wing extremist people who are engaged who are organised. This is the conclusion of the commission and the committee. I would also like to say that today someone has said that fighting pensions are unjustifiable, that some receive unjustifiable fighting pensions. Which ones are they? Under what legislation have they been adopted? Who can change the legislation that has been obtained, who is the one who can do it? That is why I think, ladies and gentlemen, that we need to speak wisely enough here today and also in a sufficiently organised manner. In fact, I would like to say that what the President of the Government said about the economic breakthrough, about what the trend is. She didn't say anything but what it was like in 2012, 2013 and where we are today. That's all she talked about. And instead of being happy and proud that that's true, we're angry that that's not true. I wish, of course, that this breakthrough would go on and that we would be on the other side where everyone is actually glad to be. Now another such statement that I thought was – that the Titanic was made by professionals, which I think was very good, and this was equal to Mrs Alenka Bratusek. I'm glad there are professionals in this government who know that. Of course, I can also draw a comparison to the fact that Noah’s ark was built by amateurs. You know who's anti-government. The amateurs built it? I don't agree, I don't think so. And maybe this; we're saying again and again that the uncles belong somewhere in the background, but it only fits right now, during this government period. Did the government of Janez Janša fail? Were they replaced? Was there anything else that was done? It seems important to me that we do not throw away guilt, whether it was John or Alice or anyone. It is important that we have made mistakes, that a lot has been done wrong and that today, at this point, when we appoint a minister and two ministers, we can agree that we will not be very critical of everything that is wrong, except when this is the agenda item. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič asked for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u58	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Of course, I have to replicate my colleague Meh because I think he misunderstood me. When I talked about reducing public spending in the public and public sectors, I talked about what is, in any case, and we all know exactly, the possible better organisation of this public sector is possible. And there's a lot of spares here. I also think that we can improve public procurement, and there are huge reserves in the background in public procurement. I think that when Mr Meh tried to call on the Slovenian public that I am talking about the need to forgive on the average – I think this is a complete lie and a complete fiction. It is true, however, that perhaps due to rationalisation, and so on, there will also be fewer jobs in the state and public administration. That could happen. No government in Slovenia will be able to overlook this in the next 20 years, because simply the real sector, those who create, does not create enough to consume 30% more than they create! This must be clear to everyone and no one will be able to do it, but it can be a golden government, such a government, red, yellow, yellow, whatever! And let's not be fooled! Let's not let ourselves lie before we make the right move, it'll be easier for us and it'll be faster. And another thing Mr Meh has been talking about is that in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are the ones who have broken the pension reform – Mr Meh, it would be right for you to clear up this issue in your party and find out who is the one who has put forward the referendum initiative that they were social partners, mainly unions, those who are now completely silent, which are nowhere to be found, when we have 130 000 unemployed and so on. Where are these unions now?Oh, my God! Where?Oh, my God! Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u59	Mrs. Masha Kociper has the floor. For her prepare Mrs Sonja Ramšak, then Mag. Majda Potrate, Mr. Janez Ribič and Mr. Branko Ficko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I must admit, at the beginning of this session, I, too, had no intention of taking my word for it. Today is supposed to be some festive moment for the appointment of three new ministers. This is the mandate each government has to appoint its own team to perfect its team and work on its own program. But as at so many extraordinary meetings, emergency meetings of committees, interpretations and any other options, of course today's meeting takes place in an old manner. Here on the left we hear the obvious, the discrediting of the government's work, the discrediting of the work of the President of the Government, the insults at the expense of the coalition, the teaching of what we should do to come to our senses and so on, and it seems to me that every one of us has to be so advertised and told the other side of the matter. In fact, as I often say, this government had the opportunity a year ago to do all this and more, and it had the opportunity several years ago to lead our country. It's a shame they didn't do all this and more to make the country in a better situation than it is today. Unfortunately, our government did not receive this mandate until a bad year ago, and there is no doubt that it did a great deal at that time, if that still hurts. And it doesn't make any sense to debate, insult, discredit and fabricate facts all over again. All we talked about was numbers and facts. The fact is, on the road, there are no more demonstrators on the streets, the fact is that social and other partners are calm in the sense that they have been brought to some dialogue, that they can participate in this dialogue and that they do not feel the need to express their opinions in other ways, even though they are not always fully satisfied, which they certainly are not, because no one is. The facts are the figures discussed by the President of the Government: minus 0.4% of GDP at the end of your government's rule, and now, after less than one year, minus 0.6, a great improvement in foreign investment, good conditions for growth of the economy, for which the pre-condition was the rehabilitation of the financial system; this had to be done. And it's strange that you're telling us that we've continued with the bad bank project. Why are you reading this to us? Each normal government had to continue to launch a project in a situation in which the country was in which it was in a position to start a project, but not to start a new one and then continue to waste time in this area. We have listened to it so much, and please give us the opportunity to work in peace. As you can see, the results have already shown that unemployment is on the rise, but it has already been said several times by experts that unemployment is the indicator that is turning very slowly and only when companies start to recover and when economic growth begins will slowly start, hopefully as soon as possible, it also points to unemployment. But I would still answer a few specific points. All day long I have been listening to your observations about the coalition treaty, how there is nothing in it, how there is no assurance, no reform, none of what you think is necessary, no rationalisation of public sectors and so on. Yes, dear colleagues, it is our coalition agreement or, as we have called it, a coalition agreement. And as you yourself find, it is a minimum compromise of four very programmed different parties, so it is called an agreement. I don't know how things work in your world, but in our democratic world, each party will sign what they can sign and what makes sense to it. I allow the possibility that somewhere else someone will determine what will happen, and then everyone else will sign. It's different with us. It's a minimum deal. This, of course, does not mean that it is not possible to do anything more or beyond this, but if we did all that is here, our country would be on a very good path. And that's why it's a minimum compromise, and that's the only one in a democratic country where the government is made up of coalition parties. You're picking up coalition issues. That there are problems is true. As far as I know, there is also a theory about this, and even more so is the practice – everywhere in the world where coalition governments are, there are also problems among coalition partners. That's just the kind of electoral system. The coalition government, made up of a proportional electoral system, is seen as the world's most democratic way of turning citizens' will into a representative body. However, if this means in certain cases of a coalition, this coalition must be negotiated. And that's exactly what this coalition does, and these deals are sometimes very difficult and difficult for all of us. To the obvious that we haven't had any new ministers in three months, I can answer that you're partly right, but it was also part of the coalition negotiations. One of the parties, the party DeSUS, simply requested that the ministers not be appointed until an agreement on the coalition agreement was reached and the distribution of the resources was reached. At that time, the Prime Minister of the Government was unable to appoint ministers against the will of one coalition partner, so things were going on in the coalition deal, otherwise she would not have the support of one of the partners. I must say that even in Positive Slovenia, we were not too excited about such conditionalities, even because it was not clear to us to the end whether we, as the largest and most responsible party, were looking for a candidate for a health resort or not, and we were waiting until the end for the candidate for this resort to be proposed by that party who, after the initial distribution, belonged to that party. If I'd known earlier that this department was ours, we'd have a minister long ago, don't worry. It was only after this city was relaxed that we had the opportunity to propose to our candidate, and so there was some delay, of course we are partly responsible for, but all of this can be improved if this candidate is really doing well, quickly and responsibly. Of course we hope so. In order to get this resource, we had to agree to another, you said, blackmail – to leave one of the Resor to the party DeSUS. That's true, too. And if I speak for myself, I find that unacceptable. If one of the clients doesn't find the candidate for the facility that belongs to her, then let him leave this facility. I speak for myself. But as I have remembered many times in this room, and this seems to me the most true of all about politics: politics is the art of possible, politics is a compromise on compromise, of course to the limit, when everyone can agree to this compromise in person. In this particular case, it was not questionable for me and, apparently, for my client as well – whether we should finally hand over the department of foreigners around the world to obtain a health sector that is key to implementing health reforms. This compromise is a compromise that I could easily accept. The positive Slovenia is aware that maintaining public health and early action in this area are key to the success of the whole government. And since we are the largest party in this government, we bear the highest responsibility for the functioning of this government, and therefore it makes sense that we are also responsible for the operation of this department. Whoever remembers, at the beginning of this coalition's work, we have expressed our concern at the work of Minister Gantar, but at the time, the coalition partner insisted that Minister Gantar would continue. Now we will respectfully take over this area and try to make a lot of things in the health field recover. If DeSUS has decided that its powers are foreign policy and foreign policy throughout the world, this is their right. As I say, this compromise is acceptable to me, and we will be happy to start work on this issue as soon as possible if today's candidates are confirmed. Just a word about the candidates. They were presented on committees, presented by our group leader here today. I think this is about respect for worthy, credible candidates in all three areas, so I wouldn't lose my word on this. I'd also like to say something on the subject of searching for candidates. And here's the truth that candidates are always harder to get, and that's true. And here, those of you who find it, even ask yourself where your responsibility is. Why do intelligent, capable people increasingly find it difficult to enter politics? Because they are immediately under the worst possible attack of discredit on all sides because they immediately appear in at least two newspapers some stories about them and their families, because they look forward to their lives and back to their pants and more, and because they know that they will work under great pressure very hard for very little money. And they won't get any respect for it. On the contrary, since they became politicians by entering this post, they have become the worst that you can really be in this country. So at one point we will have to ask ourselves in this country whether we are any democratic democracy that has its representatives, including political representatives, Members, Ministers and so on, and if we, how do we treat these representatives, how do we have a relationship with them, all of this in order to lead the country by capable people, not those who will not be left with anything else. So I hope that today we have completed one period, that today we will confirm three very good candidates for ministers and that in the coalition government with many compromises, problems, but successfully, we will continue our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mrs Sonja Ramshak has the floor. She's got the mags ready for her. Majda Potrat and behind her, Mr. Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Emissary colleagues and colleagues! It's kind of scary today in this Chamber, when we heard on this side, mainly by the Slovenian Democratic Party, so many views of the Prime Minister of the government, how the government of Janez Janša destroyed Slovenia and so on. She gave some figures, including Mrs Kociper, who is now leaving the hall, but I must say that these numbers are extremely verifiable Some have already been mentioned by my fellow Members, including Marian Pojbič in front of me. It is sad, and I can agree, of course, with the President of the Government, that Slovenia is now in a much better position than it was a year ago. This is what she said at the time of the signing of the Coalition Treaty. True, but we are richer for eight Olympic medals, two golds, two silver and four bronzes, and we are also richer for the fact that many in the world today no longer replace us with Slovakia, but to know where and who Slovenia is, and that our athletes have probably done more to develop tourism than many ministers in any government so far. I will not argue with my fellow Members, but I will focus on the discussions on the ministerial candidates who presented themselves on the home committees. I don't think it's worth losing words about Mr Zmavc, because he himself said that the work he would do at the wish of his friend, Karl Erjavac, he doesn't even dream. It grieves me that you are supporting the coalition ambassadors and Members of Parliament, who does not even know what his job is or who, when he is to take over the department for our foreigners and for the Slovenians around the world, speaks of foreigners. It's just a sad picture. But we're moving on. I believe that we could still have such good candidates for ministers today, but we could not fulfill what we would like, and this is actually to make a move in our areas. Why? Because everything they represented on the parental boards is not in the coalition contract. And as Mrs Maša Kociper said, you have reached some minimum in the coalition treaty, which does not make any significant progress for Slovenia in order to finally come out of this economic, financial and social crisis. And when Minister Dragonja says that there will be a 30% reduction in the number of employees in the ministry, he probably also meant that when a government service is set up to deal with cohesion funds, a number of people will go there, but if he really thought about forgiving, which I doubt of course, he will run into very serious obstacles, because you do not have it in the coalition contract, you are saying that there should be no forgiveness in the public administration and that there should be no debt and new taxes and contributions to what is saving Slovenia. Of course, we on this side, and especially in the Slovenian Democratic Party, do not agree and we cannot agree. And when you say that the government of Janez Janša in one year of its reign, in 2012, did not make any fundamental changes – I think these radical movements were extremely clear, much has already been mentioned. And I'm just going to give you one piece of information, that's the budget deficit as a percentage of the social gross product. When we taught leadership, this was, of course, 4%, while today, when we speak in February 2014, this is already 15%. And more than that, what the first of the ministers said in this Chamber today is very sad. But if I turned to the health department, I'd say so. Yes, the future minister has been extremely skillful in avoiding the word reform. Why? Of course, health reform will not be due to the fact that you did not agree on this in the coalition. It's sad, Minister Gantar was Minister of Health for two years, but he didn't do anything. That's what we read to him when he was in our government. It is sad that even in these two years, when we have a new minister, the Minister does not predict the reform of health that is absolutely necessary. In other words, it speaks of some general statistics, mentions a few measures, and this is especially what our citizens have remembered that they should pay for each recipe for an additional euro. But to tell you why citizens are using more and more medicines, why we have more and more people in the hospital, or why more people are looking for psychiatric help – because they do not have jobs, because the social state does not work, and here are, ladies and gentlemen, those tasks that await us. Not that you're introducing new taxes, new contributions, new excise duties, and I don't know what else. And I must say that she did not convince me in her speech on the working body and also after examining the recording magnetogram, because she did not in any way specify in any specific way what she would do in a particular area, when she would do it, and what it would do for the benefit of citizens and citizens. I'm sorry. I'll finish at this stage. Unfortunately for me, such ministers and the government cannot be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mag. Maja Potrat, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I will only touch the work of the two ministers, first of all very briefly, Minister of Health. I expect it to focus in particular on women's health. I am thinking in particular about women's reproductive health, because we have recently followed trends that some things belonging to this area should also be paid out of their own pocket. This is, of course, of exceptional importance for this area, just as all preventive screening programmes of any cancer are important, and for my area I can say that in Maribor the mammography programme has not been reviewed for a long time. I expect that these matters, in particular in those parts of the country where the average or expected life expectancy is already one way or another, will be carried out in a qualitative manner. I want everything good for her in her work, she has enough energy, especially a lot of sightseeing, and I hope that her research activity will also help her to take real data into account, which is certainly not a good thing for some people. We had heard a lot about taxes before, and what do I know about what else, but let me just remind you: The Energy Act of 2006 — Who was the Prime Minister of the government back then? – introduced an energy card, about which there is now so much talk. The list of properties was introduced by law by Mr. Janez Podobnik and the valuation of properties by Dr. Andrej Bajuk. What government were these two ministers from? And also a quality census was designed at the time. So if we're going to go blind, then we need to have some real data in front of our eyes. As far as energy cards are concerned, perhaps only this information is interesting. According to Gursa, 2 000 252 old apartments were sold in the first half of 2013, and only these apartments, old apartments, will have to have an energy card if the law announces. In 2012, there were 5 thousand 517 such apartments. Now, figure out how much we're going to cost a referendum on archives. So much for throwing money out the window. When I listened to the nomination for Minister of Economy, I must say that I was particularly attracted to the reality and calm with which some of his priorities were announced by Mr Dragonja Method. And this restraint that I'm talking about has involved such privatisation – not privatisation for any price and everything, but smart privatisation, which will also bring relevant effects. He drew attention to another very interesting thing that I often don't hear — that we should also have strong economic operators, large economic operators. Because he was known as a man who worked in Lek, I cannot imagine for the pharmaceutical industry that the pharmaceutical industry would not build on development and research units. That is why I understood him quite differently from one of the Members when he spoke about the effectiveness of the Slovenian higher education system. He talked about the duration of the study, not about how much the percentage of highly educated people should be. Because some people like to refer only to their social contacts, but not to statistics – unfortunately it is a 2010 data, but it is from a 2013 publication and there is no new data. This is an average of 27 members of the European Union. I have to say, for example, if we look in the direction, by the percentage of students, we have a lower percentage in humanistic – 12.2, we have only 8.3. Social, social sciences, law and the like: 37.5 European average, but this is actually lower, 34. But in technical, engineering professions we have 18.9% of students, European average [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] It just shows how many things we say in our mind without knowing the real statistics, and we need to build on them. I also want a good job with the Dragoni method. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Ribič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. Given that I have only one minute to discuss, first of all, ministers who are to be voted today would like a lot of wisdom in managing and resolving problems in their ministries, so that they do not come to the National Assembly one year from now, and as President of the Government has said today, it is better and better this year than it was a year ago. However, the arguments were, of course, that this government was better indebted than the previous government. Oh, poor country, what government presidents run it! The Minister of Finance also said that we are halfway out of the crisis. I don't know if now it's half the way he's put us in charge of a few billion. There's no need to feel any other action. One becomes afraid of where we're sinking, and we've waited so long, three months, for this moment to strengthen the government. There was also, I would say, a lot of tacturing of individual customers, and I am concerned that the party's most tactful – if our economy collapses, we will not have any more money for our pensions. That's why I'd expect more.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Ficko has the floor, followed by Mr Brane Golubovic and Mrs Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! Minister of Economy, Mr Dragonja – this is of course an experienced economist and diplomat, of course also with an appropriate vision, as far as the market economy is concerned. The question is, of course, whether he will have sufficient support and strength to implement. That is why, of course, I expect the President of the Government, in addition to covering the Ministry of Field Affairs, to give him the appropriate powers and power, of course, to be responsible for the economy and to have such status in the Government, at least of course, that the Vice-President of the Government, of course, will be responsible for the economy or the Committee on the Economy, and that the level-level class will have at least as a finance minister and will have an implementation impact on the rest of the ministries, which, of course, affect the economy and economic development, in particular as regards infrastructure projects, the wood-processing industry, including the food processing industry, and especially the rigid labour market and workload. Of course, it should continue to have an impact on cohesion funds. One, of course, is the governance body that is being transferred to the government; the other, of course, is still a substantive division of programmes, which has proved to be a failure in the past to draw on European funds, so that we are not, of course, talking about dividing into municipalities and not the province primarily with the objective of regional projects. Above all, there will be no allocation of funds and adaptation of calls to the rich, but to projects that will give us jobs. Its objective is positive, the reduction in the number of workers in its Ministry of Field Affairs by a target of 30%. This should, of course, be an example for all other ministries, where I think the situation is even worse. Of course, it could have started with Spirit, an agency created by the previous government, which proved to be inefficiently user-friendly, especially negative, as far as tourism is concerned or the previous WTO. At the same time, of course, the Directorate of Tourism remained as a kind of creation for itself, so that the objective must be here, of course, that the WTO should be as independent as it has been in the past. Of course, we are not talking about the adaptation of Spirit's tendering conditions, not the economic spheres with the objective of jobs, but for the benefit of school and research agencies. The biggest task, of course, will be the restructuring of the economy, which dies excessively on meals. The fact is that the DUTB set up under the previous government is not yet ready to restructure businesses, companies which, of course, were in charge of non-profit projects between 2005 and 2010, and are now, of course, overindebted at least EUR 5 billion. DutB, of course, spent a year on advisory contracts, spent a lot of money on it, but did not at the same time set guidelines and instruments for efficient business recovery. Next we have banks that are, of course, recapitalised and trained, still waiting and sleeping. They are waiting for some policy impact on the financing of the economy, although there is a second part of the legal options, insolvency legislation, the possibility of banks entering the ownership of businesses. It seems like the banks are not interested in corporate governance, if that's not their basic function. So that, of course, the new Minister of Economic Affairs will also need additional activity at this coordination of the Bank-DUTB-enterprises, together with the Finance Minister, of course. However, it is likely that the creation of specific dedicated companies at the level of individual activities will need to be complemented. As far as the bank is concerned, Minister Dragonja advocates for local construction workers, and so is the case. On the other hand, NLB has decided that construction, activities with the greatest multiplier effects, will no longer be serviced and, of course, an appropriate change will be needed in this area. So, of course, the Minister of Economic Affairs is waiting for a lot of work and activities, not so much within his department, as it relates to the reduction of the number of workers, but mainly about banks, the DUTB, and, of course, he must be given additional powers here. Otherwise, of course, his views and visions will not produce results. Perhaps the new Slovenian troika Alenka Bratušek, Dragonja Methods and Alenka Trop Skaza will now take place. Let's be surprised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u69	Thank you very much. There have been some cancellations in the middle, so it is now Mr Franc Jurša's turn, followed by Mrs Alenka Jeraj and followed by Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! When we talk about a ministerial team, we like to stress, as a whole, that we have proposals from the opposition for interpretations that a certain minister should be removed from the Minister because they make certain mistakes. The results are often rejected and sometimes interpolation occurs. When we have a perfect ministerial team, we do this when we lack ministers for such or other reasons, but of course we are talking about why the ministerial posts are not occupied. This is mainly said by those who are then in opposition, and in a short period of two years, we can track both from this side, which is now in the government or from this coalition and, of course, the previous coalition when it was in the government. One and the same is often repeated. However, it is very important for the state and for citizens and citizens to have in all ministerial cities such people working in the interests of the state and, of course, the well-being of the people living in that country. After a few months of not being concrete, the President proposed the completion of the vacancies of ministers and ministers, and I think that, after a thorough assessment, she has decided to make arrangements within the coalition government for the names given to us today at the table. If I generally assess, I can personally say that the candidate proposed for the economy, Mr Dragonja, is probably a very suitable candidate with long experience in politics and also with years of experience in the most important economic places that he has performed both in Slovenia and abroad. I personally trust Mr Dragoni on the basis of the programme he has drawn up, and I am sure that he will perform this task well. On the other hand, if I assess the proposed candidate for the Minister of Health, the area of health, I must say that she will face a lot of problems and I wish her to be successful in solving these problems, those to which our former Minister of Health, Mr Gantar, also points. I'm sorry about Mr Zmavc and some of the assessments I won't have a chance to talk to you anymore, but I didn't judge properly, so maybe I should start with him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. The fact is, if Janša’s government were as important a department as health and economy, empty for three months, journalists would go around the government daily and ask him to tell us when ministers, where ministers, would rule an emergency, talk about the government crisis and call the government to resign if they were unable to regulate things, they would have people on the road. Of course, this is not because we have such a well-balanced media space, which I think is also quite responsible for the situation we are in. If journalists were as critical as they were a year and a half ago, or two years ago, even before this government, there would have been much less wrong steps and much less wrong measures that the government could have taken than it had succeeded. All that says is that we do not have a right diary in Slovenia. We're the only ones in Europe who work that way and keep our eyes closed that things are okay. The second problem is the judiciary. If we were to condemn the first person who did not pay his subcontractors who cheated on his subcontractors and punished him, prevent him from setting up ten more businesses and bringing around another hundred people, things would be different. Today, this court produced Mrs Dimic's 11 000 euro discharge. A while ago, we saw that Mr Kramar would get quite a sum. In short, things work completely wrong, but of course for smaller offences we turn on all the apparatus, criminals and everyone works to then, for example, Mr Bezovar, the former director or chief inspector, measure the penalty of 50 euros or something like that. And everyone's been dealing with it for months. In short, a lot of things are wrong and on your head. And what Mrs Prime Minister said at the outset, as well as her client colleague, what we have not done, we should do – we have done a great deal and you can also look at the results of one and another Janša's government. Even in 2012, the debt was significantly lower than it would have been if the Pahor government had ruled. What we have today is new credits for 7.7 billion in one year, we have committed to only one or three-year bonds to one closed market provider for 1.5 billion. That was the most expensive assignment, and it's not really what Mrs. Bratusek said. It is necessary to compare things that can be compared. Mr. SD – now I can't remember my last name, I apologize – said that the uncles fit in here and that we should replace them. Do you know how to replace them? With the chandelier we did not do in Slovenia. But they are in other countries, and that's why they don't have the problems we have. And that; it took a long time to find the ministers. Where will you get an economic minister who will come to the Ministry if last year the government of Alenka Bratušek has burdened the economy so that the new minister can only watch from day to day the companies that are so burdened are failing? You'll find it hard to find a minister because he won't be able to do anything. It's not going to solve things like that with corporate subsidies. It has been shown in the past that the greatest aid to businesses is to relieve them of their tax burden; you are only taxing them, and there will be no solution and no better results. Mrs Bratušek said how things were getting better, she also said that we didn't have many unemployed, that everything was great. Within a month, the numbers went up again, I don't know how many, so we don't believe or believe this government very much. The candidate for the Minister of Health also announced new burdens, participation in prescriptions, in medicines. I don't know if our people can do this anymore, and it's not a solution to what he says, more money into the health system, but first we need to put order in place. Not always new, but first stop bleeding, is added to the patient who bleeds on all sides. You promised there wouldn't be any new charges. She announced them, so we would expect DeSUS, who has the most problems with this, not to support them, but of course it will not, but will get enough votes. I do not support this government because of all the above, because I think we will face reality very quickly, even if Mrs Bratušek says she has to hire loans to pay for previous loans. Yes, loans from Mr Križanič, Minister of the Pahor government, must be paid. And now she has this client in the coalition, so they can talk about who's now to blame for her having to hire new loans. In short, I do not support this government and therefore do not support the candidates for ministers.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor now.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Given that more or less of all the parliamentary groups have already exhausted their time and that, of course, there was, on this side and on the other hand, more or less to expect what responses will be, I do not even comment on them, I believe that it will be only one principle: if everyone today who has said that there has been less than three months too long to reach the new ministers and ministers, I think it is time to close this debate as soon as possible and give these ministers the opportunity to start their work. However, it is necessary to stress the following, at least in my view: whether you want to admit it or not, at the time that it took over the rule, it was at the most difficult moment that it had to take over the sins of all governments in the past, which, in one way or another, had to decide and, somehow, too, have too far-reachingly paved the way in which it went from the point of view of the debt itself. I believe that, given that the coalition that forms this government will, of course, take action as soon as possible. Of course, we expect a lot here, both in the Ministry of Economy and in the field of health, where I expect the new Minister to take the first serious steps to reduce this crisis and all those feelings of infirmity that governments have always encountered in this national assembly. I believe, however, that when we get this government's proposals, whether it is a coalition or an opposition, that it will also take a serious approach, not just from the position of 'because I am the opposition, I will vote against'. Thus your colleague on the Health Committee said: "I believe you will do well, I know you and I know you are fine, you have good suggestions, you presented well, but you understand me, I cannot vote for you." I hope you will support what is good. What you do not agree with, but will also explain and propose better measures. I propose that we close this agenda as soon as possible, including by sharing time. We have an hour and 23 minutes at our disposal, which means that we will continue to extend our time to take our minute, or we will give these minutes to new ministers and ministers to start their work as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u75	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone wishes to discuss the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly under Article 71(1). Since I can see there are other wishes, I'll just open the door for you to sign up for the debate. Please report to the debate. We have 7 more debaters reported; each has 5 minutes. First of all, he's a magician. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is true, after almost three months we will have a perfect government and, after all, I personally wish all the new ministers well. But I'm afraid they're going to have a lot of problems in the government themselves, a lot of problems. After all, because this government has not defined the real economic policy in the coalition contract. The Coalition Treaty is a set of wishes that are somehow coordinated between all coalition partners, but there is no action to come out of the crisis. And given that there are no measures to get out of the crisis in the coalition treaty and that it is actually some kind of glue that does not talk about key problems and key solutions to how to overcome these problems, of course these ministers, or both ministers and ministers, will have a major problem in doing so. In addition, the Minister of Health’s programme is inconsistent with the Coalition Treaty itself if it predicts new taxes or new burdens. After all, it has been said several times by the representatives of this government that there will be no new burden, which of course means that the first conflict situation will already occur here and that nothing will be resolved in the area of health in this mandate. If the former Minister has failed to make a medical reform, I doubt it will be possible for this Minister to do so. Mr Dragonje's performance was certainly appropriate, and the question is how powerful he is. After all, the use of European funds will also be lost and, after all, there will be a number of subsidies, tourism, competitiveness – the very soft areas in which it will not actually be able to manage and with which it will not be able to draw the country out of the crisis, no matter what status it has, as we know, will have the status to be subordinate to finance. Here it was also defined that citizens and citizens should be better off than they were a year ago, 12, 13 months ago, that progress is obvious and so on. It is important to be aware, ladies and gentlemen, that the state has committed itself to 80% of the gross social product. This is an enormous amount, and this is the biggest leap that any European country has made from 2008 to 2014. And even more, 75% of this debt has to be paid to foreign investors, to America and partly to Europe, to their financial institutions, and interest is paid to their financial institutions. If we are talking about some sovereignty here, forgive me, ladies and gentlemen, we will depend on large financial investors such as Goldman Sachs, J.P. Morgan and so on, because we are directly or indirectly indebted to them. This is why today we talk about financial sovereignty when we owe ourselves, even if the President says that at a 4% interest rate – sorry, our competitors are indebted at less than 3% interest rate; I am talking about Czech, Slovak and so on. So here, in fact, about economic or any other sovereignty, there is no talk, but there is a greater dependence on foreign financial capital, and, of course, here is still a question of who to owe, who will give you lower interest rates or who will give you higher interest rates. It's very simple. For this reason, of course, I cannot assert that this sovereignty has increased in any way. Of course, I will not support these ministers and this government, especially because it does not have a real programme to come out of the crisis. We are the only country besides Cyprus, and Cyprus is already getting better, which will have negative economic growth in 2014 between the European Union countries. And there's no program. And there's no action. There is a lot of nice talk, there is a lot of fog mix, but there are no programs and actions to pull Slovenia out of the crisis and reduce unemployment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u78	Thank you very much. I have to say, I've been in the hall all along, I haven't practically gone out, and I've been listening very carefully to some things. I have already said how I intend to vote, so not to support these candidates, not because of them, but because of the current government, which is a fog, not a government, more hazy than a government. Look, I'm going to answer some of the things that people in this room happily spent. Here we go, Mr. Meh. Pension reform and I don't know what Mr Meh was saying. What does this have to do with today's point? No, but now we are equal; if he can, so can I, for we understand it. The 2011 pension reform was not given to the referendum by us, but by the unions. Go call Mr. Semolic, who is your colleague. So we're clear. The pension reform in 2012 was carried out by the Jansev government. I saw the painting because I was a minister at the time, and I was not in the National Assembly, as Borut Pahor congratulated Mr. Visiak. So let's get a little bit of this stuff together. The following was a speech on energy cards, which Mrs Póteta happily attributed to a minister of the Janša government, but the citizens know precisely that since 2006 they have not received any energy cards, they have paid nothing for energy cards, and now they must. It is said that despite lying in Parliament, citizens know what time it is. In 2006 there was nothing to pay, 2007 no, 2008 no, 2009 no, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 is, but this is your government. Moreover, of course, it did not go past Mr Bajuk; the dead do not yet have peace before SD and Mrs Potrat. I'm sorry. Not even dead. And not only after World War II, but also our fellow Members. Mr. Bajuk is supposed to be the one who introduced the real estate tax – it's not true, it's not true. I have participated in those governments as Secretary of State and it is quite clear that our purpose was clear. Building land is traded for real estate tax and sumarum sumarum under the line is the same price. So at least give Mr. Bayuk peace, Mrs. Potter. Then, of course, Mrs. Potrata was happy to talk about the archives – the archives are today's theme, aren't they? So, if I may, then of course, consider – you did not lead, Vice-President, but was led by your colleague – that if she is allowed to talk about archives, then I will also tell you the following about archives. According to the coalition, the archives are opening, but the truth is the following. With today's 11 restrictions on victims, we go to 6 restrictions on criminals and victims. It is said that today, officials, informants, subscribers and assassins are fully open, fully open, and we set 6 limits that are equivalent to those who were victims. So not to talk about these matters, and that is why the referendum is needed – because you said that the referendum was not necessary. Here's just one more thing. The most expensive loans – I don't know if people, because I'm quite pleased when I get the responses to what Madam President's speeches are. Look, that's the problem, isn't it? Sometimes people ask me, and they say, "Yeah, well, let some of you do it as quickly as they do on the left." And I tell them it's not in right-wing culture. It's not in right-wing culture, because right-wing people can't lie. In fact, the Prime Minister of the Government said - what? She said, "Dearest loans," but she didn't say whether it was one-year, two-year-old, three-year-old or ten-year-olds. However, citizens know that long-term loans are otherwise paid or have a different interest rate than short-term loans. But if we're watching this, then it's clear that you're the one who's most in charge. No, she's happy: Jansha's guilty. So, look, these things aren't as uniform as you say. As for the work of the government or of these ministers – otherwise, I may wish to them because I said before that we are buying a cat in a jacket. Actually, none of us know who they are. Only Mr. Draganjo do we know a few, the others don't. [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] the matter of this national council. [[...]] I can wish them well, but they're already sentenced to a bad result because of the bad government we already have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u80	Thank you so much for saying that. In this debate, after the presentation of the President of the Government in our parliamentary group, and also other Members, we have raised some questions and have also disputed with some of the views expressed by the President of the Government on this speaker. Despite the fact that the Government has reserved half an hour for the answers to the debates of Members, there is neither here nor the President of the Government nor any minister, anyone who would have objected to any claims made here, or commented on it, or interpreted it differently. And I must say that I am concerned about such a government that is not capable in the National Assembly in an open debate to discuss and politicise from the point of view of Members. The President of the Government said here that the foundations of the state are stronger than before, perhaps even at any time before. However, the moment when the Government indirectly burdens the family budgets with new taxes, with increased taxes, with additional costs of functioning of the country also undermines the foundations of families. The family, however, is the elementary cell of every society, a circled society in some territory, that is, the countries. And I must say that such claims are very problematic, do not hold, do not reflect the actual situation. Also, this huge forecast of economic growth is, in fact, twisted from the vine. On what will you build great economic growth? At a substantially increased property tax rate? At a tax reduction on the profits of legal persons? On increasing the income tax or reducing the benefits, on the KDs and so on? On what? On what will you feed and create conditions for better economic growth? On duty? This country's debt goes beyond all reasonable limits, across all reasonable borders. The first was due to the excessive indebtedness of the Pahor government; it was enormous in its decisions and it owed more than all governments by 2011 and 2009, before it. It is said that almost 20 years of this country have been less indebted than in just 3 years of the Pahor government. And the government of Alenka Bratušek, in which this smiling coalition is here before us, has in one year owed herself as much as the government of Pahor in three years. So much as Pahor's government in three years. And if I ask you now why this task was specifically used, for which investment, for which project, will be difficult to list on the fingers of one hand projects for which the money owed has been spent. I don't think there's a MP here who could say about this, this, this and this project we spent money on. The money was loaded, the one who was hired, into the Factor Bank, into Probank. There these depositors were nobility to those who ran these two banks, they received high awards, they were paid profits for the past years, and as soon as they did so, they went to the banks in a programmed liquidation. For such projects, the government of Alenka Bratušek spent the money. And in this way only individual budgets are strengthened, not rich national wealth, not creating new jobs, not contributing in this way nothing to development, but to destruction, in fact, to the destruction of all the legal, ethical standards that should apply in some healthy business environment. I think we need to make a radical conversion if we're to do anything good for this country or if you want to do anything. We know that in our party we can only propose a number of measures, from reforming individual laws or something else, but we cannot accept this, because we are not a coalition, we are a 'greet', we have too few votes. However, the path you have set with the programme, with the coalition contract and the Government's normative programme, is not the way to solve Slovenia from the crisis.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mag. Maja Potrat, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u82	Thank you very much. I will not waste my time answering Mr Gorenak in detail, but I will only tell him in general. He's having trouble understanding. That's his main problem. I wasn't talking about the real estate tax, but I was talking about the real estate inventory and the real estate valuation. This is the basis for what happened later. Now, to what I haven't talked about, it would be good to talk. Remember, it is likely that because of inconsistent regional development, it was the idea of adopting a type of legislation to regulate the development of deprived regions. This then replaces the law on coherent regional development and under this law Maribor due to the percentage of unemployed courts among those entitled to aid. At the time of the visit of the Prime Minister last year, Maribor or Podravje, I am also referring to this part of Drava north of Maribor, promised 66 million for development assistance. And several times we have pointed out to Members and Members from this end that it is a good promise to keep, and so I think that it is also a bit delayed, but the promise of the candidate for Minister Dragoj that he will examine the matter carefully and examine what is being done in the framework of the programmes that the Maribor Development Agency is prepared to co-finance in order to support. I expect this part of the promise to be fulfilled because the situation in Maribor is indeed such that it does not promise a quick solution. However, in some other parts of Slovenia, the whole range of industries that have completely failed in Maribor has shown propulsiveness, competitiveness, good development opportunities. That is why I do not think that it is possible to give up on average, but it is necessary to look here at which sectors have a future because of the high added value. I mean those 8 000 still operating in the textile industry, which are competitive and which provide an opportunity for employment. They will not be able to work only in tourism or in micro and small enterprises with high technological capabilities. In diversity there is probably a future, and here it seems to me that any project that appears to have a chance of success should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u84	Thank you very much. It would be good if we listened and heard it. Some of you just talk about how good and successful this government is. That's what the Prime Minister says, apparently even believes. But we heard that even in the days of the Pahor government, everything was great. You didn't want to compare yourself with one mandate before the results were actually good, there were no problems in the banks, you didn't want to talk about it, despite the fact that several times we requested extraordinary meetings on this subject, and a whole bunch of other matters. You didn't want to talk about credits, why we're hiring loans, if Mr Križanič would explain it to us then, as well as Pahor. Credits did not go back to investment, whatever, there were no new jobs, only increased unemployment, GDP fell and so on. Of course, the media were once again very cautious. And today, after a few years, we can also talk a little more realistically about the results, i.e. Minister Križanič's loans, about the doubling of the country's debt. So from independence to the Pahor government, we had 8 billion debt countries, then we doubled it to 16 billion in 3 years. Meanwhile, from 50 to 100,000, we came to 110 thousand unemployed, fell to GDP, everything went down. Then we had one year of government by Janez Janša, when we tried to stabilise things, we also actually took credit, but significantly smaller than if the coalition led by Mr Borut Pahor continued to rule. Then the government of Alenka Bratušek happens to us and we are again on the path of borrowing, where in just one year we borrowed 7.7 billion money, as much as Križanič did in three years ago, and as much as we had before from independence until 2009 when it came to power of the Pahor government. A little while ago, you signed a new agreement or a coalition agreement, whatever. I'd expect us to analyze the previous one first. The previous coalition agreement also stated that we will have economic growth, that unemployment will be reduced, that there will be no tax burdens – no analysis of whether we have fulfilled any of this, because of course we have not. We throw that paper away, we sign the new one, and we'll see if we can unlock anything in a year. Because of the debt, if we sometimes thought that the worst government was Borut Pahor's government, which, as I said, owed us from 8 billion to 16 billion, we have now doubled this in the new government, which is supposedly very successful, as the Prime Minister has said here, and others say that it is very successful, we have doubled in just one year. So if these are good results for you, I'm sorry, then we're really looking at things very differently. It was mentioned that the record and the property valuation law were adopted in the time of the Janša government. That's true, and that's when we started doing the censuses. But the law was still in force for seven years and could be fixed at any time. And if you were going to go with real estate tax, which appears to have been done very quickly, that we are now amending the Real Estate Registration Act, in three years the Pahor government and one year the government of Alenka Bratušek could change that if you estimate that something is wrong. What is a problem is that we also need to talk about the basis from which the tax will be applied and we need to talk about the coefficient or the factor of taxation. If it were still Janša's government, these factors would not be what you suggest. Every proposal we make, every action we've proposed, which you've then taken, you've managed to screw up and spoil, that the thing has no tail or head anymore. This happened with the bad bank, it was necessary to remove Mr. Shirtzl, it was necessary to change everything, what about Sweden, or whoever is there now, they know who Herman Rigelnik is and what he was doing and so on. Things are going in a different direction than they were meant to. If a bad bank were to be carried out as we imagined it would be, and those who signed up under bad loans would be called in differently today. It's the same with the holding company. The Holding Act is valid for one year and you do not want to implement it because for every measure that is good, you are only looking for a variant of how not to implement it. So you backed the fiscal rule with a fig in your pocket last year and didn't make the law in six months because it wasn't your option, and then you did it so that they wouldn't be small in Europe and because you wrote it down in the stability programme. But you never meant to do that, and that's why you do it. I do not support this government, nor do I support the candidates for ministers.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Matevž Frangež, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u86	Since time was running out in the first attempt, some of the messages that I would like to give to one of the candidates in particular. I don't mean to say that the other two departments are anything less important. Personally, I am less familiar with them and will not be smart in the field of relations with Slovenians around the world and in place, nor in the field of extremely neat health care. But I hope to say that what Slovenia needs is an active management of economic policy. We all know that there are exceptional problems on the ground in companies. These problems sometimes have a common point of view, such as difficult access to finance, non-competitiveness of the Slovenian economic environment, and are sometimes quite specific. We face the fact that the Ministry of Economy is a weaker ministry every year. First of all, we've put energy out of this ministry, now it's the sphere of cohesion, and I think it's the same thing, because it seems to me that in the economy it was creating conditions for the development of entrepreneurship, for the development of industry, tourism and the economy in general, in the shadow of other more important topics and areas. I remember a time when the Minister of Economy acted primarily as Minister of Energy. That is why I think it is appropriate that this ministry is now quite vilified and that when we think of the Minister for Economic Affairs, we will think of the Minister for precisely this and not a few other very important things. Because the economy needs the attention of the country because the problems in the economy are so accumulated that we need an excellent moderator who can listen to the economy and horizontally, in connection with the various resources, solves problems. One of the problems that the Minister of Economy cannot solve at all is, for example, the issue of some outdated provision in the Mining Act, according to which a company that is bankrupt after a previous understanding of bankruptcy can no longer exercise the right of exploitation, such as a quarry. This particular problem, which has led to a number of bankruptcy construction companies operating successfully in bankruptcy and promising to pay their creditors successfully, makes the economy more difficult. We have a provision under the responsibility of the Minister of Infrastructure, indirectly the Minister of Justice, which is important, and I expect that the Minister of Economy will be able to create a priority and agree on the necessary solutions within the Government. These solutions can often be very simple. Another time. It seems to me that it is extremely important that we reintroduce the fight against bureaucracy among the Government's high priorities. Not only with paper dragons, but with the concrete understanding and attitude of the administration to the concrete problems facing the economy. I must say that in these five years, as a Member, I have encountered some cases where, in fact, a weak administrative understanding of the economic situation, economic problems and economic legality has created new and new problems for this economy. And in the administrative apparatus, it seems to me that we are poorly qualified to resolve economic disputes, especially when they take place on a national-business basis, effectively and in particular quickly. Because time is, of course, money. Majda Potrata mentioned the problem of Maribor and the realization of government commitments to help Maribor with a wider environment a few minutes ago. I want the Minister of the Economy to ensure what he has already said at the hearing, and this is a commitment that what has been promised should also be realized. Maribor needs this and time in this area is running out, and also in this area is time money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Even Mrs Sonja Ramšak as the final debater.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! However, I understand Mr Möderndorfer's wish to see the debate in the National Assembly concluded as soon as possible, but in view of the indications he made, I could say that, in fact, the President of the Government has encouraged a number of discussions in this National Assembly when it mentions false or misleading data. We are all aware that, as my predecessor said, the main problem in Slovenia is economic recovery and that it is very important here that the Minister of Economy can take up his post as soon as possible and start doing his job. I fully agree with this, but of course I cannot forget that it has been three months, but the coalition has not awakened and has not accelerated the search for the Minister of Economy. I believe that the candidate who is ahead of us today and who is supposed to be confirmed by the coalition can succeed only as much as he has the support of the entire coalition. However, everything that the candidate for minister has stated in his presentation will be very difficult to achieve because you simply do not have it in the coalition contract. In the field of health, which is particularly important for citizens and citizens, it is also important to draw attention to the debt of social funds. And if we are already making comparisons between the Janša government and the government of Alenka Bratušek, it must be said that the deficit in the social funds at the end of 2012 was 51.9 million, while now, in the time of the government of Alenka Bratusek, this deficit has increased by as much as 50%, that is to say, it has risen to 76.7 million euros. And let me continue where I was previously deprived because of the time I spoke about the patient stocks of citizens and citizens. The pressures of people are extremely great. At the loss of a job or at the fact that some employees do not actually receive all that they are entitled to under labour law, I am also talking about travel costs, a number of people decide to take leave or go to hospital stock because they are simply not able to bring themselves to work. The Minister did not discuss the reasons and how she would address the reduction of the disease stocks. There is also an increase in attendance at psychiatric clinics, and this is also at the expense of families in distress over losing their jobs. It is, of course, important to stress here that the number of active citizens has decreased significantly. At the time of the government of Janez Janša, these 792 thousand 948 were, but now we can say that only 791,323 citizens and citizens are active, that youth unemployment is extremely critical if we say that at the end of the government of Janez Janša 22,6 was already 26,2 and that at the end of 130 thousand unemployed people, we do not think of the hardships our citizens and citizens face. And even when we are talking about the shortage of doctors, of course, the Minister has not offered what will be the quick, urgent measures, intervention measures to reduce the hardships of people in the countryside. In fact, in many rural outpatients, they simply do not have the option of medical treatment and therefore have to drive themselves or their children or older family members elsewhere. Speaking of health care, I would also like to say that I resent the fact that the minister's candidate did not speak of a strong lobby in health, both in the field of medicines and equipment, and that the media have been full of it lately. How, in the fight against corruption, we have not heard of it, of course, how measures will be taken against corruption. Why? She probably knows that answer herself and probably the coalition. In fact, there are lobbies in health care; you have been warned by doctors themselves who control this scene and it is very difficult to reduce and provide funds. And this is also at the expense of the health of citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u89	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. The vote on the list of candidates and candidates for the Minister and Minister will take place today in the framework of the vote, 15 minutes after the end of the 3rd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, it's a re-decision on energy law. At its 7th regular meeting on 4 February 2014, the Council of State requested that, pursuant to the third indent of the first indent of Article 97 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the National Assembly decide again on the Energy Act before the announcement. To explain my request, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Mr Rajk Fajt.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u90	Madam President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, nice greeting! The Council of State considered the proposal for a law, namely the Energy Act, and in its conclusion wrote down or voted on the conclusion that the law was too extensive and imprecise. The definitions of the terms and content of individual articles are repeated in several places and it would therefore be appropriate to consider the adoption of a separate law for each area. This has also been demonstrated in the debate when we had candidates, and, of course, thinking in this direction would not be too much. The rules of the European Union also distinguish specific areas. Thus, for example, Directive 2009/72 of the European Community refers to the common rules of the internal market in electricity. Directive 2009/73 of the European Community refers to the common rules of the internal market in natural gas and so on. Thus, the law does not bring about simplification or reduction of administration and does not eliminate bureaucracy, but even bring new enlargements. The key reason for the request that the National Assembly decide once again on the Energy Act is that we cannot agree with the provisions governing the energy card in particular, especially those which extend the obligation to produce an energy card through the minimum standards of the European Union. Thus, Directive 2010/31 of the European Union does not prescribe such strict conditions for obtaining a licence for an independent expert who may issue energy certificates. It also does not prescribe a specific register of energy cards. We agree that a record is needed, but we believe that the introduction of all these new registers will only encourage and complicate procedures. So, all of this costs a card, and according to available sources, the owners of individual houses would pay for an energy card between 300 and 600 euros, and for multi-housing buildings in several thousand euros. We have repeatedly asked or asked for an answer as to what the actual price will be, but we have never been able to get this information from the applicant, and we are wondering why we should avoid this data. The price of energy cards in some European countries is around €10 for one-house houses or apartments, says up to €50. This means that on this basis, our energy card would be 10 times more expensive. On the basis of the data in the register of licences granted to independent experts for the production of an energy card, it shows that there were 20 at the time. 12. 2013 registered in the register of 141 independent experts who were granted a licence to produce an energy card and given that in Slovenia there are slightly less than 850,000 housing units or slightly less than 500 000 houses, and taking into account the cost of producing an energy card, it is, of course, an assumption that we can calculate that the potential earnings of independent experts for producing an energy card every 10 years are more than 250 million euros, which would mean that an independent expert earns almost 200,000 euros each year. We are afraid that the image is repeated when chimney services were introduced, when some individuals were awarded concessions, and according to data that are, of course, accessible, went a lot, a lot of citizens' money into those lucky people who were at the right time in the right place and obtained those licences. The 11th part of the Energy Act lays down fines on the euro, and we wonder why the energy efficiency chapter does not set criteria, such as the size of the building, the destination and so on or set a certain ceiling, such as that of the legal tariffs. [[End of discussion warning sign]] Ten more seconds. I'm sorry. Thus, a similar question is raised as to why houses that are typical and manufacturers have already defined the content of an energy card – why it is necessary for these buildings to redefine an energy card, and why, for example, if someone buys this building and sells it after two years, it would not apply in the same way as for an energy card, the validity of 10 years. Similarly, it is set up for orderly houses, where there are several similar buildings, and for each building a special energy card is required. Maybe that's all. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u91	Mr. Fite, your time is up. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u92	All right, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The request was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure and Space as the parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the representative of Mr Sam Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! At its 32nd emergency meeting on 13 February 2014, the Committee on Infrastructure and Space considered the request of the Council of State to re-decision on the Energy Law submitted by the Government to the National Assembly and adopted at its 21st meeting on 30 January this year. As a key reason for the request for a re-decision on the Energy Act, the Council of State cites non-conclusion, in particular, with provisions introducing an energy card, as they see it as extending the obligation to produce an energy card through the minimum requirements of European Union rules. The National Council emphasises that these facts significantly undermine the production of an energy card, for which house owners are expected to pay between 300 and 600 euros, and the price for a multi-housing facility is estimated to be up to 3,000 euros. According to the State Council, the Energy Law provisions impose excessive red tape, allowing for extremely high energy card prices. The Energy Card is only informational and presents a technical document based on a mathematical calculation based on known data. The State Council points out that its production does not constitute a demanding technological operation, but rather a relatively simple process, which is given too much importance by excessive regulation and consequently too much price. On behalf of the Government, the Secretary of State is mag. Bojan Kumer rejected the State Council's statement on the extension of the obligation to produce an energy card through the minimum requirements of the European Directive. He stressed that only a minimum transposition of the provisions of the European Directive relating to the production and issuance of energy cards was carried into the Slovenian legal order. At the same time, he pointed out that the price of the card is not determined by law or by sub-legislative acts, but in this area we have an open market regulated by supply and demand. He pointed out that the calculation of potential costs at the level of the whole country was wrong and misleading. Energy cards do not need to be produced for existing buildings which are not sold or sold for a period of more than one year. With regard to the statement that the energy card had only an informational character and that it was a simple process, he pointed out that the energy card was a public document and, as such, did not have only an informational character. He further stressed that the energy card is intended for the buyer and the new tenant, who will provide clear information on what else needs to be done at the facility in order to make it more effective. In accordance with its competences, the Legislative and Legal Service has examined the request of the State Council for re-decision and notes that the State Council’s statements relate to issues related to the assessment of the substantive suitability of the legal regime and that the questions thus identified are in a commercial manner beyond the scope of the tasks of the Legislative and Legal Service. In the debate, opposition Members stressed that a great deal of efforts had been made to reach agreement on some of the solutions that had been disputed in the main opposition proposal. However, in their view, some extremely important areas remained uncoordinated in the Energy Act and will not be supported this time, as in the third reading. The Coalition Members, however, warned that the Energy Act has more than 550 members, of which only a few articles regulate the energy card. They considered that this was no reason to reject the whole law, especially since two European directives are being implemented in the law, with which our country is already significantly behind schedule, and as a result, we are at risk of paying a fine of 20,000 euros a day. With regard to data on the significantly lower cost of producing an energy card abroad, they called on the Government to examine and compare the market or price of its production in other European Union countries carefully by the end of the year and, if possible, to draft a new law that would place a cost burden on the owners of the facilities in this area. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted, by a majority of the votes of all members, 9 and 3 against, an opinion that the Energy Act was appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u95	Thank you very much. In order to explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government as a proposaler of the law. Mag. Bojan Kumer, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Members and honourable Members! Today you have a re-decision on the Energy Act. The law transposes the provisions of the European directives governing the energy market and the promotion of energy efficiency and renewable energy sources into the Slovenian legal order. As has been pointed out many times before, the situation is unfortunately that because of the non-implementation of the directives, we are threatened by the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which would impose a high fine of EUR 20 000 per day on the Republic of Slovenia. In preparing the bill, the Ministry made sure that administrative burdens were removed as far as possible and that unnecessary administrative procedures were not prescribed. The bill thus abolishes licences for energy activities, suspends energy licences for all energy facilities, except for power plants. The law provides the legal basis for the adoption of strategic documents in the field of energy, namely the Energy Concept of Slovenia and the National Development Energy Plan. We currently do not have a legal basis for the adoption of these, and they cannot be adopted before the adoption of the Energy Act. The Ministry already has activities to prepare the Energy Concept of Slovenia, which clearly needs Slovenia. In particular, I would like to highlight the so-called area of energy cards mentioned in this energy law. The basic regulation of the energy card system stems from the existing energy law. Provisions concerning the energy card were already adopted by the National Assembly in 2006. Energy cards are produced today on the basis of existing law and on the basis of existing sub-legislative acts, based on an existing regulation called PURES. To date, 132 energy cards have been produced, of which 5 energy cards for one-bedroom buildings and 31 energy cards for multi-house buildings, remaining for non-residential buildings. I'll talk about the prices later. The new energy law in the field of energy cards mainly brings about the following changes, positive changes. It will establish a functioning system that will result in lower energy card prices than in the neighbouring Member States of the European Union, despite the fact that we already have those prices, I am speaking. It reduces the volume or number of commitment holders to the mandatory production of energy cards, reduces the conditions for the production of energy cards, resulting in a higher number of manufacturers, including young people with less experience, and this will provide a higher supply and thus lower price. It provides a legal basis for simplifying sub-legislative rules in the field of energy cards, so that the production of energy cards will be simpler, more transparent and, of course, cheaper. It introduces control over energy cards and introduces standardisation of energy cards, ensuring the basic purpose of energy cards, providing accurate, useful information for owners or users of buildings at the lowest possible price. The regulation of the field of energy cards in the new energy law into the Slovenian legal order only transposes the minimum legal requirements laid down in the Directive. However, EC-1 is not only an energy card law which is regulated by only 13 substantive articles of a total of 558. Other provisions of the law also have a number of positive effects on consumers and consumers. Firstly, the law newly regulates the common rules of the internal market in electricity and natural gas in accordance with European legislation, which will ensure competitive prices and reductions for energy in a wide range of sectors, both in electricity and in natural gas. Secondly, it will further protect household consumers, as well as extend protection for small business customers. Thirdly, domestic customers will be able to switch suppliers and go to a supplier with lower prices up to 50% faster than before. Today it is possible in 50 days, then in 21 days maximum. Small business customers will be able to terminate existing multi-annual contracts without compensation after one year. It introduces a long-term sustainable renewable electricity support scheme to ensure that electricity consumers are less burdened by additional costs of promoting renewable energy. And six times, in all the areas listed above, it will increase the transparency of legal regulation and thus legal certainty. Finally, not least, in parallel with the law, we are also preparing measures to ensure the functioning of the energy card market and consequently to lower energy card prices. Firstly, we have already published recommendations for pricing, including recommended maximum prices comparable to all neighbouring members within the European Union. We are monitoring the prices of the energy cards issued, which shows that the realised prices of the energy cards issued, mentioned earlier, range from 0.25 to 0.8 euros per square metre. This is, if we convert it into an apartment, from €21 into an apartment to €72 per apartment. Thirdly, the government will draw up a decision in parallel with the law, which is already being prepared to mitigate the highest energy card prices, which will be strong, as previously mentioned, €1 per square metre. It is the law of which today is the subject [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] the energy cards will go into this PURES sub-legislative rule, which today is the source of all the problems when prices are being developed. [[...]] And if we don't accept the law, we can't do that. And I am sure that today I have listed only a few arguments and that is enough to show support for the law once again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u97	Thank you very much. We are now moving on to a presentation on the views of the Group. Mr Jožef Horvat will be the first to present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u98	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Council of State and the Secretary of State! Christian Democrats of New Slovenia to the Energy Act, which we are re-declaring today at the request of the State Council, we oppose and we will vote against. Why? In particular, because of the numerous criticisms of the professional public and the State Council, because it could not be improved because of the rejection of all our proposed amendments and because we must adopt an energy strategy or the Energy Concept of Slovenia before this law. Some of the solutions are good, essential shortcomings of the Energy Act, which will lead to opposition in Novi Slovenija at the time of the re-voting, but are as follows: poor strategic direction, unacceptable provisions on free service for energy infrastructure on land owned by a country or municipalities that do not belong to exceptions, so that investors in energy infrastructure will not be obliged to any compensation for interventions in the space, limited use of space and lower value of such properties that should be paid to municipalities and countries. This is mainly the area of the Republic of Slovenia where very profitable transmission gas pipelines will take place for the sale of natural gas in other countries. In the control process, the Energy Agency shall be given considerable powers beyond even the powers of the police. The implementation of the distribution operator's economic public service is also inadequate, as arrangements with one system operator for the whole country should be maintained. The law broadens the obligation to produce an energy card through the minimum requirements of European Union rules, which significantly undermines its production. According to available data, the house owners will cost between 300 and 600 euros and up to 3,000 euros for a multi-housing facility. We are particularly outraged by the inadequacy of the current government and the coalition towards poor taxpayers. They have already been punished with property taxes, and now they are facing a strong price tag. Let me illustrate. The price of energy cards in the UK for one-bedroom apartment is about €42 and for a three-bedroom house about €54. In Slovenia, therefore, the production of an energy card will be approximately 10 times more expensive. Despite the explicit option given to us by Article 11, paragraph 7, of Directive 2010/31/EU, Slovenia will obviously be the only one where typical houses will also need to obtain its own energy card for each individual house, and therefore the price is higher again. Overpriced bureaucracy allows for extremely high prices of energy cards, although they are only of an informational nature and represent a technical document whose preparation does not constitute a demanding technological operation, but rather a relatively simple procedure which gives the Energy Act too much importance and thus too much price. Of course, at the meeting of the home working body to address the demands of the State Council following the re-decision of the Government, the Government has rejected all the evidence-based findings non-chalantly and the coalition Members have warned that the adoption of Energy Law 1 is necessary, as we are otherwise at risk of punishment. These arguments don't convince us. Energy Law 1 leaves some extremely important areas uncoordinated and, as in the third reading, we will not support it this time. The argument that the production of an energy card is limited to those owners who will sell or rent their facilities is therefore cynical, as it is clear that the requirements of the European directives are being stepped up in practice. This means that the next directive in this area may already contain an energy card requirement for all objects. We therefore call on the Government once again to commit itself publicly to proceed with the amendment of Energy Act 1 in the event of a re-confirmation of the law in the National Assembly in order to significantly reduce the cost of producing an energy card. Let me conclude with concern. The Energy Act is unfortunately the result of distortion of the minimum requirements of the European legal order and [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] The unsatisfying greed of influential lobbyists, in order to tax already punished citizens, this time with unacceptable expensive energy cards. [[...]] This is another in a series of criminal laws of the current authority that makes life impossible for ordinary people. That is why the Energy Law must be stopped in the event of a re-voting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u99	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group, Positive Slovenia will be presented by Mr Jože Velikonja.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u100	Dear President, representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, we regret that the Council of State has decided to apply for a re-decision on the Energy Act, which regulates the whole energy sector in Article 557, solely because of disagreement with the four articles governing the energy card. In the parliamentary group, we assess the decision of the Council of State to be unreasonable, since instead of vetoing after the law has been enacted, it could introduce a new law to amend those articles. In Positive Slovenia, we would also like to draw attention to the facts concerning the energy card, which we consider to be irrefutable. The Energy Card does not have a purely informational character. It is a public document intended for the user to know how much he will have to invest in the facility, to be sufficiently energy efficient or to be cost-effective in renting. The energy card is also not a new instrument, but a legal energy efficiency instrument has been introduced since 2006. The energy card must be provided by the owner of the property. Anyone who never sells or rents real estate will not have to make an energy card. Since the issue of energy cards was already a matter of spirit at the very stage of the consideration of the bill's proposal, we have agreed on a transitional period in which we will examine the appropriateness of the solutions adopted. Therefore, the Energy Act contains transitional provisions, one of which also relates to a transitional period of at least one year when the non-production of the licence is not punishable. In Positive Slovenia we agree with some experts' warnings that the energy card is too complex for simple housing and too simple for complex buildings such as hospitals and business buildings. At this point, however, we also agree with the Government's arguments which point out that the decision for a particular type of card was conditional on the construction and renovation of buildings and in these ways the various energy partial rehabilitation of buildings. Another problem is the pricing of services or the production of an energy card. Already there are prices on the market that are completely unrealistic. In the parliamentary group, we believe that the state should set or regulate the price itself, so we expect the competent ministry to consider determining the price of the card by law or by means of sub-legislative acts. Otherwise, the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia will support the Energy Law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Daniel Krivec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, representatives of the Council of State, colleague and colleague! We have before us a re-decision on a very large and difficult law governing the whole field of energy. It is a system law that went through a detailed examination in the National Assembly and experienced the veto of the State Council. Much effort has been made to improve the marriage to the fullest extent possible. Many comments from stakeholders and the Legal and Legislative Service were taken into account by the introduction and adoption of individual amendments with a view to improving the content of the Energy Act. Nevertheless, the fact that the law is too extensive and to a large extent imprecise is a fact. The main motive in the drafting of this law was the transposition of the ten directives in the gas and electricity fields into our legal order, thereby avoiding lawsuits and sanctions that would affect us. However, in addition to the requirements of the third energy package, there are many other changes in this law, which are incomplete and cover the interests of certain lobbying in individual articles, which will allow some to make good profits and strike citizens in the pockets. The law brings forth a number of new bureaucratic obstacles that should be reduced, not reintroduced into marriage. However, the adoption of such a demanding and extensive law by emergency procedure has prevented further coordination, verification and improvement of individual content. We have not been able to remove key content and weaknesses from this law. This is mainly the part that relates to simplification, reduction of administration and excessive red tape. In practice, this will cause problems and the law will have to be amended very soon. These are purely bureaucratic matters that needlessly increase administration and prolong procedures. In the area of the system operator of the electricity distribution network, too, the proposal of the law seeks to introduce changes, which could be followed by several system operators. The State has already awarded a concession for the management of the economic public service of the system distribution network operator throughout the Republic of Slovenia for a period of 50 years. Therefore, we do not see the need for the concession to be shared, since this has been regulated for the next 50 years by granting a concession to one legal person, that is to SODO d. o. o. There is something similar in the field of energy cards, which is until further expensive public paper. There was a very broad debate around this, from which we all probably learned something. We were able to figure out the price of this energy card. The Ministry initially talked about the price of the card about EUR 1 per square metre, which would mean 150 sq.m. for the apartment house. But if we look at the websites, we understand that this energy card will be significantly more expensive. If we look at data from abroad, the price of the energy card compared to our data is significantly lower. Why does the energy card cost us so much? Because around this document, which is basically a technical document, an entire science and a very extensive administrative bureaucrat procedure have emerged. Given that the energy card is valid for 10 years, the potential earnings of around €200 million will be made available to certain lobbyists every 10 years. Why do we impose more obligations on real estate owners than is strictly necessary, and why does the obligation to produce an energy card increase through the minimum requirements of the European Union directives? In this case, in discussions and coordinations, we have not been able to simplify what the directive actually imposes on us, or indeed requires all this licensing, registration in additional registers, unusually strict conditions for obtaining a license for an expert and so on, which, of course, further undermines the process of obtaining an energy card. Since we read this directive differently, we cannot agree with the solution in law. We insist on simplifying the procedure to eliminate the administrative bureaucratic story because in our view it is totally unnecessary, which is also evidenced by experience in other countries. Simplification would therefore also mean an appreciation for the production of an energy document, which will have to be available to all buildings as soon as possible. The proposed energy law, therefore, cannot be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group in spite of the fact that there have been quite some improvements because of all the improvements mentioned in the re-decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Samo Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! We have before us the final act of adopting the Energy Act, the umbrella law for energy in Slovenia. The marriage is extensive, and we discussed it extensively in the National Assembly. With all the coordination, amendments and compromises, we have led the law to a decision. Marriage is not bad, but as always, no one is perfect and there is always room for improvement. Today, when we decide again on the Energy Law at the request of the Council of State, I would like to say that the problem of the institution of the Council of State is also that Members can only vote on the law in its entirety, accept it or reject it. Unfortunately, we cannot change the content of the law in the part that talks about the energy card. At the same time, it should also be stressed that Slovenia is at risk of failing to implement the two directives of the European Commission with a fine of EUR 10 000 278 per day for each directive. These are extremely high penalties, and the country could pay more than 20,000 euros a day when this law is not adopted. We are already late for the adoption of this law. Under the European Directive, the Energy Card is mandatory for public buildings and for dwellings sold or sold for more than one year. In the Social Democrats Group, we have already pointed out the additional costs of the energy card, but we claim that the energy card is not an unnecessary cost, but it protects the buyer or lessor of the real estate, because it is clear with the energy card how much the property is energy-efficient or cost-effective and the related costs are also clear. The cost of producing and obtaining an energy card is nowhere to be determined. As it regulates the price of the energy card market, the price of the energy card will mainly be affected by the offer of licensed independent experts and the demand of sellers or real estate lenders who acquire an energy card. For this reason, in the Group of Social Democrats, we would propose that the Government seriously examine the energy card market in the European Union in terms of whether the energy card in Slovenia is actually 10 times more expensive than elsewhere and how it is arranged elsewhere. We have 12 months to prepare a new energy bill in this direction, possibly in this direction, because with the third reading amendment we have passed a transitional 12-month period around advertising and punishment if you do not yet have an energy card when you are selling or renting an apartment. In the Group of Social Democrats we will once again support the proposed energy law, including the draconian penalties that threaten Slovenia if we do not adopt the law, but also because the law is good. We have put a lot of time and effort into improving it. However, once again, the law is good, but nothing in this world is so good that it cannot be improved, and so is the Energy Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u105	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Mr Marko Pavlisič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The Energy Law is one of the more extensive laws that this government has and will prepare. The European Union's third energy package is included in the Slovenian acquis. Given the breadth of matter – the law covers the following areas in its 557 articles: energy policy, electricity, natural gas, heat and other energy gases from completed distribution systems, energy efficiency and renewable energy sources, the Energy Agency, energy infrastructure – it is right that the proposer has decided on a new law and not a patchwork and a flaking of the existing law. The implementation of this law is only the first step in serious changes needed in Slovenian energy. The changes will continue with the Energy Concept of Slovenia, which will set the objectives of a secure, sustainable and competitive energy supply framework for the next 40 years on the basis of country's economic, environmental and social development projections and on the basis of international commitments adopted. The other welcome changes introduced by the law have already been pointed out in extensive debates in the adoption process and I would not like to repeat them here. However, that the law is good in the vast majority, it is clear that the re-decision-maker also agrees, since the specific findings were made only by one point, the energy card. The energy card is not something new, and that is why it is still a bit surprising to see the low level of debate triggered by the changes. The fact is that it will become mandatory for the owners of apartments and houses only at the time of possible sale or new rental. Calculations included by the re-decision proposer in their explanation are totally attracted to the hair. Thus, the re-decision-maker did not include any new facts, information or opinions that we were not aware of at the time of the initial decision. I understand that the applicant wishes to point out his existence occasionally, but I call on him to follow the adoption process in the National Assembly seriously. Of course, we always listen to the concerns of citizens in the Civil Gazette. The conditions for the production of an energy card have already been amended in the adoption process so that all conditions are laid down that the price is comparable to that of other European countries or lower. Competition between tenderers, whose number will increase, will do its job, and there will also be a number of sub-legislative acts. We are also seriously considering setting a maximum price at least in the initial stage when the market of operators is not yet established, as well as other ways of simplifying and lowering the price of the starting energy card, the right possibilities for producing an energy card based on actual energy consumption also for housing facilities. In spite of this, however, we will keep abreast of the situation in the National Gazette and call for immediate action from the Minister in the event that prices rise and do not fall and that they will exceed the range mentioned today by the Secretary of State, says a maximum of 0.8 euros per square metre. And once again, the energy card is only necessary in the case of sale or a new lease, a new tenant of real estate, so that the vast majority of people living in their house will not be forced to obtain an energy card as wrongly but for the purpose of, and this political purpose, an explanation. The energy card has its purpose, and it is not and must not be and there will be no wealth for the electorate. A set of possible measures is wide, but it is right not to resort to panic reactions in fear of the unknown. Finally, it will take at least another year since the introduction of this law, in order for these limited cases as well, for the real sale and the new issuance of real estate, the energy card will actually be needed. This means that we have enough time to make all the necessary changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u107	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Councillor of the State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian People's Party, we have been critical of the proposal for an energy law since the first hearing in the National Assembly. We have already made it clear that we would expect the proposer to first present in this National Assembly a decent energy concept, so that we can also speak openly about the direction in which Slovenian energy will go, and only then put in the legislative process itself a proposal for an energy law. Thus, in the Slovenian People's Party, throughout the legislative process, we have warned that the law is megalomanic, that it has been set in conflict, and most importantly, that it poses threats to new incentives in virtually all areas. While many amendments were adopted in three cases, some good but most controversial provisions remained. As so far, in the Slovenian People's Party, we are firmly convinced today that the Energy Act, accompanied by a convenient excuse to transpose European directives, is in fact giving citizens a new impetus, whether it is electricity, heating or new energy cards. And I'm going to take back our key concerns. The proposed energy law equates the conditions of small businesses with those of households. In doing so, it has different criteria for different energy sources. Power is important in electricity and annual consumption is important in gas. We're wondering why. The law also introduces regular and action prices for energy consumers, which is by no means a serious energy law, but perhaps more so in the Consumer Protection Act. Why should the selection of packages be limited to 12 months for the final customer? We ask who benefits from the reduction of the supply on the market and to whom there is no greater competition between suppliers. It would be interesting to know whose interest it is to protect certain energy service providers, for which the Energy Act thus directly restricts healthy competition. And of course they're here for the crown of everything else. The profession and the consumer association have given their comments on these energy cards, which are, in principle, a good measure, but because of the obvious impact of certain lobbying, they have already been born, and the purpose of which is to push the way towards new earners. The European Directive does prescribe energy cards, but according to the comparisons available, Slovenian energy cards, for example, should be worth as much as 10 times as British. Nor does the law provide for any stimulation, such as relief from real estate tax or credit benefits and subsidies. As now enshrined in the Energy Act, the introduction of energy cards will result in new unnecessary costs for people, for businesses and for the country on the one hand, and in the efficient use of money by manufacturers of these cards on the other. Everything mentioned in the Slovenian People's Party only confirms our already expressed dilemma that there is once again an influential energy lobby, which has been subjected not only to the department, but also to the entire government and coalition. All of this, and many other things, convinced the councilmen of the State Council that they had voted a procrastination veto on the Energy Act. And now there is another opportunity for this rude law to withdraw and for the Government to reconsider the fact that for such an extensive area as energy, the meaningful content of this would be divided into several laws, thus giving them more quality and substantively rounded sets. If I conclude, for the reasons I have stated, the Energy Act will also today receive the support of Members of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u109	Thank you, too. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respected and respected! The DeSUS Group will support the proposal for an energy law. As a key reason for the veto and the re-decision requirement, the Council of State underlines disagreement with all the provisions governing the energy card, especially those which extend the obligation to produce it through the minimum requirements of European Union rules. These facts are justified by the fact that the energy card in our country will cost between €300 and €600 and more for multi-housing buildings, and for other reasons. It is a fact that the implementation of the Directive of the European Union in the Energy Act on the Energy Card has resulted in the recording of stricter provisions than contained in the Directive of the European Union. Here I am primarily referring to the identification of the facilities for which an energy card is needed at the price of an energy card, to the identification of experts who can issue energy cards. So, obtaining a licence to issue a card is more strictly recorded than in the European Union countries. We discussed all these issues in the Infrastructure and Space Committee, but the article on the energy card was not open and could no longer be discussed and amended during the stages of the adoption of the law. Any delay in the adoption of the law increases the risk of fines due to the delay in the transposition of European Union directives into our Slovenian legal order. That is why we have decided on the Committee on Infrastructure and Space to support Energy Act 1 and we propose to the Government to prepare an amendment as soon as possible on the energy card, while ensuring that it sets out the energy card and the resulting obligations of our citizens to issue the energy card in the same way as in other countries of the European Union. In addition, in the DeSUS Group, from the beginning of the consideration of the bill, we have proposed that Directives should be implemented in our legal order first, so as to avoid substantive complications and delays, of course, assuming that the requirements of the European directives by transposition into our legal order would not be extended. In order to avoid the great punishment that threatens our country if the directives are not implemented in our legal order, and in the fact that the Government is expected to amend the law in accordance with the decision of the 32nd urgent meeting of the Infrastructure and Space Committee, we will support the law in the DeSUS Group of Members, as I have already said. Let me tell you what I think. Indeed, I do not agree with the position of Mr Velinje, a respected colleague, who said that a possible amendment of the law could also be achieved by means of sub-legislative acts. In fact, the law is not the same as the law; the law is adopted in the National Assembly, and I think it is necessary to correct the error here in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u111	Thank you. I must warn you, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat, that there is no controversy in the position of the Group of Members. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The re-voting of the law will take place today in the framework of the vote, 15 minutes after the end of the 3rd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS A REGULAR DECISION ON THE LAW ON MEDICINAL PRODUCTS. The State Council is at the 8th extraordinary session of the 11th. 2. 2014 requested that the National Assembly, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, decide again on the Medicinal Products Act before being declared. To explain the request, I give the floor to the representative of the State Council, Drag Ščernjavić.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u112	Nicely greeted! Hello, President, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament. I would briefly give some explanations for veto, reasons, reasons, as well as to imagine what we have accepted and where we are and where we are going. However, I say, as regards Article 105, which reminds me of what is going on in the field of drug trafficking, also very much from the point of view of the users who are completely forgotten in all these discussions, even when I have listened to the new Minister. There are many things happening, including many deviations, negatives. We demand that this too wide — we have stepped on Achilles’ tendon — so much so rejected — that drug dealers are too large to be identified. Numerous links between wholesalers, retailers and thus the emergence of various links and connections are possible. I'll give you an illustration, maybe you've heard a response to what was in the champagne hospital right on this segment and what's going on in there when this circle is spinning and how it spins. And it's as practical as you want it to be. This is warned by the KPK, the Court of Auditors, and the unions are being warned. When someone asks me if we're loud or too loud – we're loud, even in the State Council, but of course it's like a bob against a wall and nothing changes. The consequences of such connections at the final stage are felt by who? Users. The 450 million euros that are going around in this health market are, of course, as much as possible. Who among you would know when I've been in business, but there's not enough time, how the prices of medicines are coming in, how they come in, what circles they are, what margins there are, how they make 450 million euros out of this cake, all those who are wholesalers and small traders, are getting fat, getting rich, big profits, and the public treasury is pretty empty. 450 million euros! What will the new minister do, regulate this market? I can, very quickly, very quickly. What can he do? What the Ministry didn't do, I went to see, for health two years ago, when they were invited to do administrative control in the same champagne hospital on these issues. No, the world replied that there was no need and they were satisfied with it and the caravan moved on. If the Ministry had done for all 114 healthcare providers administrative supervision, and this could be done what is happening in this segment, I am sure that large savings would have been made. This is important. Over 450 million euros, and how much money goes into profits, and how much longer the types and all of this – I think we are all interested, but nothing happens, and here is the call for something on this segment to change and for this article in particular to be complemented and some things in practice cut, regardless of coalitions, one way or another. Practice is the main criterion, the criterion that shows what's going on. And the main criterion, the criterion for me, and for you, should be, is what a user of all this has and why so much money goes into this health care, and why we have such a bad condition as we have it. We therefore call for this 105th Article, which has also been pointed out several times in the course of the legislative procedure by the parliamentary groups, i.e. on your committees, the meetings I participated in, to be supplemented or adopted in some way. In the event that it does not, the National Assembly could also conclude, on a second occasion, that it would entrust the Ministry of Health with the task of exercising administrative control over all entities. There's 114 of them. Second of all, as far as this lab is concerned. The union, the workers who are also unionally organized in this laboratory, the Slovenian profession, which has been impersonated by the Faculty, the Dean of the Faculty, warns that this laboratory, which is now "laufa" and works well – no, we are now tearing it apart and transferring it to an agency, from Ljubljana, and this is not spatially important, to Maribor, to a wider agency, and this official laboratory, which will lose some of its own, would say the characteristics, which is also said in the veto. I'd like to ask you not to let that happen. Why do what works well for 60 years with few people, effectively, transparently, tear apart? Please. So far, I have not heard the right argument by the proposaler, why he is doing this and why he is doing it, and I would therefore urge you to stop this activity in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u113	Thank you, too. The request was addressed by the Committee on Health as a parent working body. I give the floor to President Alenka Jeraj to present the report to the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. The Health Committee shall meet at its 7th meeting, on 19. 2. 2014 addressed the request of the State Council that the National Assembly decide again on the Law on Medicinal Products submitted to the National Assembly by the Government and adopted by the National Assembly at its 21st regular meeting on 4 February 2014. The Committee was given the request of the State Council, the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service and the opinion of the Government. The meeting was attended by Mr Drago Ščernjavič, representative of the Legislative and Legal Service Mrs Špela Macek Gustin and representative of the Ministry of Health, State Secretary Mrs Brigita Čokl. The representative of the Council of State presented in more detail in the introductory explanation the reasons for the request for re-decision on the Medicinal Products Act, which are reflected in the written opinion. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service underlines that the indications raised by the Council in its request relate to questions relating to the assessment of the appropriateness of the legislation which are of a substantive nature, which goes beyond the scope of the tasks of the Legislative and Legal Service provided for in Article 27 of the Rules of Procedure. In addition to the written opinion, the legislative and legal service did not have any additional comments. The representative of the Ministry of Health summarized the Government's written opinion and explained in detail the reasons why the Government proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the Medicinal Products Act at the time of its re-decision. After a broad and controversial debate, which re-emphasized the most controversial articles – the abolition of the control laboratory, the wholesale sale of medicines and others – they warned and said they agreed with the Council of State. However, following the discussion, the opinion was adopted that the Medicinal Products Act was appropriate and that it had not been adopted by the majority of all members, since it was 7 votes in favour and 3 against and should be the majority, i.e. 8 votes in favour. Thus, the opinion was not adopted on the home working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u115	Thank you. In order to explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government as a proposaler of the law. You want a word? I give the floor to Brigita Chokl, State Secretary of the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members, distinguished other guests! Again, we have the Medicinal Products Act, which the National Assembly has already decided on on the basis of what has already been said, the veto of the State Council. The law fully regulates the field of medicines. The draft law introduces into the national legal order two Directives of the European Union, namely a pharmacovigilance directive and a directive governing the prevention of the entry of counterfeit medicinal products. In very controversial discussions, two points were raised – indeed, paragraphs 105 and 153 – but we forget what law actually brings new and important to our system. The issue is the regulation of Galen medicines, the provision of medicines in exceptional circumstances, the provision of medicines, the provision of medicines from budgetary resources and humanitarian grants, mandatory discounts on medicines whose costs are rising sharply and have not been addressed in the existing regulations and mechanisms. It will now be possible to include them and at the same time these medicines are not included in the group of essential medicines. It is newly stipulated that the country can also negotiate for the prices of certain medicines, and this is extremely important for the public procurement system. In particular, expensive hospital medicines are involved. As I said, so far this has not been possible and the arrangements can only be led by the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. It is further stipulated that public establishments that carry out wholesale activities may sell medicinal products at cost-transparent and non-profit prices. Further funding for non-intervention clinical studies is provided. Furthermore, the marketing of medicinal products by weight is regulated and wholesalers are classified according to the full or productive and contact-limited volume of trafficking in medicinal products. Furthermore, the import and entry of medicinal products for personal use is newly regulated and the list of essential medicinal products is newly regulated. The only thing I would say to Mr Ščernjavić's controversial debate is this: The Law on Medicinal Products, which happened in the champagne hospital, cannot be resolved. It's a case that has to be solved by management in every single institution. However, let me say that 120 people are employed at the entire Ministry of Health in the operational work. This is the smallest ministry in the Republic of Slovenia, and when he said that 114 institutions that should be looked at can be engaged virtually more than half of the Ministry only in cases of controls, namely administrative controls with limited scope. In the light of all that has been said, the reasons given by the State Council in its proposal for a veto on a proposal for a law, according to our assessment, are unfounded and, in the context of the debate on the Commission of the State Council and further at the meeting of the Council of State and the meeting of the home labour body, have also been adequately explained and reasoned. I therefore believe that the National Assembly should approve the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u117	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Lejla Hercegovac will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u118	Dear Prime Minister, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, guests, colleagues and colleagues! In its request for re-decision on the appropriateness of the Medicinal Products Act, the Council of State highlighted two key dilemmas which, according to their assessment, constitute a grave interference with public health. The first dilemma that the Council of State disagrees with is the adoption of Article 105 of the Act, which, according to their assessment, would extend the conditions on entities which may be wholesalers with medicinal products. Let me stress that the content of the existing article is identical to that of the article, as it has already been transmitted to the first reading. It is therefore a content that the Council of State met at its 11th meeting on 21 November last year. At that time, the State Council or the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons adopted a decision to support the proposal for a law. The content of Article 105, which is identical to that adopted, has not been discussed or pointed out by the Council of State. Therefore, at this stage, it is not appropriate to say that there is an enlargement of entities. In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, when we tabled the amendment to Article 105 and consequently to Article 197.a, referred to by the Council of State, we made it clear that this area, I am talking about horizontal or vertical connection in the sale of medicinal products, should be properly regulated in the Act on Pharmaceutical Activities. The next dilemma referred to by the National Council is the transfer of competence to the newly established National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food for the implementation of official quality control from the Public Medicines and Medical Devices Agency. In this segment, the Council of State relies on the findings of union representatives. At this point, I would like to point out that we have taken all the warnings, in particular those which have been forwarded to the National Assembly following the adoption of the amendments which have made this transfer extremely serious and have therefore addressed the Ministry of Health on several occasions with specific questions. According to our assessment, the ministry's responses were correct and professionally justified and we did not foresee any further changes in this area in the coalition. In its request, the Council of State underlines the need to maintain existing arrangements with a well-known work cycle and operating procedures and employees. Further explanations on the issues raised at the last meeting of the Health Committee of the representative of the State Council have not been persuaded, and they therefore expect the competent ministry to prepare an impact assessment or the sense of the transfer, in which experts from both institutions would participate, and propose that, in addition to the delegation of powers, activities be transferred together with the staff of the public agency. In this place in the Positive Slovenia Group we predict accurate and consistent monitoring of the transfer of these tasks, as it is a matter of protecting public health. We will not support the so-called veto in the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, as there is no argument at this time that, due to the request of the State Council, we will reject the entire Drug Law. This is a law which, inter alia, is a result of the 2010 European Directive, which has already given Slovenia an official reminder. This law introduces modern European guidelines into the Slovenian legal order and pursues important objectives such as strengthening public health protection and providing preconditions for the free and safe movement of medicines. We lay the groundwork for more effective action to prevent the entry of counterfeit medicinal products and other measures. A special chapter introduced into the law is the area of pharmacovigilance; it is a system for assessing and responding to new knowledge of adverse reactions and other safety aspects of the medicinal product when already on the market. We also want to avoid in a more appropriate way the intrusion of counterfeit medicinal products into the legal distribution chain, which can be extremely dangerous for the end-user. As we say, in the Group of Members, Positive Slovenia, we will once again support the Medicinal Products Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u119	Thank you. Mr Ivan Grill will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u120	That's a nice hello to you all! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will not support the re-decision of the Drug Law today, although we have had a positive opinion on it when it was being adopted, and we have felt that it would bring a lot of good changes, as well as European directives imposing the implementation of this legislation, of course, it must be taken into account, because otherwise we will also be subject to financial sanctions. Unfortunately, some amendments have been added to the law in the process of adopting this legislation and are not acceptable to the Slovenian Democratic Party. The greatest danger in this law is that different lobbies can pave the way for improving their market situation, which also increases the risk of corruption. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we supported the amendment proposed by DeSUS on the Health Committee to separate the activity of wholesalerism and drug reselling, but then at the plenary session itself this article was re-elected by the amendment that was tabled and the matter returned to its original form. Just in this amended provision is one reason why we will not now support this law. Another reason is that this new law abolishes the role of the Public Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, which has so far monitored the quality of medicines. The tasks of the official control laboratory under the law of this public agency are now transferred to the National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food. And it is with this transfer that there is a great risk of official quality control of medicinal products in Slovenia. The Laboratory of the Public Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices will have to cease operation after one year and, of course, this control or control will then be taken over by the National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food, which will, of course, require the National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food to become a full member of the European network of official control laboratories this year, which many experts believe is difficult to implement. For all these reasons, we will unfortunately not support this law today in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u121	Thank you, too. Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! Throughout the legislative procedure of the Drug Law, we have drawn attention to the professionally demanding substance of the law and the importance of the area governed by the law. At the same time, it is one of those areas where a lot of public money is also devoted to, so it is strongly under pressure from different lobbying and interest groups. All of this has also been demonstrated in the long-term process of three legal hearings, a veto vote and today's debate. Various interested experts in the area have constantly filled us with their professional views, which have often been contradictory. The two articles, two articles of 212, as far as this law is concerned, have been given the highest attention and controversy. The first is Article 105 of the Act, which lays down the conditions for drug wholesalers. Social Democrats believe that vertical integration in the chain of production, distribution and sale of medicines is not good, but the problem is multi-layered and must be treated as such. In particular, a solution must be found to prevent the cartel from negotiating and controlling the drug market of some of the largest drug tradesmen in our country. It is important for patients and for healthcare stores that medicines in Slovenia are more expensive than in the vicinity of the country. We therefore believe that this problem needs to be addressed systematically, in depth and that it does not belong to the regulation of the Medicinal Products Act, but to the Act on Pharmaceutical Activities, which is intended to organise activities. The ferocious reaction of some expert groups, such as the Faculty of Pharmacy, also led to Article 153, which transfers the activity of the official control laboratory from the public medicine agency to the National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food. According to the Ministry of Health, which is proposing this amendment, it is a reasonable and professionally justified solution, since the laboratory for health, environment and food, which is a new combination of the national laboratory, should have carried out such analyses by now. We believe that social democrats must take the evidence of the professional public seriously. The activity of the official control laboratory is extremely important in terms of the safety of medicinal products in Slovenia, so we hope that the Ministry of Health has considered all the factors carefully and that we all firmly believe together that the solutions in Article 153 are correct and without greater risks. At the same time, we expect the Ministry to monitor closely the activities of the official control laboratory and to respond appropriately if the decision is shown to be hasty and has not produced the relevant results. The deadline for the delegation of power is only one year. Until then, all open issues, including the acquisition of appropriate licences, must be resolved. Despite the concerns I have expressed, however, we must not cut down the entire forest because of some questionable trees. The substance of the new drug law is also the transposition of two directives, and if this transposition is not, and we are already seriously behind, more than 10,000 Euros a day are at stake. A day. The Social Democrats will once again be supported by the Drug Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u123	Thank you, too. Kristina Valenčič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, Madam President. State secretary with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! That health reform will not be able to be adopted without a broader social consensus, there is a thorny path accompanying the adoption of the Medicinal Products Act. The complication has already begun in determining the type of procedure or method of treatment and has continued until the elected veto of the State Council. In the opinion of the Council of State, two provisions have been made, namely Article 105, which extends the conditions governing which entity may be a wholesaler of medicinal products and Article 153, which confers powers on the performance of official quality control of medicinal products from the Public Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices to the newly established National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food. Both articles also received the most debate during the examination of the law in the National Assembly. In the Civil Gazette, we have advocated solutions since the draft bill, which allow for greater competition in the sale of fat products, since competition is the basis of a healthy business environment. We are convinced that excessive regulation on the market in medicinal products does not lead to greater availability of medicines and lower prices of medicines. This is also demonstrated by everyday practice and a number of cases of suspected corruption in the procurement of medicines. The latter case points to doubts about the non-transparent and biased procurement of medicines and medical devices in the champagne hospital. As early as October last year, the Competition Agency found that four pharmaceutical wholesalers had been holding a cartel deal on the cost of medicines. The Anti-Corruption Commission also proposed to the Ministry of Health to carry out administrative supervision at the previously mentioned hospital, but this did not happen as the Ministry was satisfied with the interpretation of the hospital council that no further measures were necessary. It is therefore more than obvious that the problem is not in the legislation in force, but in its implementation and monitoring. And since we are so often and like to look for more developed and more successful countries, let's see how their system is regulated in Austria. We have started to carry out activities aimed at centralising public health contracts in order to achieve lower prices and reduce corruption risks. They do not think about centralised procurement in Austria and have no need to do so. Why? Since in Austria there is a significant increase in the proportion of private health establishments that themselves care about the cost-effectiveness of purchases. If we want to further improve the quality of life of Slovenian citizens and the quality of treatment, we need to work in a stable environment where there will be clear, transparent and fair market conditions and equal conditions for all providers of medicines and medical devices. These cannot be created only by a country with legal standards; they must be created by the market and healthy competition. A large part of the problem lies in the field of moral standards, ethical values and personality of those in management positions, qualities that must be based on competences and knowledge, because without each other it does not produce adequate results. In the Civil Gazette, we advocate less country and greater individual freedom, so we advocate solutions that enable effective control, including the appropriate sanctioning mechanisms that supervisory institutions must have at their disposal. The second contested provision, according to the Council of State, is paragraph 153. During the course of the hearing, it was clearly presented by the Ministry that this transfer meant rationalising and optimising the organisation, procedures and human resources resources, which would consequently have an impact on the higher quality of the analyses carried out. In the Citizens' List, we are advocates of a slim and simple country that offers quality services to its citizens, so we have also supported the proposed solutions. Of course, it is not possible to overlook a number of warnings from the section of the professional public about the potential risks of such a transfer, so we call on the Government or the Ministry to monitor closely only the implementation of the reorganisation or this delegation of tasks and, if necessary, the appropriate action. Let me sum it up. The arguments of the State Council on the basis of the veto voted do not convince us in the Civil Gazette, so we will also support the law today.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u125	Thank you. Mr Janez Ribič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen! There were no adequate explanations in the parliamentary group regarding certain disputed solutions in the law, so we did not support the law. Clearly, the unsettled solutions have also divided only coalitions, so that the law on the home committee did not receive renewed support at the time of the veto. On the one hand, it is expected to bring positive provisions to prevent the entry of counterfeit medicinal products and, on the other hand, it is unclear in some essential changes and may therefore have long-term effects on the marketing of medicinal products. At the time of the proposal, the government stressed that it is in a hurry to implement the European Union Directive into the Slovenian legal order. In view of the developments in the adoption of the law, it is obvious that this is not only so important to the coalition, since the harmonisation and adoption of the law has already lasted six months in the coalition, which further casts doubt on the admissibility of the law and raises a number of questions to which it is intended and why such a law or certain provisions have been proposed in it. It has even turned out that the secretary has deceived the public by explaining the Government's opinion to 153rd Article, which introduces an amendment concerning laboratories which is not known what it actually brings and which even opposes the Faculty of Pharmacy of the University of Ljubljana. It is not good to insist on such warnings if it is not clear what the actual consequences of transferring the tasks of the official control laboratory from the public agency to the National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food will be. The objection of the Institute for Transfusion to the amendment to 105th Article seems to us to be well founded and has not been taken into account, although we have once again called for consideration of such a solution in the third reading position. We find it unacceptable that due to the conditions for the marketing of medicinal products, the transfusion plant will be restricted and will therefore have to destroy certain blood products instead of their use. In short, the law is inaccurate and it is not clear whether it will bring the necessary changes to the drug market. The first evidence is the comments made by experts, the second proof is the veto of the Council of State and the third that the coalition itself does not agree on certain solutions. Therefore, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party of this Act will not be supported this time either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u127	Thank you, too. Mr Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u128	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State with co-workers and co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the DeSUS Group, we found ourselves in a great dilemma in re-decision on the proposal for a drug law. The Council of State requested the re-decision of the National Assembly on the Law on Medicinal Products precisely because of the content that we tried to arrange with our amendments in the DeSUS Group during the consideration of the bill, which unfortunately were not adopted. The vetoes want to be complemented by the Medicinal Products Act so that healthcare or pharmacy operators and business operators established by the healthcare or pharmacy operator will not be able to carry out wholesale sales activities. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we agree with the proposed veto at this point, but in the Group of Members, we considered that the proposal nevertheless provides sufficient solutions to be worth our support despite our specific substantive concerns. In any case, we believe that the Ministry should regulate the issue of wholesalers in a more appropriate law, by amending the Law on Pharmacy. We therefore expect that the Ministry will solve this problem in the long-awaited amendment to the so-called pharmacy law. According to our assessment, this should not be too much of a problem, since there will be a fresh wind at the Ministry with the new minister, which will undoubtedly blow away all irregularities, including the problems caused by vertical connections in pharmacy activities for the benefit of public health and the failure to fill private pockets. That is why we expect the Ministry to draw up a new Law on Pharmacy this year as soon as possible and to address this issue of vertical connections that place profits in the first place, to prevent the reallocation and unintended use of public funds intended for public health care, to prevent the avoidance of public procurement, to prevent the artificial raising of prices and the impact of capital on professional decisions. If the Ministry does not come forward in due time with the preparation of a suitable amendment to the Act on Pharmaceutical Activities, we will in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia prepare this novel ourselves, which will solve the problems brought about by vertical links. In the DeSUS Group, when we passed the law, we were never disturbed by the transfer of competence to the newly established National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food to carry out official quality control from the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Medicines and Medical Devices. According to our assessment, the transfer to the national laboratory for a more professional solution and a more rational concept from a public financial point of view was made. In the DeSUS Group, we are also aware that we are already lagging behind in implementing the Directives under the Medicinal Products Act. The collapse of the law would probably result in the launching of EU mechanisms to pay back fines, which could amount to up to € 10,000 a day. It is true that the preparation of the law is the responsibility of the Ministry, which is late, and therefore there is no need to postpone responsibility to the National Assembly, but we strongly doubt that citizens and citizens will be seen as responsible for possible penalties by the Ministry and not by the National Assembly. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we will therefore, despite our concerns, also this time support the proposal for a drug law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u129	Thank you, too. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u130	Dear representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a drug law is a system law in this area that will fully replace the law now in force. First, the government has proposed the adoption of legislation following an urgent procedure in view of the urgency of the transposition of the two directives into our legal order. The Group objected and therefore supported the proposal to deal with such an important law on a regular basis. The proposer, in this case the Government, is responsible for taking into account the time needed for the legislative process and does not delegate his responsibility to Members when Slovenia is facing high penalties for the illegal transposition of directives. The use of medicines has increased not only in terms of the resources spent on their purchase over the last decade but also in terms of the volume or quantity of medicines used. In 2010, expenditure on medicinal products in the Member States of the European Union was on average almost one fifth, 19%, of all expenditure on health care and third place at the level of consumption, for hospital and out-of-patient treatment or care. On the basis of official records in Slovenia, drug consumption has increased by an average of 3.7% annually over the last 5 years. When we look at the 10-year period, the use of medicines increased by almost 60% in Slovenia. If we add to this the amount of medicines disposed of, which according to data for Slovenia amounted to 40 tonnes, we should already be deeply concerned. Inefficiencies in Slovenia are shown in the procurement of medicines and other medical equipment, resulting in millions of losses and financial flows analysis shows cartel arrangements between suppliers. On the one hand, therefore, losses due to imprudent public procurement and, on the other hand, pre-nuptial health stores, where taxpayers must also contribute more and more. Once again, we would like to draw attention to the Supervisor's data that as many as three quarters of a billion Euros are running into the accounts of a few ten companies, while the largest share of these funds is won by 5 bigogerists. These are the main suppliers of pharmacies with medicines that, of course, do not know the crisis. In New Slovenia, we believe that the proposed law does not sufficiently address the price of medicines. In adopting the law, the new Slovenia was supported by the amendment of the DeSUS Group, which regulates a set of business entities which are not allowed to engage in the transport of medicinal products by weight. Unfortunately, this supplement, which would introduce more transparency into the system and consequently lower the price of the registered medicinal product, has not been accepted. The question of the transfer of the tasks of the official control laboratory from the public medicines agency to the national laboratory was also raised in the course of the debate. The issue of the non-transferability of qualified and qualified personnel is particularly exposed and sensitive. However, the staff are the largest capital of the organisations. In Novi Slovenija, we will not support the bill for these reasons again.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u131	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The re-voting of the law will take place in 15 minutes in the framework of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. I also interrupt the 56th extraordinary meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 7 p.m. and 5 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u132	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Please check the operation of the voting devices. We continue with the end of the 2nd item of the agenda, this is the Renewal Decision on the Energy Law. We're moving on to a re-decision. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to adopt that law, the majority of all members of the assembly must vote, i.e. 46 or more. Can we make a decision? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u133	Thank you. Respectable ministers with teams, colleagues and colleagues! We will not support the SDS Group of the Energy Act. The reasons why not are more than enough. We have tried to draw attention to some through the adoption of certain amendments, but the coalition was undeniable and the law allows certain things that have a lot of theories and little practice, but in the end the entire Energy Act will be paid by taxpayers at the expense of lobbyists who conditioned their piece of cake. Energy card – a typical concept of how this government works and another speaks. The fact of the energy card is also that clearly certain people in the Ministry do not read European directives and that is why things are coming into the Energy Act that are not even in the European Directives and so on. In short, those who conditioned their piece of cake will earn it. It is also problematic that there is a lot of theory, but no practice, almost zero-energy buildings, the Energy Concept of Slovenia, but we do, despite the fact that there are probably good conditions for some serious debate on the Energy Concept of Slovenia, they have by no means come from the Minister's mouth and not from the Secretary of State. In short, the new coalition contract also shows that it can be much written and the problem will, as always, be in practice. Although there are good examples from history of how we can work well in the field of energy, recent experiences have shown us that we do not know how to do so. The TES 6 story, which we somehow do not know how to finish properly, we do not know how to continue to rebuild public buildings, although we can also use European funds effectively here and so on. Local communities are given a new task, a local energy concept that is likely to be more of a goal than a serious issue of how the municipalities should take on the energy renewal of their municipality in the future. And perhaps, to conclude, bureaucracy and lobbying with this law are losing their hands and probably their wallets. This chicken is completely unnecessary in such form and at the same price as you impose on Slovenian citizens. You said there would be no more new taxes, but you directly and indirectly introduce them, but of course you don't care, because the taxpayers will pay for it, so that they will help the "philate" in charge of the Slovenian cash register. In short, the reasons for being against this marriage are more than enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u134	Thank you. Can we make a decision? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Ambassadorial Group of Positive Slovenia, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u135	Thank you very much, President. In Positive Slovenia, of course, we will decide in favour of the positive green light on this law, but I must say that in Positive Slovenia we are particularly surprised by the paradox that has taken place in this law. Of the 300 amendments that have been adopted little less than 100, we end up talking only about the energy card and listening to a bunch of general claims that, of course, do not withstand any serious discussion. In fact, there is not a single figure in this law on how much an energy card is actually going to cost, not a single number of calculations, but on how much it's going to cost, and on how much it's going to cost. And I must say that the Ministry's representative has made it very clear on several occasions, not least today in his own explanation, that this will be decided by the Ministry by means of a sub-legislative act, but by a regulation which, of course, will go in this direction, that at least ten times the number you are predicting will be smaller than today, and some of the cards, as the practice has shown, have even been issued for virtually free. For this reason, it seems extremely unrealistic to me that today we are talking about the value of energy cards in a law that has experienced so much heated debate and so many amendments, and not least we are going to be punished, given that we have committed ourselves when we have entered the European Union, how we are actually going to do business. Therefore, Positive Slovenia will, of course, support this law and will not, of course, support the proposal that came from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u136	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 23. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, this is the Redecision on the Medicinal Products Act. We're moving on to a re-decision. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to adopt that law, the majority of all members of the assembly must vote, i.e. 46 or more. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 24. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the List of Candidates and Candidates for Minister and Minister of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're moving on to decision-making. In accordance with Rule 232 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the appointment of ministers and ministers shall be voted on by voting on the list of candidates and candidates for the Minister and Minister in full. Members and Members are also asked in this vote to check the functioning of the voting apparatus. I shall put to the vote the following proposal for a decision: [[...]] Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u137	Thank you so much for saying that. We will not support the list of candidates for ministers. With the proposal proposed by the President of the Government, nothing will change as regards the way this government works. How the Government works, you have noticed in the treatment and adoption of real estate law. Despite all the warnings, this law has been processed, validated, and we are now meeting with a whole range of people in administrative units on the Geodetic Board who are going there, protesting, correcting data and complaining about an inappropriate, unworthy dose. You said the dosage would only be a little higher than the previous building land tax. In fact, it's a few times bigger. As far as the fight against corruption is concerned, it remains only verbal, as long as good laws are proposed, as long as laws are proposed. When it is really necessary to decide on corruption and to penalise matters, sanction, no government or coalition take any important step. You also said that the foundations of the country were healthy. However, how will the state base be healthy if in one year you burdened Slovenian taxpayers with about 1,000 500 euros per family, with VAT, with real estate tax, with a change in cadastral income, with a change in tax benefits, with the introduction of new duties such as an energy card? If the family is not strong, if there are no good grounds, surely the country cannot have a good foundation. And these few people that you will now complete with your ministerial team – they can still be so good, but they cannot change the wind that leads this country towards the abyss of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the government of Alenka Bratušek. We will not support this proposal, as I said, because there are no positive signals that could have happened. After all, you also ate a lot of things yourself; if I mention only the fiscal rule that you changed by changing the position of President of the Government, the position we entered together into the constitution. The President of the Government has taken possession of this matter. It is, however, one who has failed to draw up an implementing law for six months and even operates in an unconstitutional state. In short, we estimate that the situation of perfection will not change, that the situation will continue to go as badly, and we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u138	Thank you. I put to the vote the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly appoints Dr. Alenko Trop Skaza as Minister of Health, Method Dragonjo for the Minister of Economic Development and Technology and Gorazd Žmavc as Minister without a department for relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian national community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 18. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 18.]] On the basis of the outcome of the vote, I find that the Minister and Minister of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are appointed. I invite the Minister and the Minister to occupy the seats dedicated to the Government in the Chamber. / applause/ Allow me to congratulate the Ministers and Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on their appointment and to wish them a successful ministerial duty. And then there's the oath. I ask the newly appointed Minister and Minister to swear before the National Assembly in accordance with Article 113 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Dr. Alenka Trop Skaza, Minister of Health, will be the first to swear.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u139	Your Honor! I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u140	The following will be sworn by Mr Dragonja Methods, Minister for Economic Development and Technology.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u141	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u142	The following will be sworn by Mr Gorazd Žmavc, Minister without a department for Relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u143	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u144	On the basis of Article 14 of the Law on Members, the National Assembly shall determine: 1. As Tina Komel has ceased to carry out the Minister's current affairs, she is now acting as a Member in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members. 2. In accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members, as of today, he shall cease to act as a Member of the Magi. Mr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, who served as Ambassador instead of Tina Komel at the time she served as Minister. Let me get some mags, too. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček thank you for the work done in the National Assembly and I wish her well in the future. / applause/ I hereby conclude this agenda item. Ladies and gentlemen, we still have a fourth item on the agenda, so I would like to ask your attention. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, that's a very good suggestion of a recommendation for the immediate removal of the consequences of the ice catch. Dear colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats, because we are continuing with the 4th item of the agenda. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted by a group of 26 Members and Members, with first signed by Jozet Tank. With regard to this proposal, the group of 26 Members and Members, with the first-signed Jozet Tank, requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the recommendation, I give the floor to the representative of the motioners to Mr Zvonk Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u145	All in attendance, all in attendance! Less than a month ago, or three weeks ago, Slovenia faced one of the worst natural disasters in a long period of time, the worst and biggest ice catch in our country ever. At the end of January, and even more prominently in early February, exceptional weather conditions prevailed in Slovenia. On Monday, 3 February, a number of schools, kindergartens and other institutions in the country as a whole or the bulk of the country were closed. Those who worked acted under strict conditions. In those days, the economy recorded a significant drop in production. Small and medium craft were most affected, which even after the establishment of emergency electricity supplies in the days following this capture could not be connected to overloaded electricity networks or household supplies. Similarly, agriculture is affected by the consequences. Many forests have been completely destroyed. Something similar applies to a number of permanent crops, orchards and other agricultural land. According to estimates made in the past days, damage in this segment alone is said to exceed EUR 200 million in agriculture. Over 500 thousand hectares of forests account for 40% of the area destroyed. The operation to be carried out by this ice catch will exceed a multi-year intervention and will exceed 5 million cubic metres in this year and in the following year. The worst result of this natural disaster was the disruption of electricity supply, which was also the most pressing problem in affected areas in Slovenia. In individual days, more than 120,000 customers were not supplied with electricity in different areas of electricity distribution. As early as February 12th, when we submitted this request for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, there were several thousand customers without electricity, without electricity from the network, and without electricity from aggregates. On the Infrastructural Committee, which considered the first damage assessment on infrastructure on 13 February, the Minister responsible for infrastructure or energy, said that the request for emergency meetings had been submitted. 2. There were still 172 major aggregates in operation. According to the competent authorities, many who are still supplied with electricity from aggregates will still depend on it for several months. Of course, the consequences would be much worse if many individuals were not immediately activated. Even in this natural disaster, it has proved to be Slovenia’s largest capital or the largest wealth. That is why, of course, the greatest recognition and thanks goes to many volunteers, especially firefighters, soldiers, members of the Civil Protection Service, as well as to workers of electrical and utility companies, and to all others who, in those days, have unselfishly stepped in to help with their work and to offer such or other assistance. As we know, Slovenia has also asked for assistance from neighbouring countries, and many members of the units from Austria, Slovakia, Germany and other countries have also participated in this rehabilitation. The extraordinary efforts of all individuals who have acted, while some are still operating on the ground, cannot, of course, undo the damage they have caused. If we want recovery to be rapid and effective, especially if we want economic infrastructure, especially energy and transport infrastructure, to be restored as soon as possible and to establish a normal situation, then of course all measures cannot be taken within existing legislation and within existing institutions. Measures, not all measures can be taken by mayors, cannot be adopted by ministers and cannot be taken by the Government itself, but certain measures must also be taken at the level of the National Assembly, through an interventional amendment of legislation to allow the consequences of this natural disaster to be addressed as quickly as possible in order to establish a normal situation. During that period, the Government adopted two operational measures, in addition to some recommendations, after this capture. The first was a measure that talked about reducing excise duties, mainly for diesel fuel, for aggregates, and the second was the release of EUR 317 thousand 599 from the first aid reserve in this ice catchment. In this case, it is, of course, in view of the damage that exceeds EUR 100 million, for some symbolic amount, which may also have sent a wrong signal to all those who have suffered damage in this accident, and in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group we are confident that specific figures, specific amounts, will have to be identified under this intervention law to remedy this damage. At the edge of the visit of the parliamentary group here in Ljubljana, which was on Monday, 3. 2. We addressed to the Government, as well as later on, the expectation that an intervention law would be adopted to allow formal grounds for effective remedy of the damage. By 12. 2. There was no specific response from the Government. For this reason, we have tabled a request to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, at which we anticipated that we would consider a set of measures taken, those already adopted, and those still to be adopted in the future, and a proposal for an intervention law, which we have also prepared and submitted in the main directions, have attached to this request for an extraordinary meeting. In this request, we have in particular expressed the expectation that the Government will inventory or describe the situation as soon as possible, in particular in the area of electricity supply and rail infrastructure, and on this basis establish the recovery priorities where, according to our behaviour or according to our assessment of the priority, two — first, rehabilitation and new building of energy infrastructure in areas where electricity is not provided from the network, i.e. in areas where users are still supplied from larger aggregates, and the reconstruction of railway infrastructure in areas of strategic interest for the Republic of Slovenia; in particular, the five corridors. We know that the Pivka-Borovnica route, as far as electricity is concerned, is completely destroyed, and in our view this part of the route needs to be restored as a matter of priority and a normal situation for normal transhipment, especially freight transport for the purposes of Port Koper. The law, which we have proposed to be adopted by the Government and to be adopted as soon as possible by an emergency procedure, should allow for the reduction of procurement procedures for the selection of situations to be determined by the Government and in respect of the choice of the most favourable bidder. Similarly, we have proposed services, as well as some other measures to enable rapid recovery. In this context, we have also proposed financial resources, in addition to insurance, from an emerging financial perspective 2007-2013, where to date we could have an amount that could be used and diverted to the recovery of this economic infrastructure, which is damaged, then an amount from the financial perspective 2014-2020, from the European aid funds and from the European Investment Bank's loans. As part of this set of measures and this bill, we have come from the fact that we must not repeat some mistakes in the past when laws have been passed in some cases, the effects of which have been long-lasting due to the overly complicated rules of the game and have not experienced those effects as if the rules of the game were clear and simple. For this reason, we have foreseen for measures in this area the preparation of a programme to remedy the effects of the freezing grip to be adopted by the Government no later than 10 days after the adoption of the law and in which the Government is to determine the type and extent of renewal of energy, rail, transport and other infrastructure to be restored or rebuilt, specifying the type of infrastructure and facilities to be built in order to prevent further threat to property and people due to the consequences of the ice catch or its recurrence. In this recovery programme, an assessment of the level of resources under individual measures to remedy the effects of the freezing of catches on goods and on individual beneficiaries in agriculture, the economy, the municipalities and on transport and energy infrastructure is expected to be determined by the estimated use of funds in 2014 and 2015, the areas most affected and in need of priority recovery should be identified as the list of beneficiaries for the recovery of the damage caused by the freezing of catches and the procedure for the allocation of funds or the reimbursement of damages. In this programme, we have foreseen that priority should be given to those two segments that I have already mentioned: the restoration of energy infrastructure where normal electricity supply is not yet provided and the restoration of rail infrastructure in an area of strategic importance for the Republic of Slovenia. This programme is intended to identify the operators of individual tasks and should be informed after the adoption of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. We have proposed that the control of implementation be exercised by a company owned by the DRI State in accordance with the principle of "in-house" and at competitive prices, and it has been determined that the Government should decide, within 30 days of the entry into force of the law, to use these funds in accordance with this programme at the latest. In order to make all this possible, we have, of course, proposed that certain provisions of the legislation should be amended, particularly in the part where the service is established. We have foreseen that this establishment of service in cases where this would be necessary in order to establish energy infrastructure or other traffic infrastructure interventions would be determined in a way that would be forced on the basis of the list set out in this programme. According to the measures listed in this Programme, this service would be established, and no later than 6 months after the completion of the renovation or construction, the damage to landowners resulting from the enforcement of the service provided for in this Act should be reimbursed. With regard to public procurement, we have proposed to apply the negotiated procedure without prior publication, to the set of such investments or operations that would be in this programme, and the audit procedures should be short. In these cases, the State Audit Commission is to take a priority decision no later than 3 days after receipt of the application. Simplification of the provisions concerning the carrier was proposed, then the exemption of cadastral income where the land concerned was affected, the write-off of the property tax, where the affected land and economic operators suffered greater damage and did not operate for days. The Law on the financing of municipalities in Article 21 should be amended in such a way as to provide additional funding for co-financing of investments in local public infrastructure in order to address the consequences of the freezing. The Fires Act is to be amended in such a way as to finally regulate the status of a voluntary firefighter and to provide voluntary operational firefighters with funding for additional health insurance for each day of the public fire service and additional pension insurance. This was in short this framework, for which we have proposed that the Government adopt it, complete it, complement it and on this basis come before this national assembly with the relevant law. This request was addressed by the Infrastructure Committee last Wednesday. For this reason, in our view, what we are dealing with today could already be dealt with earlier Thursday, but the government, as you know, has already adopted a proposal for a so-called intervention law which it has sent to the National Assembly following an emergency procedure and which we will consider tomorrow morning at the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee. In summary, the intention of the Slovenian Democratic Party's drafters has been achieved. In particular, we wanted to encourage the Government to ensure that, in these circumstances, when it is important to act quickly, those formal frameworks must be provided as soon as possible to ensure that this rehabilitation of damaged infrastructure and everything else can run faster and in some optimal contexts, and that they will also be given both to the forest management agency and to all others who will have to take care of the rehabilitation in the forests and the rehabilitation of other agricultural land in the coming months and years, appropriate grounds for their operation. When we look at government law, I can say that this is a good basis for tomorrow's debate, but we see in it one big flaw, and that is operationality. If this law is not amended in the operative part of the timetable, then it will not be good and will not help us do what we intended. That's why I'm inviting you all to complete it tomorrow on the board with the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u146	Thank you, too. The proposal was recommended at the 33rd urgent session of 19. 2. 2014 treated the Committee on Infrastructure and Space as a parent working body. As the Committee did not adopt the points of the proposal for a recommendation after the discussion, consideration of the proposal for a recommendation was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to President Sam Bevk to present the report to the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u147	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! At its 33rd urgent meeting on 19 February this year, the Committee on Infrastructure and Space considered the proposal for a recommendation on the early elimination of the effects of the ice catch submitted by the Group of Members and Members to the National Assembly for consideration, with the first signed by Jožet Tank. Mr Krivec gave an additional explanation on behalf of the applicants. He stressed that the main purpose of the applicant for the request for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly and the proposed recommendation was to point out that, in order to successfully remedy the consequences of the natural disaster which caused enormous damage to energy and transport infrastructure, in forests and in the economy, rapid action by the competent institutions is essential. He pointed out that the basis for such action was the immediate adoption of an intervention law, which should lay down the legal basis for determining the timing of the remedial action, the necessary resources and resources, the description of the works, the control over the implementation of the works and the manner and the extent of the damage in agriculture and the economy. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service was presented by Mira Palhartinger, who stressed that the proposed content of the recommendation does not depart from the constitutional starting points which oblige the National Assembly in the exercise of its supervisory function, according to the principles of the rule of law and the principle of the division of power. On behalf of the Government, Minister of Infrastructure and Space Samo Omerzel stressed that the Government had already appointed a working group on 12 February 2014 to coordinate activities in addressing the consequences of floods, high snow and acorn between 30 January and 10 February 2014. The task of the working group was to develop a proposal for necessary amendments to the laws in force or to draft a law on intervention measures to remedy the consequences of the ice catch. He also stressed that the intervention law was being prepared intensively. In conclusion, he said that some of the proposals proposed by the proposer of the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly were substantively correct and would, if possible, also be contained in the draft intervention law and in the proposals for amendments to the system laws. State Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, Mag. Tanja Strniša presented the situation in the forests in more detail after the natural disaster. It pointed out that it is estimated that 40% of all forests and 7 million cubic metres of wood have been damaged. Of these, 31 % of the roosters and 69 % of the leaves should be given special attention to damaged eels, which should be removed by mid-May this year in order to prevent the spread of hatchers. In the debate, the panellists highlighted some areas that they considered urgent to be addressed by intervention law. They stressed that, in order to avoid a long-term administrative procedure for the restoration and construction of transport and energy infrastructure facilities in the area of natural disaster, it should be considered to be a building for public benefit and that a service should also be established on land where it is essential to rebuild and build. Members of the coalition pointed out, among other things, that in the face of the problems faced by the Slovenian timber industry, how to make the most effective use of the massive quantities of fallen wood for the rehabilitation of this economic sector is needed to find solutions to their inclusion in the programme of public works in order to remedy the consequences of the ice catch. They stressed that the Government is actively preparing an intervention law to remedy the consequences of the ice catch, as well as to amend certain other system laws. In the light of the information provided, it is therefore not necessary to adopt decisions or recommendations imposing obligations on the Government in this respect. After the discussion, the Committee voted on all parts of the proposal together and did not adopt them. This concludes the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation on the parent body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u148	Thank you, too. In order to give an introductory explanation of the opinion of the Government, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mag. Bojan Kumru, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and honourable Members! It is no longer relevant to adopt a recommendation to the National Assembly that the Government determine the text of the intervention law. At its meeting on 20 February 2014, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a proposal for a law on measures to remedy the effects of the greed between 30 January and 10 February 2014. The draft law was prepared by a special working group formally appointed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 12. 2. 2014 and chaired by Samo Omerzel, Minister of Infrastructure and Space. As part of the preparation of the intervention law, the Working Group also examined in detail the proposal for recommendations made by the Group of Members and, as far as possible, legally and from the point of view of the existing legal system, upgraded and incorporated them into its proposal for an intervention law. The proposal provides for specific measures to remedy the effects of the acorn, relating to the provision of funds for the rehabilitation of economic infrastructure, the restoration of housing and other facilities, the restoration of agricultural land and the rehabilitation and restoration of forests, including temporary measures of active employment policy, and the rehabilitation and planting of cultural heritage parks, gardens and trees and the recovery of the consequences of damage in the economy. The draft law provides for the reimbursement of direct damage, the costs of interventions and measures to prevent an increase in harmful effects and the cost of assessing damage, with the budget of the Republic of Slovenia providing in 2014 for the first urgent removal of the consequences of greed from the budget reserve of EUR 13 million. The Act provides for temporary measures to remedy the effects of the acorn within that framework, as well as the simplification of construction and spatial procedures and the modification of the value of real estate on the basis of an assessment by the State and Regional Damage Assessment Commissions. Priority is also given to the processing of audit requests before the State Audit Commission, the implementation of sanitary cutting and other protection works where landowners have to allow transport or energy infrastructure operators access to land. The specific chapter is intended for measures to prevent the multiplication and suppression of pests and for the temporary programmes of active employment policy. The law also lays down the basis for the exemption or reduction of cadastral income and the reduction or write-off of contributions to insured persons on the basis of agricultural activities and who have suffered damage in the forest due to ice. In particular, the way of selling forest wood varieties is also regulated, where the consident can also make direct sales, thereby establishing a mechanism to ensure that the agricultural land fund, on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, ensures and verifys that the prices for buying wood are indeed the highest possible. With regard to the proposal by the Group of Members to complete the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, the existing Law on the Financing of Municipalities in Article 21 provides additional funding for investments in local public infrastructure and investments of particular importance for meeting the common needs and interests of the population of the municipality. In addition to that, the Government shall meet on 20. 2. 2014 also adopted a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Accidents. The proposed amendment to the law shall also consider a natural disaster to cause damage to housing buildings, cultural monuments and to agricultural holdings in forests and in matters, and the State authority or the municipality shall be entitled to measures to remedy accidents under this law. With regard to the proposal by Members to regulate the reduction of insurance premiums and tax exemptions for employers in order to provide funds for the insurance of operational firefighters and means for the preventive health checks of operational firefighters and voluntary operational firefighters of additional health insurance and pension insurance, this is already partially regulated by sectoral legislation. However, it is a matter of systemic issues that are more appropriate to be addressed in the Sectoral Fire Act. With regard to the proposal by Members to recommend to the National Assembly that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia immediately initiate the preparation of the programme to remedy the consequences of the ice catch, to clarify that the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia is for the protection and rescue of the 12th 2. 2014 adopted a Decision on the assessment of damage to things caused by floods, high snow and acorn between 30 January and 10 February 2014. The collection of applications must be completed by 14 March 2014 and entered into an online application called Ida. However, the Regional Damage Assessment Commissions must prepare a review by 21 March. The programme to remedy the consequences shall be adopted by the Government. It shall be submitted to it by the Ministry of the Environment if it has been previously confirmed by the Commission for the Elimination of the Consequences of Accidents and agreed by the Ministry of Finance. In the light of that procedure, the submission of a programme to remedy the consequences of a natural disaster due to greed at the end of March 2014 may be expected. Since the government is already rapidly preparing a programme to remedy the consequences of greed, this is also a recommendation [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] unnecessary. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u150	Thank you, too. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Daniel Krivec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u151	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to the Secretary of State, nice greetings to all colleagues and colleagues as well! We all probably agree that we have been hit by a great deal of natural damage in the past month. The findings are more or less similar to that of one of the biggest natural disasters affecting the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. It is increasingly evident that such an extent and duration of the gland were not foreseen in the operational documents for action by individual companies, as well as other state and local institutions dealing with the prevention and management of the consequences of natural disasters. This accident actually caused enormous damage to public infrastructure and indirectly caused a major economic downturn due to the failure of electricity supply due to the cut-off of road and rail connections. The economic damage to our situation is extremely high and may continue to increase unless we provide an intervention law for recovery as soon as possible. It is for the sake of supporting all the services that have done exceptional work in the initial moments to eliminate and reduce the consequences of capture, of course, we are talking about all actors, both firefighters, electric workers, civil protection representatives, volunteers, Slovenian military, representatives of road companies, railway operators and others who have done a great deal of work in these moments, despite the dangers they have faced. Their self - sacrifice is all recognition and commendation. In order to speed up the resolution of the problems, it is necessary to prepare measures to allow for a smooth and swift resolution of the consequences as soon as possible in the second phase, so a material recommended to the Government by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group was prepared as soon as possible for the adoption of the intervention law. The Government's initiative was also a draft intervention law to serve the Government as a draft for the preparation and upgrading of its intervention law. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we do not believe that all these extraordinary efforts, which have been invested in normalising the situation on the ground as soon as possible, due to the individual legal constraints that our legislation has put in place, have been put in place to the extent that there is no delay in the further resolution of the consequences and recovery. Therefore, on our part, the initiative has been given to both the Government and all institutions to prepare and adopt as soon as possible an intervention law that will actually solve the problems that occur in virtually all natural disasters when the stage of intervention is completed and we are in the recovery phase. Unfortunately, we do not have an order in our country of transition in law, so in all natural disasters in the Republic of Slovenia until now there has been a time gap, which, in practice in the field, in solving purely specific problems, has caused poor availability for those who carry out individual actions with users and, last but not least, the pressure on individual ministries and other institutions. The implementation of the measures can even be stopped due to a legal void. In order to avoid any difficulties that may arise in effectively addressing the further consequences of this natural disaster, we have proposed an intervention law as an initiative for those responsible to provide a legal basis for effective further recovery as soon as possible. In this initiative, we draw attention to the key things that the intervention law must contain, so that the consequences will be remedied as soon as possible, in order to arrive at a normal situation in the entire area where it has caused problems. In the initiative, we draw attention to areas that are crucial: regulation of the implementation of public procurement in order to ensure as quickly as possible procedures, arrangements for facilitation and simplification in the area of spatial legislation, which in our system can be a very serious obstacle to rapid recovery, since we are mostly dealing with long line facilities that affect a large number of land and also various environmental regimes. We believe that it is also a good time to regulate the status of firefighters in the intervention law. This was also noted by the high policy when visiting on the ground. We also note the necessity of amending the Law on Forests, the Real Estate Tax Act, the regulation of the area of cadastral income and some others. We propose to include in the intervention law the co-financing of local communities that have suffered the greatest harm in this context. Our initiative is aimed at helping and supporting the Government and all the structures that are concerned with tackling the consequences of the assumption that we are not in a situation where difficulties arise between intervention and the later recovery phase due to poor regulation. We therefore propose that you take our initiative in good faith and support it, upgrade it, and thus make it possible to provide an appropriate legal basis to reduce any possible consequences arising from this great natural disaster. Of course, we are pleased that quite a few of our initiatives have fallen to fertile ground and have been included by the Government in the proposal of its law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u152	Thank you. Mr Bevk alone will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u153	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! At its urgent meeting on 19 February 2014, the Infrastructure and Space Committee rejected the recommendations proposed. While we welcome the intention of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to make recommendations to accelerate the resolution of the consequences of the ice catch and greed, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is already solving the situation. The government has taken a responsible approach to resolving the situation, including by drafting an intervention law, even before the largest opposition party's parliamentary group has even proposed calling for an emergency meeting and adopting recommendations. Today we will spend a few hours to discuss the recommendations of the proposer for the early resolution of the effects of the ice catch, although we will meet at the Committee on Infrastructure and Space tomorrow morning and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment, in two days, on Wednesday, and will meet again at the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly and take concrete solutions to address the consequences of the natural disaster that hit us in early February, namely the Proposal for a Law on the Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Forests, with which we introduce a moratorium on the implementation of transport vehicles by 30 April 2015, thus facilitating the transport of damaged timber from damaged forests. On the agenda, we also have a proposal for a law on measures to remedy the effects of the acorn between 30 January and 10 February 2014, an intervention law regulating emergency intervention and remedial measures to remedy the consequences of the natural disaster. We also have on the agenda a bill supplementing the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Accidents, which allows for the implementation of the removal of the consequences of the ice catch. We have this on the agenda on Wednesday, specific legislative proposals for solutions prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The government reacted quickly and responsibly and approached to resolve the situation, thus making the call for this extraordinary meeting irrelevant. However, it should also be said that the Committee on Infrastructure and Space held a debate on this subject on Thursday, 13 February. The Committee then decided, inter alia, to support the Government's efforts to address the consequences of natural disasters, including the preparation of necessary legislative changes, in particular the proposal for intervention measures, and that the Committee calls on the Government to pay particular attention to energy and public transport infrastructure when adopting measures, namely railways, roads and cableways and related economic sectors. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we do not understand why today's meeting should discuss the proposal for recommendations for the early resolution of the consequences of the ice catch, in particular because the Committee on Infrastructure and Space, as a parent, has already rejected the recommendations proposed. On Wednesday, at the meeting of the National Assembly, when a substantive debate is held on the proposed concrete solutions, we will discuss this subject in a substantive way and we will also vote on it and adopt all the necessary laws. While the intervention law contains 13 million budgetary resources, this will not, of course, be sufficient to remedy this disaster. That is why we will also acquire the European Union's solidarity funds, and I hope that we will successfully draw on the favourable loans that we will obtain from the European Investment Bank and from the Council of Europe's Development Bank, EBRD, and of course Slovenian insurance companies will also have to contribute theirs. In doing so, as we have already done on the Committee on Infrastructure and Space, I would also like to thank and thank all the competent services, organisations, societies and volunteers for their self-sacrifice and non-self-sufficient assistance to the inhabitants in dealing with the consequences of the weather. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Ms Kristina Valenčič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u155	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present once again! During the last month, two events were able to unite Slovenians and Slovenians, such as the Olympic Games and the ice catch. Although they are quite different events, they have a lot of running points. Sacrifice, cooperation, perseverance, superhuman efforts, assistance to human beings and targeting the ultimate goal play a decisive role in both. Victory over himself and above nature. Both our Olympics and all volunteers, members of the Civil Protection and the Slovenian Armed Forces, employees of electricity companies in general, and all those who have participated and helped solve the problems that have been brought to the acorns and floods, deserve all our attention and thanks, and no doubt also adequate assistance from the state. A reader of Notranj-Kraški news wrote: "But after every admiring, the dust lays. We have seen the sun and the light, and every day it serves us something good, life returns to us as we know it." Because of its size – 80% of the country's area affected, the largest in known Slovenian history – has shown that systems are working and that people can rely on each other, that solidarity among people is still alive. Nature has again warned us how small we are compared to it, which is why it deserves proper respect. Our system of protection against natural and other disasters is based on volunteering. Many accidents without volunteers could not be managed because we do not have enough professionals. There were over 60,000 people on the ground, most firefighters and employees of electric companies, utilities and road companies, and over 5,000 members of the Slovenian Army. Some of them are still carrying out their mission on the ground, as extraordinary floods in the Mountain field require new interventions. The State also responded, first through the Government of Slovenia Protection and Rescue Administration, and a few days after the arrest, a special government working group was also launched, which was set up at the initiative of the President of the Government and which has also prepared a proposal for an intervention law in a very short time, a proposal covering not only measures for the rehabilitation of ice captures, as proposed by the SDS Group, but also solutions related to intervention, rehabilitation and prevention. The opposition dealt mainly with measures for recovery and assistance only and neglected real financial resources for the proposed measures. Of course, the government had to take a bite out of this tough nut, and with a clear commitment to consolidate public finances and reduce public debt on the one hand, and understanding the pressures of individuals and economies affected by this natural disaster, it has put in place balanced measures. I am confident that another good solution will be revealed during the mere discussion of the intervention law, which we will jointly support. Slovenia has not yet been able to remedy the consequences of past natural disasters caused by floods, droughts, reptiles, windstorms and the impact of various areas of our country, we have already suffered the greatest natural disaster. Experts point out that there will be more in the future of similar extreme natural events. Therefore, there is a need for serious consideration as to whether our escape system of Civil Protection and the Slovenian Armed Forces can be adequately adapted, optimized and our savings directed towards volunteering. In the current economic crisis, this ice grip has further made the situation more difficult for many companies. In the Civil Gazette, we want more done in this area. In particular, I am referring to the provision of a normal business environment and, in the case of measures to remedy the consequences, also to the reimbursement of the additional costs incurred by self-sustainment of electricity and the participation of workers in interventions. In this direction, our initiatives will also be presented when we consider government intervention law at the Committee's meeting tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u156	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u157	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen! As my predecessors have already pointed out, we witnessed a bad month ago the greatest natural disaster in the history of our country, which crippled most of the country and literally brought the inhabitants of many of Slovenia back to the ice age. The remaining one-fifth of the population was out of electricity, many areas were literally cut off from the rest of the country, damage to the electricity network and the transport infrastructure, mainly rail, and exceeded the worst black scenario that we are not even talking about damage in Slovenian forests. Whether someone has acted properly or not at a certain point or whether the Government has responded quickly enough to the situation, we do not intend to define ourselves in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. There will be plenty of time for such evaluations in the future. It is now particularly important that we put in place several times the said river, namely that each crisis is also an opportunity. So now is the best time to think strategically about our future, which things we want to change. For example, we need to start thinking about how to protect ourselves in the future in the event of a failure of electricity to such an extent. In the Slovenian People's Party, we also see as one of the solutions to this in the forest biomass cogeneration system for preventive protection in the event of a large power outage, where this is economically justified. Putting electrical cables into the ground would also reduce the burden of our landscape with ugly wooden drugs, of course, where possible and technically possible. The acceleration of the establishment of regional wood centres is also important, as we must not allow the decline of the wood that lies in our forests after this capture. We hope that the Slovenian Government, within the framework of the operational working groups, will overcome all scenarios and act within its remit to enable forest owners to quickly clean forests and to properly organise the purchase of forest forest varieties. Certain solutions from the proposed intervention law, which we will deal with on Wednesday, point in part in this direction, but in our opinion they are too ambitious, but more about this law in the coming days. Members of the Slovenian People's Party would like once again to thank all individuals who have volunteered to help their fellow citizens to deal with the consequences, especially firefighters, members of the Civil Protection Party, soldiers, other volunteers and workers of the electricity distribution companies who have literally burned themselves in impossible weather conditions and thus helped people in distress. They have proved that solidarity in our society is one of the most important values, even though at times we feel that it is already forgotten. The rapid and effective action of these organisations is proof of how important the system is the Civil Protection System of the Republic of Slovenia, which breathes with and with people in the local environment. The lions' share of quality action undoubtedly represents highly qualified members of voluntary firefighters' societies who, at their rate of response, operationality and efficiency, have once again demonstrated that the system of protection against natural and other elementary disasters without them cannot and must not exist. For we must not pretend to be rescued by professionals. It is therefore appropriate to appeal at this point again to competent authorities that, by means of systematic measures such as the exemption from value added tax in the purchase of equipment, they shall approach the improvement of the situation of voluntary firefighters and civil protection personnel and all those who assist them at such times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u159	Dear Vice President, Your Honor and Your Honor! Between 30 January and 10 February 2014, the Republic of Slovenia was affected by a natural phenomenon in the form of an acorn. It has caused one of the most extensive adverse events in recent decades. Practically all social, economic and natural areas were affected. Electricity supply was nearly halted everywhere, making daily life difficult for most of the population in affected areas. Public transport has been greatly compromised, transport connections have been cut off, and companies have been confronted with production disruptions. The worst consequences have been suffered by Slovenian forests, where it will take decades to recover. Economic infrastructure, especially energy and transport, will also feel the consequences of the capture for a very long time, as it will take several years to rebuild. Many have not recovered from previous natural disasters, but they have been hit by a new one. All those who love their homeland at least a little, with a heavy heart, look at destroyed homes, forests, roads, and, finally, suffering people who have lost their homes in which they have invested years of work and denial. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we fully understand the objectives of today's extraordinary meeting candidates and support them in this regard, but we cannot agree with the indications that the applicants of this point are committed to the Government if they have not responded in time to the fact that they should immediately issue an intervention law and so on. The fact is that the Government had already taken a thorough look at the resolution of the crisis caused by natural disasters two days before the proposal was tabled. As with all important decisions, the planning of measures to remedy the consequences of natural capture also requires a thorough reflection on the priorities of recovery, the source of financial resources for recovery and similar solutions, as we can do more harm than good through reckless moves. At the same time, we believe that damage has not yet ended, as many areas are facing flood threats and some are already flooded, so the final assessment of damage will be much greater than it is now. Otherwise, the government has already drawn up an intervention law on measures to remedy the effects of the acorn, with which it devotes the first million to remedy the consequences. The basic objective of the proposed law is to implement the restoration of economic infrastructure and forests as soon as possible and to reimburse the beneficiaries as soon as possible. We will talk more about this law at the next extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. In the DeSUS Group, we are also concerned about something else, and again it has turned out that we are not prepared to face the consequences of natural disasters in Slovenia. While we have not yet remedied the consequences of the previous floods or even the effects of the 2004 earthquake in Posača, we are already facing new disasters and new damage. Obviously, there is something very wrong in the disaster prevention and response system, and so far no composition of the government has been able to identify the right and effective formula for the proper organisation and functioning of the disaster relief system involving the military, firefighters, civil protection and other structures. In the DeSUS Group, we want to learn from past mistakes and to establish an effective disaster prevention system as soon as possible and an even more effective response system, because we cannot rely forever on solidarity, which fortunately still unites our people, but the country must also provide appropriate conditions for promoting and developing volunteering to support professional protection and rescue services. Also in the DeSUS Group, we offer recognition and thanks for all the sacrifice work in difficult conditions for firefighters, workers of the Elektro Economy of Slovenia, the military, railways, travelers, volunteers and all those who helped people in distress. Thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u160	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u161	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the Government, fellow Member and fellow Members! In early February, Slovenia was affected by the weather of catastrophic dimensions. The snow and the acorn caused enormous damage to electricity and transport infrastructure, with more than 250,000 citizens without electricity for several days. Only in such situations do we realize our powerlessness on the one hand and the strength of the natural forces on the other. However, such situations also reveal the value of mutual assistance. Once again, voluntary firefighters and Civil Protection were shown to be self - sacrificing and unselfish. The damage to infrastructure was estimated at at least EUR 120 million, 40% of the forests were damaged and more than 7 million cubic metres of wood was damaged, which will permanently mark Slovenian forests. Such a situation is dictated by the rapid and appropriate response of the Government and other competent institutions. Unfortunately, we note that the government reacted quite late and milky, and the individual areas were also without electricity and transport roads for several days. Only international assistance with aggregates has provided the people with the necessary electricity. We have called on the Government to draw up an immediate list of intervention measures to help people in affected areas. In the New Slovenia Group, we support the proposal for a recommendation made by the SDS Group, and we regret that the members of the coalition rejected it at the hearing at the home work body. Although the Government's proposal for an intervention law includes specificities in determining cadastral income or in determining the tax base on agricultural or forestry activities, Christian Democrats propose that for plots of forest land on which the sanitary section is essential due to greed, any percentage of the ten-year possible cut within 10 years of the natural disaster should be reduced by the percentage of damage identified by the forest institution. This measure should therefore not apply only to those forests that are so damaged that the emergency sanitary urine exceeds 50% of the 10-year possible cut as proposed by the Government, but to all damaged forests. Preservation of carriers until 30 April 2015, for which we have been warning in Novi Slovenija all the time, that non-life obstacles are an obstacle to farmers and forest owners, we understand as something the Government must do. More than that, we should stop them immediately, but permanently. Christian Democrats advocate a different way of tracking wood that will not bring additional bureaucracy and will actually be feasible. In the New Slovenia Group, we propose to upgrade today's proposal so that the tax write-off for damaged forests and damaged or destroyed infrastructure facilities is valid for years from 2014 to 2020 and that the tax write-off on immovable property should apply to economic operators for as many years as the full days have suffered the loss of production. At the same time, we note that the adoption of the proposed amendment to the Real Estate Tax Act, which Nova Slovenije has already submitted before the ice age, is essential, namely the exemption from the payment of the property tax for firehouses owned by voluntary firefighting companies. At least we owe the firefighters the fact that the state renounces the criminal taxation of firehouses and does everything necessary to regulate the status of volunteer firefighters, while at the same time allowing the military to participate more quickly and more easily in the operation of the protection and rescue system, including the establishment of a special rescue and engineering unit of the Slovenian Army. We call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to include in the intervention law provisions under which only half of the amount for RTV in February should be charged to all those who were or were not in this ice grip, and the provisions under which the local radio and television stations which suffered damage to infrastructure should be provided with immediate financial assistance. At the same time, we call on the Government to take into account also the proposals and recommendations of the Forest Owners' Union for the most effective rehabilitation of forests by the acorn, which have been submitted to both the Government and the individual responsible ministries in relation to them.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u162	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group, Positive Slovenia will be represented by Mrs Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! On 12 February this year, the SDS Group submitted a request to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly with proposals for measures to remove and remedy the effects of the ice catch as soon as possible by means of a proposal for an intervention law. They point out in the request that the National Assembly should, by means of an interventional amendment of legislation, allow the consequences for the establishment of a normal situation to be addressed as quickly as possible. The SDS should have decided to convene an extraordinary meeting after the Government had sent a proposal for an intervention law and there was no response from the Government. Furthermore, the proposed measures proposed by the SDS would not be mentioned as they are explained in detail in the request for an extraordinary meeting and would ask the convocations of these extraordinary meetings what the convening of the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly is for, as the working bodies of the National Assembly have already addressed this issue at the beginning of this month, namely, the Defence Committee and the Committee on Infrastructure and Space as the home working bodies for protection and rescue and public infrastructure on 11 and 13 February. Not to mention the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment, which dealt with this issue in the wake of the amendment of the Law on Forests on 10 February. It was not until 12 February that a reference was made and a request was made for a reference to this meeting. Thus, within one or half of February, we meet for the fourth time at the various working bodies and plenary meetings of the Assembly, followed by another extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on Wednesday, 26 February, and before that morning by the competent working bodies, both the Infrastructure and Space Committee and the Committee on Agriculture, where we will consider the government law on the elimination of the consequences of hunger and the already mentioned amendment to the Forest Act. In doing so, let me point out that both the Defence Committee and the Infrastructure and Space Committee have already adopted a number of decisions at these meetings that have supported the Government's efforts to address the consequences of the natural disaster, including the preparation of the necessary legislative changes, particularly the enforcement of intervention measures. In addition, the two competent committees called on the Government to pay particular attention to public energy and public transport infrastructures – railways, roads, cableways – and related economic sectors when adopting measures. The government has therefore already responded to all the recommendations made by the working bodies of the National Assembly, and in the previous week it has also adopted the so-called intervention law or the law on the elimination of the effects of greed, and has included in the text of the Law an intervention measure related to the transport of forest forest ranges to ensure the transport of forest roads and the removal of timber that endangers the lives and property of people. The proposal for an intervention law to remedy the effects of greed, however, brings a number of measures by which the Government wants to provide budgetary resources and remove obstacles to procedures that could make it difficult to implement urgent measures. In order to facilitate the resolution of the consequences of this natural disaster and to ensure security, we have therefore acted with immediate and timely action by coalition partners. On 12 February 2014, the Government set up a working group to address the effects of floods, high snow and acorns, which under the leadership of the Minister of Infrastructure and Space immediately began to review existing measures and prepare existing measures to remedy the damage. On 20 February, however, the Government had already passed a law to remedy the consequences of the acorn or previously mentioned intervention law. Therefore, in Positive Slovenia we also did not support any of the proposed conclusions submitted by the citing party or SDS. What, then, is the added value of this extraordinary session today? I think that the essence of the SDS requirement has been best hit by a member of our Group Positive Slovenia, colleague Jerko Čehovin, who wrote in response to the request that the Government has taken the consequences quickly and with all available means and that therefore the criticism of SDS in this regard is not justified in his opinion. That differences in the opposition's approaches are possible and that they can act constructively, the Slovenian People's Party's Group, which, together with us or coalition partners, has submitted a request for an extraordinary meeting, which, as already said, will be held on Wednesday, 26 February, or tomorrow at 8.30 p.m., we will begin the meetings of the competent committees. The purpose of the extraordinary meeting is to adopt the new Forest Law as soon as possible, which will, inter alia, help to remedy the consequences of the February capture. The consideration of the bill at the regular February session, as envisaged, is recognised. The intervention measure must be taken as soon as possible. This extraordinary session will also address the government's so-called intervention law. The call for an extraordinary meeting is proof that we can also act constructively and in the best interests of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In Positive Slovenia we are convinced that the ice touch should not become the object of political struggle, it must not be the object of distinction and competition, but a reminder to everyone that it is necessary to act creatively. Otherwise, we probably all agree that, at the time of recovery, red tape obstacles must be removed and procurement procedures and spatial policy simplified. In addition, it is essential to obtain new or additional financial resources under as favourable conditions as possible in order to address the situation and to consider any reallocation of cohesion or European funds, where possible. Of course, part of the funds should be obtained from insurance, and discussions should be held with the European Commission, the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on aid and favourable loans and on moratoriums on the repayment of the principal of our debt. In Positive Slovenia, we propose that today's meeting, the SDS Group, should be closed as soon as possible and that energy and time should be saved for the consideration of tomorrow's government intervention law, which was adopted on 20 February by the Government and will be discussed tomorrow by the competent infrastructure and space committee and the competent agricultural committee. In connection with this debate today, the members of our parliamentary group will renounce, but will constructively discuss tomorrow at the meetings of working bodies and on Wednesday, 26 February, when we will have an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly and discuss government intervention law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u164	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are now having a general debate between Members and Members. Mr Zvonko Černač applied for the floor on behalf of the proposaler.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Well, I didn't mean to, but it must be said that if anyone has politicized this natural disaster, Mrs Brunskole, it is your Member Jerko Čechovin, rudely, primitively. When he was supposed to support his mayor, he spat over him. When Postojna was in the most difficult situation, he used a microphone in this national assembly to politicize people’s plight. And by spitting over the mayor, he also spat through all those volunteers, electric workers and all the others who worked hard night and day, that in a good week the congregation, which did not have one socket on the electricity network or on the aggregates, had established over a hundred aggregates back on the network. Now, as for our proposal and this extraordinary session. So, despite the fact that Positive Slovenia did not support what we have proposed, it supported what happened later on in committee only for the debate. And the purpose of what we wanted was achieved. It was said that we submitted this request on February 12th. It was also said that on the same day the Government appointed a working group, chaired by the Minister responsible for Infrastructure and Energy. It was also said that the first position was changed as to whether or not the Government would come with an intervention law and whether it would come this month or the following month. The latest information, which was by 12 February, was that this law, if considered at the March meeting, would be too late in our opinion. And this was the purpose for which we wanted to speed up the treatment of this situation, and I think that we have all been successful together, even though you have not supported these conclusions, because when this debate started in the National Assembly, of course, the activities in the preparation of this legislation have accelerated. The committees, the three that dealt directly or indirectly with what happened after this ice catch, talked in particular about the situation, about the situation that happened after that, says one inventory, the first inventory of the situation was on the table, but we have not heard anything about concrete measures and what the National Assembly must do to make this resolution quicker. And that, of course, was the purpose of this proposal and the purpose of this extraordinary session. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are pleased that the Government responded quickly, that last week it adopted the text of this law and placed it in the procedure of urgency, and that we will decide on this law tomorrow at the home committee and on Wednesday at the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. It must be said, however, that there is a lot missing in this text, and from all of us, from our reasonableness and from our ability to listen, of course, it will be important whether we will all adopt a law together that will also be operational and will actually work or not. A number of things are unfortunately missing in this law and are not talking about how the recovery of this state of affairs in the area of this infrastructure, which should initially be repaired, and in the area of the rehabilitation of agricultural land and forests, could be optimally rapid. I initially said in my position that the worst thing would be to adopt a law that would not be an effective tool for us to operationally implement. It was said that we did not foresee financial resources in the proposal for this law, for which we proposed that the Government adopt it. Of course, we have foreseen them, and we have also mentioned them in the order of order, and I have repeatedly said that now would be the time, for example, for the government to have on the committee tomorrow, because it has these data, a precise scan of the current financial perspective projects, which were recently assessed that they would not be possible to implement and that the funds at risk amounting to more than EUR 200 million. If this is the case, then appropriate decisions must be taken by the Government to redistribute these funds for the rehabilitation of this damaged infrastructure and to obtain appropriate consent, if necessary, by the European Commission, but there is no obstacle that this would not already happen. And I said what we have also heard is that the aim, in one part, where longer-term measures are concerned, is to allocate funds from the future financial perspective, which we also support, and, in the extreme case, when these resources are not sufficient, the EIB has also borrowed. So that's what it was supposed to be. Why did we propose an operational programme to be justified by this law, to be adopted by the Government and on the basis of which these rehabilitations are to be carried out? Because we see through this quickest possibility of actual recovery. You need to know that the electricity distributions, individual infrastructure companies already carry out these procedures, do not wait, the procedures are already open because if they were not, then people would be on those 172 aggregates another year without energy from the network. These procedures are already underway, and this legislation could speed up these procedures, as it will be complicated in the event that an operator wants to install an underground cable instead of lines, and will deviate from the current route and will run into a land where he will not be able to obtain service for the installation of this cable. If this obstacle does not exist, if the law relaxes it, then it will be possible to do so very quickly, but otherwise not, and now is the opportunity to do so. Since there has been no funds for operators so far, if there has been no will so far, this will now be done, resources will be provided, and many parts of the network, at least 20 kilovolts, will be able to be built into the ground, which will be a significantly better solution in the long term than the present one. A concrete example, for example: because he had no asset distributor in the part of the city where cable was built when the municipality was building complete infrastructure, he did not lay the underground cable and the infrastructure was built there two years ago. The public lighting financed by the municipality was on the subway and the households were not. Of course, this has made the fallout so much bigger than it would have been necessary to be in this position, and it is probably now the right time to allow all of this, by allowing these formal mechanisms to relax, of course, in respect of private property and in compensation for this service, but in parallel, or by the fact that these rehabilitations are carried out in such a way. And this is one of these proposals in this law, which is partly summed up in government law, we think is not the most fortunate and will not allow this purpose, which I believe we all want to achieve together, without change. Then what we wanted to achieve as a priority through this set is the rehabilitation of the Pivka-Borovnica track. We know, the fifth corridor, Luka Koper, the transshipment – they are now driving diesel locomotives on this route, passenger traffic is taking place by buses, which is of course all very burdensome for passengers, especially very costly for Slovenian railways and reduces the possibility of transshipment. Here, in our view, recovery must be rapid, priority, and the amendment of the Public Procurement Act, which is in the process, will also be possible to resolve this problem, but in these cases we believe that a clear provision in this intervention law would have to be adopted for the set of these measures, which constitute this rapid recovery. For in this position of the Ministry of Finance, which discusses when the award of urgent public contracts can be used without prior publication, the Ministry of Finance points out that these provisions of the law can be applied exceptionally and in the event of a critical assessment of the circumstances of an individual case. This means that you know that the contracting authorities will not be able to do so because in one year they will receive an audit of the Court of Auditors, or I do not know who, and they will be responsible if they do not apply these provisions correctly, and it is necessary to remove these uncertainties and clearly write that in all these cases the procedure is the same and that they can serve it, which still means the choice of the lowest bidder, competition and everything else. However, without all those mechanisms that make the selection process difficult. The government foresees €13 million in this first financial scheme, which will be sufficient for these urgent first measures, but not for everything else, and I believe that other mechanisms will be used in the next steps, at least as regards infrastructure. There's something else we'd like to draw your attention to. This law refers to a period of 30. One to ten. 2. And nowhere is what happened because of this acorn — the floods. Nowhere. We believe that this segment should also be covered under this law, because the damage after these floods will also be large, significant, and the removal of this damage will also be long-term, so that this part applies to the consideration of tomorrow's meeting of the Committee and then to the adoption at the National Assembly on Wednesday that these things should be treated in an equal manner because of this natural catch. No, they didn't happen on their own, but they're inseparably linked to that acorn. As for the exemption of businesses, people, the economy that was affected. We didn't know how to tax forests until this year. We know them this year. We know what's going on with this property tax. It is highly likely that it will be very difficult to implement this year as it was adopted. And at the very least, in this case, people and the economy need to get in the way. If there has been no such tax so far, there is no obstacle to not being written off now, given the damage that has occurred on these properties, and given that everyone will have to invest their enormous assets, even though they will be able to get some of it refunded so that they can recover this damage. This is also why we do not understand why these companies are terminated in the law until April 2015. We believe that this system needs to be simplified as much as possible and must continue, not just for one year. Some local communities have been extremely affected, both in the field of infrastructure and in the field of individual activities, and without specific provisions in this law there will be no basis for their proper treatment. And here is the part where we differ between what the Government proposes and what we propose. We believe that in this part it is necessary to make it possible to deal with those who have suffered enormously, not least when we are talking about volunteers and firefighters. There is probably something that needs to be done in this area. It is probably necessary to channel more resources and energy into people and less into new cars. Because nothing helps us with the latest vehicle for 200 000 euros, if people do not have basic conditions or if they are not paid at least at the time of intervention, and if they do not have some normal satisfaction or if they even have problems with employers because they do not leave them for intervention. And now it's time for these things to work out. Probably, even within existing means, with the right direction, this matter can be regulated and directed towards greater support for people, their personal protection, the regulation of their status, and a little less emphasis on what may not be the most necessary and most necessary in all cases. However, I am not talking about the need to reduce activities in this area, but, of course, it is necessary to behave rationally and accordingly to direct things. In spite of the fact that we are considering this proposal today for an extraordinary meeting on recovery measures and not last week when this could have happened, we believe that this purpose, which we have proposed, has been achieved on Thursday, when we have had an extraordinary meeting. Finally, it must be acknowledged that the Government has taken quite a few of these guidelines into account in its work. And I believe that we will be able to reach them further through the debate on the parental committee in this direction, so that we can further improve them and improve them more.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mrs. Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have one procedural proposal or I would like to point out, procedurally, that our colleague Jerko Čehovin, who is not here now, has been exposed in the debate to explain certain facts relating to the settlement in Postojna in this great natural disaster in which they took the matter into the hands of the people, as the media said, but I am sure that he will be able to explain this on Wednesday in the consideration of the government intervention law. I would also like to say procedurally that several times it has been pointed out how the calendar of meetings and meetings of working bodies in connection with the natural disaster took place. We know that the first meeting was already held on 10 February, the Committee on Agriculture, where the Law on Forests was dealt with, on 11 February, with a meeting of the Defence Committee. On the same day, a meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and Space was convened, which was then held on 13 February. The convening of this meeting, for which we now have an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, was given a day later on February 12th. All I'm saying is that people who listen to us don't get the timing wrong. We will certainly be able to discuss a lot of government intervention law tomorrow and tomorrow, and I would like the coalition and the opposition to accept it as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u168	Thank you very much. This wasn't exactly a procedural proposal, maybe a replica. However, we continue the debate. Mag. Katarina Hochevar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u169	Thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, a good evening to all present! In the first 10 days of February, Slovenia suffered one of the biggest natural disasters, which some have estimated to be the most damaging event in recent decades. Some experts say that this damage will amount to between €300 million and €500 million, and indeed it seems that the budget reserve is 13 million and 20 million coins from the European Solidarity Fund, so I hope that Minister Cuffer will succeed in negotiations with the European Investment Bank and the Development Bank in Europe. At the same time, I would point out that this natural disaster has occurred to us, with many outstanding accounts since the previous natural disasters. After the floods of 2010, which hit us in Zasavje, the country has not yet recovered everything it promised not to talk about beaches, winds and other matters. They say you meet a friend in an accident, and in this accident we have learned, as some have already stressed, that we can always count on the sacrifice and solidarity of the Slovenian nation. At least in some areas, this gland lasted until 10 February. On 12 February, the Government appointed a working group chaired by Mr Samo Omerzel, Minister of Infrastructure and Space. And it's been 20 years. 2. The government has passed an intervention law, which is earlier than in 10 days. And if anything, Minister Omerzel must be acknowledged that in this case he did as he was used to, or as he was doing in the economy — quickly, efficiently and rationally. On Wednesday we will consider the intervention law, the Law on Forests and also the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Accidents. Next week, we have two public procurement laws on the agenda, which we are also correcting or revamping because of this natural disaster. If we pull it all together now, we can say 5 laws in 10 days, and I really think that there are some criticisms about operationality or that the government has not reacted in time, but they are not in place. However, it is of course the fact that this working group must continue its activities, as well as with regard to the description of the damage, to be operational and responsive to programmes that need to be implemented for the flood area as well. I think that when nature speaks in such a disastrous way, we must silence the politicians and step together. Therefore, I will only say about this matter that I believe in cooperation, in that we will listen to each other on Wednesday and tomorrow on the committees and accept, if necessary, the appropriate amendments to the package of these laws so that the consequences on infrastructure, agricultural land, forests and individuals can be resolved as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u170	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u171	Good evening! If I start with the words of my colleague, Hočevar, who says that we must stand together and cooperate – I absolutely agree with this, but today's meeting already shows that the coalition has huge problems if an issue is proposed by the opposition and that there is always a prestigious fight. Would it not be better if the coalition proposed a more systematic solution, but always argue that what the opposition has proposed is not good and so on. In short, I will not swim into meaningless things, but it is typical of this Parliament and of the work that there is always a problem, who proposes, but not what the content is. Unfortunately, too in Slovenia, too many times things move forward only when something unusual is done, unfortunately even when natural disasters occur. Only then is there a willingness in politics and in the wider community to move forward in some areas. And one such is certainly regulating the status of firefighters. Today firefighters are the largest intervention force, we do not have the most numerous in Slovenia, nor do we have the better organized force. They develop from conventional fire extinguishers, increasingly into a force or unit for all kinds of intervention and dealing with natural disasters. Of course, firefighters from all sides receive much praise and so is, but in all of this more than 20 years of independent Slovenia's history, things move much slower when regulating their status and do not follow all the praises they receive. Recently, last weekend, I attended the general assembly of the Voluntary Fire Company of Gerec village, where we gathered quite a number of firefighters and we also considered what else could be done to improve the status of firefighters. One thought translated everything, and that is: if ever, today is the right time to further upgrade the status of the firefighter. Today, firefighters have the reputation, the public and the politics are in favor of them, and if we do not take a step forward with even better firefighter status, then we will never do so. One of the important steps in regulating the status of firefighter has certainly been taken in 2010. Thus today, operating firefighters, for their absence, their employers, get some compensation if volunteer firefighters, who are operational firefighters, are in action, but you know, all too often it gets complicated that employers are unloved with the multi-day absence of their workers who are in action with their fire company. It is therefore very appropriate to consider that the status of a firefighter would be enhanced by paying employers to hire operational firefighters so that, if they were an operational firefighter, this advantage in employment would, for example, be that employers would pay smaller contributions in order to have smaller costs with such employees. This would be such a proactive approach to regulating the status of firefighters. I am sure there will be a thousand arguments why this cannot be settled today. One of the important reasons for the government coalition will certainly also be the financial situation and available financial resources, but if we look at things in the long term, then firefighters are the only force that can help Slovenia in the face of wider natural disasters, and more than firefighters will have this status, easier and better Slovenia in any future natural disasters. For this reason, I really hope that there will not be a prestigious battle at the forefront of this issue, but that we will together find a solution that will take another step forward in regulating the status of firefighters.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mr. Robert Hrovat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u173	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all those who are still in the hall and insist! I think that on the agenda there is an extremely important topic, an extremely important topic, which touches on a large, really large number of Slovenes and Slovenes. I'd only say something to my respectable colleague Renati Brunskole. 12. 2. When the Slovenian Democratic Party tabled a proposal for recommendations and a draft intervention law, there was neither the spirit nor the hearing of any intervention law on the part of the Government. Do you know what the minister of the Jews said on television at the time? I listened to him, and he said that the intervention law would only be in place after the damage assessment, which we need a few weeks to do. That was the day we tabled an intervention bill. So our purpose was certainly good, just, and, of course, well - intentioned. See, the extraordinary efforts of all individuals who have been on the ground or some are still, cannot conceal this fact that the measures taken so far by the Government have been insufficient, too late and incomplete. We expected it to take immediate action. It has been waiting and waiting, and in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are known to be able to react very quickly and we have reacted. If we were in power, we would react as quickly as possible, and I think that this proposal we put into the procedure was certainly a good incentive for the Government to start with individual measures and approaches as they were. I would first touch here on the areas of agriculture, forestry, which is also an area covered by the Group of Members. In fact, we have proposed to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment to prepare a budget rebalancing by providing funds for the restoration of forest roads, trains and, of course, for the rehabilitation of forests. Perhaps you remember that – now just three months ago – in the Slovenian Democratic Party we will propose a change to the Forest Act. Our amendment to the law went in the direction of simplifying procedures, reducing penalties, not burdening the owners to transport timber for their own needs, not needing carriers. The law has certainly followed the European Union regulations on traceability of wood varieties, and it is a shame that this law has not been adopted. It's a real shame. Because if we accepted that at the time, this moment would be a law that would not require any carriers, we would only need a transport charter, which is now stipulated in Article 24 by the Government. But of course again with the delay of two months for the Slovenian Democratic Party. Unfortunately, that is the case, and no one can deny it. And we propose that Article 24 does not apply only for one year, as defined by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment. We propose that this lasts forever because the law is written as required by the regulation, and it would be right that transporters for the transport of timber are no longer. The transport document completed by the buyer and the seller is sufficient and sufficient. And, of course, that nonsense that I'm talking about all the time, is limited to 6 cubic metres of wood, so that the forest owner can take it all of a sudden from the forest home or to the saw or anywhere, I think it's really crazy. We want this to be removed from the law and we really expect that on Wednesday, when we consider this law, it will actually do so. The same applies to all measures for additional investment funds to those willing to expand their wood processing activity, which can be obtained from the wood mass of the damaged forests. We miss it in the intervention law. There's no talk in the intervention law about these things, and that's not right and that's wrong. If I keep going. It's a property tax. We have written down in our recommendations and in our own proposal for an intervention law that we propose a write-off of the property tax for 2014 and 2015 for all affected forests, damaged or destroyed infrastructure facilities, and for economic operators that have suffered more than a 5-day loss of production. That's what we're going to miss in your marriage. This would be the right approach and the right action. It's the same with cadastral income. Here, too, we have proposed a quite different variant than you suggest. If I also touch on the system of command in the framework of protection and resolution, I think it would be necessary to actually think about the appropriate organisation of the aid system in such disasters. You know, this transfer of responsibility from one level to another seems kind of ridiculous to us, even though you might say it sounded very unsavoury and unnecessary. The aim must be to ensure that the operational activity of all those who can help to remedy the consequences is as rapid as possible. Since the matter is hot, it was good for us to include amendments to the Fire Act in this proposal for an intervention law. I think now is a good time to solve this. See, at this point, I find it somewhat underestimating or sad that on RTV Slovenia will be performing a broadcast tomorrow where they are collecting funds for basic firefighter protection and rescue equipment. Look, I've been a volunteer firefighter for a really long time, and believe me, this kind of way of raising funds for firefighters offends me. I'm sorry. Who's in charge of firefighter equipment? Local communities and the state, it's true. Last year you decided to provide $3 million after the long sufferings and on our proposal for an amendment. But you know what happens in 2015? The 3 million are gone again because you rejected the 2015 amendment. You turned him down, and there will be no means to co-finance the purchase of firefighting equipment. You know, you don't have enough photo dates for all kinds of accidents, and so on, where Minister Jakič and Prime Minister Bratušek took a big picture. It's not enough. There's something you need to do. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose an amendment to the Fire Action Act, which would go in the direction of motivation for employers to want to hire firefighters. We believe that the status of an operational volunteer firefighter is the relationship between the employer and the firefighter, which stimulates the employment of firefighters by reducing insurance premiums and tax reliefs for the employer. It's the right way. If you want, we'll help you make the law. And further on, because we know how many volunteer firefighters did at that time, and when all of us were full of praise, both the prime ministers and the minister, it would be right for the state to ensure, not the congregation and the local community, and I don't know who. The State must support this issue in order to provide voluntary operational firefighters with financing of additional health insurance for each day of the public fire service and additional pension insurance. Look, we're talking about 10, maybe 20 operative firefighters inside every fire company. This does not mean for all volunteer firefighters, but for those who are actually operatives and for each day that he has performed as an operational volunteer firefighter, then these ratings are considered to be his. I think that's the right thing to do. You'll probably say, "Where do we get the money for all this?" I say don't tell me there's no money, don't tell me there's no money. Look how our country, how the government of Alenka Bratusek is indebted. Why are we in debt for 5 billion? To rehabilitate a bank hole. Okay. Why are we in charge of half a billion euros? Because we saved a private bank, a private bank. They were themselves responsible for what happened to them, and then we'll talk about a few million, we're talking about 5, 10, 15 million euros to be provided. And I always say: the budget is always a reflection of the priority of every single government. And if this authority is unaware of the need to help volunteer firefighters, if it is not aware of the need to help the wood industry, then God help us. If you don't do it, we'll suggest we do it. You're probably aware of that. Therefore, it would be right to approach these measures and do not argue that the means to make money are not in Slovenia. That's enough money. However, we are in charge of precisely these needs, which I have just talked about, if it is not truly possible to provide with redistribution. Just don't tell me there's no money! If we're looking for thieves who stole banks, then we can also rely on voluntary firefighters! I think the change in the law that would go in this direction would be easily possible only if it were willful. If the will is on that side, if the will is on the government and in the ruling coalition, which has the majority in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u175	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! As proposed by the motions for today's meeting, today, 24 February, we should decide that the National Assembly recommends to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, it is said today that within 5 days at the latest the text of the intervention law is to be determined by 1 March. But the government did it last week, April 20th. It is said that this recommendation is obsolete, obsolete and cannot be implemented. In addition, the following recommendation is that the National Assembly recommend that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia begin the preparation of a programme of consequences for the removal of the ice catch immediately. This programme is already in operation and is being operationally implemented, and this report is also obsolete. Tomorrow, on the Committee on Infrastructure and Space, we will consider the intervention law adopted by the Government last week, 20 February. In addition, the Forestry Committee will also consider the Forest Act, so that we will discuss these matters even in the morning or probably all day long, because the subject is very complicated and complicated. Today, I have received quite a few questions that are typical of almost all the congregations affected by this natural disaster. Let me just name a few. For example, the proposal for an intervention law provides for the eligibility to compensate for damage also for the costs of intervention and measures to prevent an increase in harmful consequences. In this regard, an important question is raised as to how these costs will be applied, what are the eligible costs in this regard and how much of these costs will be recovered from the municipalities. This question, even more elaborate, will be raised by the committee tomorrow. Then, for example, the concessionaire participated in the establishment of the transport of municipal roads by order of a specific municipality, or the contractor in the forests owned by the state. For all interventions in these areas, as well as for the cleaning of trees and branches in the protection zone of the road, in the case of state forests, this concessionaire should also take care of this, except that immediate action would be necessary in this case. Since the congregation commissioned the concessionaire, who would pay for it, the congregation or the concessionaire or the state? Then, for example, how should municipalities approach the cost of interventions sent by fire companies and other organisations? These costs will be incomparable between the different areas within the municipalities. How will they be checked? And so on. A whole bunch of open questions. Or, say, citizens want to report damage caused during the storm. Although the forms for the application are known but are not entirely appropriate, the instructions for the completion of these forms are not detailed enough. Thus, for example, form number 1, damage to agriculture – only damage to fruit trees should be reported, and this is not indicated in the instructions. So there is a whole lot of such details that will have to be defined, if not in the law itself, in the instructions or implementing acts. Then, for example, we have a proposal in this intervention law that provides for simplification of procedures for faster restoration of facilities. In some cases, it is likely that the construction of new facilities or infrastructure networks with some of the new routes will be more prudent. How is this going to happen now that this is an intervention building operation, an intervention phase of reconstruction? How will we proceed in this case? Or, say, what about the reimbursement of costs incurred by the use of smaller aggregates that were not connected to transformer stations? There's a whole bunch of open questions. However, as representatives of the six ministries and also the Slovenian Institute of Forests will participate tomorrow, we will be able to discuss more thoroughly and on a working day than today at this plenary session, because I have already said that the recommendations to be adopted today are virtually obsolete, as all these measures have already been taken by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u176	Thank you very much. On behalf of the proposer, Mr Zvonko Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u177	I am pleased that Mr Bevk, as Chairman of the Committee, has somehow attached to the fact that the request for a reference to this meeting has been justified. If we ignore the part where he allowed himself a little manipulation. We're 12. 2. make this request. That this point is being considered today is not our decision, but someone else's decision. I said earlier that the conditions for dealing with this point had been met already last week, but apparently it did not suit anyone that the same day that the Government dealt with the intervention law would also consider this point. But I also said that's a less important question. Our purpose, I said, and once again, was achieved at the moment when we cut short the road to the adoption of the intervention law in the government. And earlier it was said that there were 12. 2nd speech about not coming to this marriage for a few weeks. Now we've got him on the table in a good week. In this way, the intention of the proposers, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, has been achieved. Whether what we all want together will be fully achieved, I believe that this law will achieve, but it is not up to the opposition in this case, but, above all, the coalition. And here they don't mean a lot of words about a concert, about cooperation and so on, but they mean decisions. Talking about it, whether voting in the opposite direction or pressing the "against" button in decisions, in solutions that can be good, just because they are proposed by the opposition, then it is a negative principle. And we have listened to these words many, many times when it was necessary to make a concrete decision, but we have seen what the decision was. Last but not least, in this law, the government has caused total chaos in the area of real estate tax, which we have warned us about, and we have called for the understanding that the rulings should not do this because chaos will happen. And now I really want to see when Minister Virant will come forward, just as he did in another small story where he said, "Now we're going to make all this change so that people don't have to go to the window." Where's Minister Virant now so he doesn't answer? Thousands, tens of thousands of people flock to the window of administrative units and to the exposition of geodetic administrations completely unnecessary, to regulate some of the stunts that took place in the rapid preparation of this law. And there's no response in this direction to make these things right. Here, too, we would expect the government's response that this situation will immediately be cut off and faced with the fact that this law cannot be enforced this year, and would take this decision as soon as possible, and would prevent all this anger from falling to nothing guilty and innocent people behind the official desks. And here, in this case, I see that this debate is not unnecessary either. Comrade Bevk raised quite a few questions that arise and are not under the jurisdiction of the National Assembly, for many of them, not the Government, but individual ministers, and they are obliged to resolve these things in a way that people will know how and how to serve things. Of course, there is also a question of why some will receive reimbursement and others will not, and I believe that in the context of the adoption of the law tomorrow and on Wednesday we will resolve these issues and settle them in a uniform way for all. For we, too, as proponents of this extraordinary meeting and this debate, seem strange that in the area of some distribution, specifically Elektro Primorska, individual mayors have signed agreements or contracts under which these distributions cover the costs of fuel for aggregates supporting economic activity, craft, entrepreneurship and agriculture. It is said that they cover the costs of this fuel in its entirety. Not in the adjacent distribution area. For example, for the Loška Valley, which belongs to Elektro Ljubljana, this cost was not covered, at least not long ago, but this is not a question for the municipalities and not for distribution, this issue must be settled by the one responsible for the field of energy, so that it will be uniform for all. And we also need to learn from this ice catch that, as in the case of more or less distributions being left to themselves, despite all this international aid, when there was a need to provide over a thousand major aggregates, it is not good. It's not good. And if we do not learn from this and take certain measures to ensure that in similar cases nothing like this will happen, this event has unfortunately not taught us anything. And all of this is intended to enable, on the one hand, the consequences of this natural disaster to be addressed in the most rational manner possible, with some rational means, as optimally as possible, and to adopt measures, in similar cases, that will allow the approach or conduct to be different. However, we will probably not get all the answers, at least that which Mr Bevk has set out, not because the reimbursement of the costs to the local communities most affected is not regulated in this law, which we will deal with tomorrow and which the Government has dealt with on Thursday last week. For this reason, we propose that this law be supplemented, if possible, before the hearing on the parental committee tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk, you have a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u179	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! I have a procedural proposal in which I would essentially explain to myself that I do not have the opportunity to replicate my colleague, Montenegro, because I no longer have time to discuss. The Group of Social Democrats also spent all the time it had at its disposal today, so I will now leave the meeting of the National Assembly, go home and prepare for tomorrow's meeting of the Infrastructure Committee, which we will start at half nine in the morning, and we will have one working meeting earlier. I hope that tomorrow we will adopt a quality intervention law and then finally adopt it on Wednesday at the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u180	Thank you very much for this unprecedented proposal. However, we are continuing the debate, which will be followed by Mr Jakob Preseknik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u181	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I must correct my colleague Bevek, who is just leaving; tomorrow, on the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment, we will not deal with amendments to the Law on Forests, because we have done so almost 20 days ago. The changes to the law are ready and will be held at an extraordinary meeting on Wednesday. It saddens me that, despite my call to the committee itself, we have failed to allow this law to be dealt with as soon as possible at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, waiting to see any signatures, possibly coalitions. I did not see this coming, so we invited all the parliamentary groups to sign for the emergency meeting, for the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, and unfortunately only colleagues from New Slovenia and independent Member Ivan Vogrin responded positively. I would like to point out that many of this wood, which is in the woods, especially on the roads, is already waiting for transport and waiting for us to stop – at least temporarily this time, I suppose we will adopt a re-adjustment of the law and definitively abolish these carriers – so the wood is waiting in storage, in the woods, by the forests for transport without these impossible carriers, but unfortunately we have missed again at least one week. I must also stress this Real Estate Tax Act. It has now been shown that in many areas the consequences of this tax should be mitigated at least for those affected in this context, but it would be even better given the difficulties that are, in view of the massive difficulties, for at least one year or two years to adopt a moratorium on the implementation of this law, and with some other measures we would provide these funds which would fall short of the implementation of this law. So much for the introduction and for the consideration of matters that are indirectly linked to today's point. Now for today's point. I will not praise all individuals and services who have acted in these inhuman conditions because this has been said enough and too much, and these people are not just waiting for our praises. They are waiting for some of their statuses to be settled, for sure, and for the country to start thoroughly prepared to also remedy matters on the ground. From my own experience, I know that only well-planned, well-prepared recovery gives good results. I speak from my own experience, because 20, 25 years ago, I was very busy myself. It is also about introducing more modern and development-oriented solutions. It's not just about creating a previous state that can, of course, be good, but it can be bad, but it's about putting developmental components into what we're going to build instead of what these glands and these weather conditions have destroyed. So, I'm only going to point out two problems, of course, to many others that have occurred in this natural disaster. One such problem is, I think, but I am speaking completely unprofessionally that we do not have enough resources in Slovenia to spare electricity. According to the information I have, these are some others, indeed richer and more developed, the countries are much better prepared and are almost every moment prepared for these massive collapses of the existing network, not to mention such things that have occurred in Slovenia by tearing down hundreds and thousands of kilometres of electricity lines. That's one problem, and the other problem is that it's been a full-time song about the status of firefighters. I was at one of the general assemblies of one of the fire companies on Saturday where I pointed out this problem and then listened to them if you never did. I agree, too. You know what? We have been talking about this, I have been in this house and in the government for 18 years, and unfortunately no government, no coalition, no defence minister, but I don't know which, financially, has solved this problem. I fear that, even at this moment, the serious damage that has been done in these days will not be resolved, although it is imperative to resolve this status, especially the part where firefighters, members of the firefighting companies have the greatest problems in working organisations or otherwise, that companies have a problem with those involved in these rescue actions, let alone those who are self-employed or self-employed. So I expect, even in view of the changed situation in the economy, that the time has come for us to resolve this matter to some extent. I also agree with what the proponent said earlier, that even in the field of firefighting, it will sometimes be necessary to give careful consideration to whether all investments that do not go into the investment of rescue equipment are essential in terms of providing more resources for the care of the person involved in the intervention. With this I will end, with the appeal of course, that we save these things urgently in the National Assembly, and that there will be little less of this prestigious struggle, because of this prestigious battle on the ground those who are injured and those who are trying to help have nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u182	Thank you very much. The word is now mag. Ivan Vogrin, but he is not present at the hall, so I give the floor to Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u183	Thank you very much. It is interesting to look at this hall, where we are actually proposing ourselves. But let me go in line and say this: 7. 2. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Almost, I almost said it. Seven. 2. We have dealt with in this National Assembly our request concerning the prosecution. And then the coalition, including some media, of course, was happily selling a story that was told to Slovenians were locked in the ice, in the stomach and so on, fighting for life, and you're playing with the prosecution, the archives and all sorts of things, which of course was an ecclatic lie, a pure lie. On 24 January we filed a request, on 7 February it was on the agenda and the agenda was set by the College of the President of the National Assembly and not by us. As far as this requirement is concerned to the National Assembly, as regards this intervention law or the proposal for conclusions on the understanding and all its consequences, we are hearing today, of course, a bit earlier procedurally departing Bevek, who is, of course, lying cheerfully into the camera again. Why is she lying? For a fundamental reason, because he says, "Your conclusions, which are that the National Assembly recommends to the Government and so on, to determine the text of the intervention law, cannot be accepted, for we are already." That's a lie. That's a lie. If it were possible to punish him, we'd put one so long nose on him that he couldn't get out the door, and he'd be a liar. Why is that a lie? For a basic reason, because our request was filed 14 days ago, 14 days ago, of course, when this government said yes, because we will, we will do it all, but we will do it once we describe the damage, one day in March we will consider the law. So the government said, the government that Mr Bevk supports or the component of which is his party. Our purpose has certainly been achieved. Why? Because you were ashamed, it was a shame that you first came to the working table of the National Assembly, a law submitted by the SDS. You were ashamed of yourself in front of people, so you quickly wrote that marriage. Now you reject our text and accept yours. Target accomplished, thank God. But this lie of yours and this trick and maneuver of yours is just to be revealed, that's also a fact. In short, we've obviously made it through our request. Now there are a few things that concern such transfers as Mrs Brunskole, who happily, as Vice-President of the National Assembly, will use some of the text of the debate for a procedural proposal, as does the procedurally departing Bevk. And of course, because you warned her, but in my opinion this is too little, it is necessary, in my opinion, that the president has all the power to stop, turn off the microphone, and some other powers are written. But she said, "What is the essence of the SDS requirement? What the Government is already doing, so we will give up, we will leave, we will not debate to deal with government law as soon as possible." Of course, the Positive Slovenia has left here an on-call Member, everyone else – I think there are 26, 27, or 26, or how many there are besides that Member who is here – but of course they get paid so much and so much per hour and are at home. This also applies to others. Otherwise, in our marriage, we have made very clear what is absolutely necessary at this point in our proposal for a law – we have not even introduced the law, but we have proposed to the Government that it should be examined. We've foreseen everything that needs to be done right now. But look, now the government in the draft law, which will be on Wednesdays, says it will give 17 million euros or what it will give in 2014. This money, 17 million euros, I don't know how you can imagine what this would be like by 2014, if you were to pay for the damages, or what will happen? That's very hard to say. Mrs. Hotchevar, too, with that beautiful performance to get us together. You could've fixed our marriage! Why didn't you fix it? Why did you reject it? Then how do we get together? They have a nice saying down over Sotlo, but there's no reason for that saying to the camera, otherwise I'd say it. So, it's not possible to melt together, but if you refuse everything the opposition is preparing. How's that? We do have an extraordinary meeting every month of the National Assembly on current matters. Have you reached any conclusions? So far, no one, as long as I can remember. Of course, firefighters are the subject – now they're all kind of on firefighters, Mr. Presecnik and Tonin. Well, that's all good and good, but now there's got to be something you can do. I also have a general assembly every week, which is a fact on this subject. But once again it is necessary to tell these gentlemen, the firefighters, that the government of Alenka Bratušek is still the shitty 3 million, forgive the expression, deleted in the 2014 budget, that is this year. And if our Member Croat hadn't given it, then our parliamentary group with him put an amendment, and then there were again some disgraced ministers and coalition faces, and of course they pressed the "for" button because they were embarrassed. And that's why firefighters have $3 million this year, and they have nothing for next year. If there is anything in your pants, as it is called, then bring the law, and at least fulfill what the Croat said were paid, insured, and something else for the day they work. The fire extinguisher is true – the number of firefighters is incredibly large, but there is no need to be afraid of that cost for a fundamental reason, since those operatives are, of course, significantly less. So, look, that's exactly how the mirror should be shown. Yes, Madam Vice President, let's move in together, it was said earlier. How, though, if you refuse anything, does the opposition suggest?Oh, my God! You can't, can you, you can't. Then it's like I'm on this side of the hall, and you're on that side. No, no, that's not the right thing to do. Of course, all those you have said before, when you now come in, what is the essence of the demand – the essence of our request is clear, to help people, but you, of course, have rejected it for prestigious reasons and written your law, and in the meantime you have done a little bit of loading, as Mr Bevk said, and that is the essence of the matter. So much for now, and I'll check in later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u184	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u185	Thank you so much for saying that. Some things need to be pointed out. First of all, the only task of the coalition in the National Assembly is to try to discredit anything we propose in the Slovenian Democratic Party, starting with the President of the Government and the other members of the coalition in the National Assembly. We are not proposing laws to harm the country, but to help take any further steps to help the coalition, and this law, or this proposal for an extraordinary meeting, which we have tabled in the 12th, is because we have also submitted a legal basis or law. I would also like to remind you that for the first time and for the second time, we have called on the Government to approach the solutions to the problems associated with the acorn. Nothing happened, except for a few outstanding photo terms for the Minister of Defence, President of the Government, then Mr Omerzel joined. Nothing else. We have no choice but to react to the situation. Another feature of the meetings or agenda items where you face our proposals is that the government is endlessly rare. It is extremely difficult, extremely difficult in the debate, in the communication between a Member and a government official, a government official comes to the floor. If possible, it's wise to keep it quiet and whatever's on the other side. The third thing, and I think I should point out, is that now this intervention law is something between a law that is for a longer period of time and an intervention law. As a rule, the intervention law shall cover the period of the financial year. Your intervention law covers over a year's budget. Unfortunately, you have such solutions in there and probably the thing in this part is not consistent, but it would seem to me that the government would at least, at the very least, pull the brakes on the property tax in those affected by natural disasters, and these are large, and the damage is enormous, whether it is property in the form of housing, housing, agricultural facilities, economic facilities or agricultural and forest areas. None of this has made the government tired. And second, I think that, especially because extremely large amounts of investment in the restoration of forests, including agricultural areas, will be needed, we should draw something concrete and better in reducing the dose of cadastral income. What you have proposed is a minimal intervention, practically irrelevant, insignificant. In the forests it will be necessary, in addition to extremely much work on cleaning forests, as well as many rehabilitation works, afforestation, restoration parts of forests will be needed, roads will be needed and so on, and the government will not prepare anything in particular here. It seems strange to me that the Government is already having problems with various corruption projects and will be pursuing the establishment of a part of a company or a grandfather that will deal with forest forest varieties. This seems to me a bad approach, especially because the damage is mostly in private forests. But it would seem good to me, and this is not in any government project to prepare for the establishment of a forest-forest chain, to establish, on the basis of this and this disaster, some quality, good wood production for good varieties and good programmes, as well as for what has been damaged in these forests. This is not the case in the government's draft intervention law and measures, and this seems a major problem to me. And if you don't take advantage of the situation that occurred now that there's an excess of forest-forest mass, and do something, then it's too late.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u186	Thank you very much. The word was also wanted by a representative of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u187	Thank you very much, Madam President. So that our debate or discussion, if we call it that, sounds like we're competing or the opposition, the coalition and the government are competing, who was the first, I think we're going to get there by Wednesday or for a minute, who ever presented any initiative to anyone. I personally assess that all these initiatives have been well-intentioned, as Mr Cernač has already found that the aim has been achieved. Apparently, there were some statements in the media, too, that the media took the wrong decision, that only March the law would end in the government and then after a regular procedure in the National Assembly. But on that day, when we had the first meeting of the group to which I was Vice-President, I made a public statement at the Odessa on the evening that the Government must adopt this law within one week at the next regular meeting of the Government. At that time, we were eight days away, or good seven days, because it was a night away, and we accepted it. We were aware of the urgency of the situation, and earlier this morning, when we discussed it on the committee, there was a talk that we had to be quick and that the deadline of one week was normal, but still very fast and ambitious. And that's what we've achieved. That's what you're admitting to us, and not to your own, I'd say it's because we've all put a lot of effort into it after all. The latest data, when the question was raised earlier, that I do not know how many thousands of customers are still powering through aggregates – today it is actually less than 3 thousand customers, it is true that the demand points are still powered through approximately 128 aggregates, with the number likely to change during the day because they are moving from one area to another, only in the Elektro Ljubljana and Elektro Primorska area, and 105 reception sites were still without electricity this morning. Many of this, according to the Presidents of the administrations of these two companies of various remote cottages – not that they are underestimating, but in fact they are difficult situations, and the teams that are, are already not sure which day on the ground and are being rehabilitated and the number is falling every day. But it is true that a large number of these customers, I think, are also empty and also have some kind of self-sustainment with aggregates. I, too, look forward to tomorrow's meetings of the competent committees, as it has been repeatedly mentioned today that, on your part and probably also on the part of the coalition, there will be a lot of constructiveness to improve the law. I'm not saying that this is an ideal law, that this is the best law that can't be improved. At a certain point, it was what it was. The government has accepted, and I believe that all good proposals must be accepted by the committee. I'll take it from here. The situation in the country is what it is. There's no money left to spare, so I won't say he's gone. For good reasons, he must always be found. If we found him for other things, he has to be found for that. I myself have been one of the few in this working group that we have advocated for the maximum possible volume of budget reserves available to be allocated in the first tranche to remedy the consequences of apathy and rehabilitation. In addition, funds from the European Union Solidarity Fund are also available, which, of course, comes with the adoption of the law itself. The second source is then insurance, harmful specimens, then the EIB's credit source. I hope that we have not stayed at this number, since the Government has also extended it to another 14-day reduction in excise duties and so on. Thus, from the burdens of administration to the easier placement of facilities into space — during the debate, it has already been heard that there may be an article in the intervention law, Article 15, to be corrected and so on. So tomorrow, I believe, will be a constructive debate, and the intervention law will be the result of our constructive ideas. Today we will not be able to resolve this, but I believe we will give a good basis for tomorrow's decision in the National Assembly on Wednesday, because the law should really be adopted in a fast procedure. In addition, of course, two other laws under the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment and next week, on the first day of the regular session, where we are correcting the Public Procurement Act, the ZJN-2, and the Law on Public Procurement in Water, Energy, Transport and Postal Services, where all infrastructure companies falling under this law will be provided with an appropriate legal basis so that they can effectively and quickly remedy recovery and remedial measures. This is where I'd stop. I believe that tomorrow we will be more detailed, more precise and more constructive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Černač is also on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u189	Thank you very much again. 12. 2. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we have submitted a request for this extraordinary meeting and for a discussion on the consequences of the ice catch with two key proposals. One proposal was for the Government to draw up an operational programme to remedy the consequences, and the second proposal was for the Government to somehow adopt the proposal for an intervention law, which we have attached in some form to the draft. In this second part, although the Government has not adopted much of what we have proposed, but today we have a law at our disposal, and this is most important. After a good week, the Parliamentary Assembly shall have an emergency intervention law, which, if completed in an appropriate manner by the Committee tomorrow, can be adequately regulated by what cannot be regulated at the level of the ministries or at the level of the Government. On this occasion, we would like to draw attention to some of the points which we consider crucial in this regime. Today, it has been mentioned several times in the debate that after all these years, the time has come to regulate the status of a volunteer firefighter, and here we intend to persist. We believe that these provisions should be introduced under this law and that this status should be regulated once and for all. Furthermore, today, some coalition members have also been exposed to the need to regulate the situation of those municipalities, those of the local communities that have been most affected, which will not be able to remedy the damage in any way. This arrangement is not yet in this law, and at this point we will insist. We believe that it is necessary to open at least such a legal possibility that the government, with appropriate measures, can manage this situation specifically in the light of the situation of the Office. It's enough for us that this option is open in marriage. The next point I would like to point out and have been mentioned several times in the debate today, and we believe that it is necessary to regulate it under this law, is the cadastral income for the affected areas and land and the property tax for the damaged forests and those objects that have been severely and permanently damaged or for those economic operators that have not been able to do so without blaming themselves for more than 5 days. This is also an area that we believe should be regulated in this law, and given that this law will be dealt with in two days on Wednesday, we consider it appropriate to also address the relatively simple and bureaucratic issue of so-called carriers. There is no need to delay this question. This issue needs to be addressed in this law, which will be implemented as quickly as possible, and the free movement with that wooden floor waiting for proper transport. The last point, where this law, which the Government has sent to the procedure, has been regulated in some way, but we believe that it needs to be improved, is the establishment of these services to build the new necessary infrastructure. This issue seems crucial to us, and we believe that it must be addressed in such a way that then these companies that will implement these investments will also apply this law or that they will be able to use it in a practical way and that it will serve them without it being an additional obstacle, which will mean nothing, just a dead letter on paper that will have no effect. We believe that the moment is also appropriate that the Government should set up a set of these investment interventions, which must not be too wide, but it must be to this extent, as we have discussed in our proposal, when we are talking about the establishment of an energy infrastructure in a way that will ensure that all customers have a stable supply of electricity from a sanitized electricity network, and the establishment of a transport infrastructure as soon as possible in the fifth corridor, where Slovenian railways are now carrying out this trans-shipment with exceptional efforts and will therefore probably record a poor business outcome. We believe that, lastly, we are obliged to do so also because they are employed, of course, in addition to firefighters and other volunteers, and all others who have done their utmost to address the consequences of this natural disaster, especially those employed in electricity distribution and in the entire energy system, as well as those employed in infrastructure companies, have worked extremely hard and have done their utmost to make this infrastructure work as quickly as possible and that customers would have normal conditions as soon as possible. Another additional point, which we also believe is justified, is now apparent in these days, the consequences of this, but the extension of this law to the recovery of the damage caused by the floods resulting from this ice catch or this natural disaster. It seems unacceptable to us that now all those people who suffer major accidents both on the premises and on the land would not receive the same treatment as those who suffered the consequences a few days earlier. I'd end up with that somehow. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we intend to make every effort to ensure that this law is adopted in such a way as to be as operational, efficient, efficient and effective as possible, and of course that it will also produce results in the shortest possible period, which means that it should also have a time limit within which the greatest consequences of this damage should be addressed. We have foreseen that this proposal should be eliminated by the end of 2015 at the latest, in this year, in the next three months, and what is most necessary in order to ensure the operability of the infrastructure system in both the transport and energy fields. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-24-SDZ6-Izredna-56.ana.u190	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters who wanted the word also received it, but of course I can still ask, in accordance with Article 71, whether anyone else would like to discuss it because we have some time left. I don't see anyone else who'd like to discuss it. This means that I can conclude the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 12. 2009 The National Assembly notes that the procedure for the consideration of the proposal has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 56th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly and wish you a pleasant evening.
