ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Alenka Jeraj, Mrs Eva Irgl, Mrs Irena Tavčar, Mrs Janja Napast, Mrs Jasmina Opec, Mrs Ljudmila Novak, mag. Stanko Stepišnik, Mr. Franz Bogovich, mag. Matthew Tonin, Mrs. Sonja Ramshak. I say hello to everyone else. We are moving on to the 1st A-point of the agenda, which is to defend the bill on amendments and amendments to the law on public procurement under urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Mitji Mavku, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, thank you very much for your words. If you allow me, I would like to submit an introductory presentation together, given that they are interconnected, both amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act as well as amendments to the Public Procurement Act in the infrastructure field. The key objectives pursued by the Government with both bills are two. The first is dealing with the consequences of greed and effective action on ice. By amending the legislation, we want to quickly issue and execute public procurement to remedy the consequences of natural disasters. However, the second set of issues addressed by amendments and amendments to the law are at the expense of simplification, less bureaucratic requirements and the introduction of a larger common public procurement, which certainly contributes to greater efficiency and efficiency. Let me first touch the consequences of the capture. The draft laws also allow for a new definition of exceptions to contracts for survival and life in the event of natural disasters in the law used by energy companies, i.e. to deal directly with the consequences of the capture, to ensure the normal functioning of the energy network. At the same time, the amendment allows the Government to apply this exception under both laws also to orders to prevent directly threatening damage in the event of a natural or other accident. This means that we can also take preventive action by amending legislation and that public procurement is not an obstacle to preventive action in the event of natural disasters. In cases of natural disasters, changes in legislation also allow for faster progress. Where the contracting authority issues an urgent order, the novelties of both laws shall allow the contract to be concluded without delay, i.e. without taking into account the period of stay. In the field of more efficient and efficient public procurement, the amendments to both laws introduce one simplified but transparent procurement procedure under EU border values. We believe that this removes certain administrative obstacles, certain bureaucraticities and faster and more effective functioning. This means that the contracting authorities do not have to take a decision to initiate the procurement procedure, instead of proving sufficient the tenderer’s declaration of compliance with the requirements, and with the amendments it is not permissible to require further explanations of the award decision, which, in our view, will make the procedures faster. With amendments to the Public Procurement Act, we also introduce mandatory public procurement of public institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia. We believe that, by achieving economies of scale, we can achieve significant rationality in the system mainly in the field of health. The novelties of both laws also introduce a legal basis for the adoption of a sub-law that could regulate the area of financial insurance in public procurement. We have found that the contracting authorities often introduce disproportionate, perhaps even excessive, requirements that irritate public procurement. A final change in the field of a more efficient and simpler public procurement system. In accordance with the new directives and the established practice of the EU courts in all procurement procedures, we also allow, in addition to complementing the offer, a change in the tender submitted by the individual tenderer if it eliminates any formal deficiency or a failure in the offer. We believe that in this way we are making the public procurement system simpler, more efficient, more rational and equipped with all the necessary attributes, which will also allow us to deal with the consequences of natural disasters, as we have seen them recently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u3	Thank you, too. The draft law was also regarded by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the Committee's report, I give the floor to President Bojan Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u4	Thank you so much for your words, Mr. President, and a nice greeting to everyone! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 84th urgent meeting, on 28. 2. 2014 as a parent labour body considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act. This has been submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government, with a proposal for its consideration and adoption following an urgent procedure adopted by the College of the President of the National Assembly at its 84th meeting, on 24. 2. 2014 certificates. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which made comments on Articles 1, 5, 7, 8, 10, 25 and 27 of the legislative proposal. 27. 2. In 2014, the four coalition groups tabled amendments to Articles 1, 8, 25 and 27. As part of the additional material, the Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the State Economic, Crafts, Tourism and Finance Council of 28. 2. 2014 supporting the proposal. The meetings were attended by representatives and the State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance, Director of the Public Procurement Directorate, Representative of the Legislative and Legal Service and Representative and President of the State Audit Commission. Mr Mavko, State Secretary, gave the introductory explanation. He said that the proposal follows two basic objectives, which, on the one hand, would ensure that public procurement is made quickly and that the consequences of natural disasters are addressed mainly after the latest catch. Simultaneously simplifying and demobilising procedures in a more cost-effective and efficient public procurement direction. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service pointed out that the amendments of the coalition groups to Articles 1, 8, 25 and 27 followed a written opinion by the fact that the Legislative and Legal Service, in its final edition, would address the individual shortcomings of Articles 5 and 10 prior to the publication of the official documents. In the debate, the President of the State Audit Commission expressed concerns about the proposal or asked the indicative question whether the amended text actually constituted a simplification of the objectives set out in the faster procurement procedure. Then a rather broad and long debate developed. In particular, the opposition's representatives asked if the changes were actually in the right direction and positive for the faster implementation of the public procurement. The Secretary of State explained that this was the case, but the opposition did not support it at the end of this law. On the basis of Article 131, on the initiative and proposal of Positive Slovenia, the Committee drafted and adopted the amendment to Article 27. In accordance with Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee defined and adopted all amendments submitted by the parliamentary groups by Articles 1, 8, 25 and 27. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the proposal and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended Act, which includes all the amendments adopted, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Such a proposal is proposed for adoption by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u5	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Mr Mitja Mavko, with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! To begin with, I will present the position of the New Slovenia Group on both proposals for public procurement laws, namely the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act and the Proposal for a Law on Public Procurement in Water, Energy, Transport and the Field of Postal Services, which contain substantively identical or related solutions. The purpose and purpose of public procurement legislation is to ensure transparent and, in particular, cost-effective treatment of the money of legal entities operating by public means. To this end, the law lays down in more detail the rules on how a separate type of contract is to be carried out. This must be carried out in a manner that ensures equal standing for all tenderers to participate in the procurement process. It's all good and it's all good. We have a law on public procurement and its twin, a law on public procurement in water, energy, transport and postal services, which I stress very carefully, lays down very detailed rules on the award of public contracts and within this rule various types and ways of awarding public contracts. In this regulation of rules, we are so precise that the whole law has become almost useless. The area of public procurement therefore requires highly qualified specialists who are even able to master the theoretical basis of public procurement. We also need experts who are qualified to develop technical requirements for the award of individual procurement contracts or individual procurement sets, and then again highly qualified experts who supervise the implementation of the Public Procurement Act. In short, in Slovenia we have developed the field of public procurement into the right kind of science, which is controlled by a small number of employees or experts. This distortion has therefore become a contradiction in itself, since instead of providing wider access to individual public procurement, it has led to a situation where the contracting authority can only participate in the procurement process if it has an employed expert in this field or has sufficient resources to pay the outside contractor for both the contracting authority and the tenderers. In addition, we note that, despite the very precise regulation of public procurement, there are many irregularities and, above all, rules and regulations often merely cover non-economic treatment of public money, the unjustified preference of a pre-selected tenderer, which is already elements of crime, corruption, non-economic treatment of public funds and so on. In this way, millions and tens of millions of public money are lost in procurement processes instead of savings. Such a situation must be overcome. The Christian Democrats of New Slovenia are reminded of the need for a completely new legal basis for regulating public procurement procedures. The law governing public procurement must be simple, harmonised with European law and must be the basis for the real realization of the fundamental principle of public administration. It must also establish the basis for the responsibility of all participants in procurement procedures, both material and criminal. In doing so, it would be useful to follow the public procurement regime in those European countries that are now successful in this area. Today we are considering amendments to the Public Procurement Act and also to the Public Procurement Act on water, energy, transport and postal services. Both bring only revisions to existing legislation, namely simplification of procedures in particular in the field of low value public procurement. We welcome ideas about simplifying these procedures in New Slovenia. However, we have listened carefully to the concerns and comments of the State Audit Commission, which draws attention to the possible consequences of such oversimplification, in their view. In particular, they challenged the abolition of the compulsory issue of the decision to initiate the low value procurement procedure, which provides a substantive definition of the subject, the responsible person and the indicative value of the contract. The abolition of this act will make the work of the supervisory authority very difficult in the audit procedures. According to the Christian Democrats of New Slovenia, in the process of drafting changes and supplementing public procurement legislation, they should invite the State Audit Commission to cooperate, which, in monitoring the implementation of public procurement legislation, detects shortcomings and inconsistencies and then submit a coordinated proposal for amendments and legislative additions to the Parliamentary procedure, which has not been done in a specific case. Thus, we know from now on that when implementing the proposed amendments and supplementing the Public Procurement Act and its twin, public procurement law in the water, energy transport and postal services, we cannot support problems and such legislative proposals. Members of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats The draft law on amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act and the draft law on public procurement on water, energy, transport and postal services will not be supported. I'm sorry I spent just over five minutes, but I initially said that I'm combining positions, so I saved four minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u7	Thank you. That's exactly what I wanted to ask you again. Do you then give up the special presentation announced at point 1.b? Thank you. Aleksandra Osterman will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u8	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. All in attendance, all in attendance! Infringements or problems in connection with public procurement are a problem I think we all know what I'm talking about. Every year, through public procurement, up to €5 billion is turned around at the national level. This will allow us to decide today on the draft law and on amendments and amendments to the Public Procurement Act. The Novela is primarily pursuing three goals. Establishing such an arrangement that will allow for a more cost-effective and faster delivery and the implementation of public procurement. Simplification and simplification of public procurement below the limits. Last but not least, debirocratisation of the procurement procedure and thus the provision of lower costs for tenderers to participate in public procurement procedures and cheaper and faster procurement. The key innovations introduced by the novelty are thus the abolition of the mandatory decision to initiate the procurement procedure. On the Finance Committee itself, there were criticisms on this account, but I will ask a rhetorical question – what is the added value of such a decision, say, in a body with five employees, where the same person first issues a decision to initiate the procedure and then this decision begins to take effect by issuing an invitation to tender? How can the Authority react quickly and, for example, engage in bankruptcy proceedings as a buyer if it has to first issue a decision to initiate the procedure and then start purchasing? Of course, these are just rhetorical questions and indiscretions that, if not, do not guarantee transparency or economy or, as we have heard, traceability. But it doesn't hold. What is true is that the Authority will still be obliged to maintain all documents that affect the decision to initiate the procedure or the indicative value of the contract for 10 years. The novelty introduced by the novelty is also a statement by the tenderer and no longer the required evidence by the contracting authority which had to be adapted to the tender. The contracting authority will now be able to verify for itself in case of doubt. The main novelty is the permissibility of complementing offers, which has extended the existing Institute of Complementation to formally incomplete offers with the possibility of modifying offers. The tenderers will be able not only to supplement their bids but to amend them by correcting the errors they contained at the time of submission. In view of the need to prevent abuse, supplementation and amendment of offers, the proposal sets out the conditions under which the offer can be amended or supplemented. It will not be possible to supplement or amend in that part which affects the classification according to the selection criteria and the ratio to any other tenders in parts relating to the subject matter of the offer and the technical specifications, thereby preventing the tenderer from replacing, on the basis of the information provided by the opening of tenders, the object it offers in order to make its offer more favourable. Nor will it be possible to request further explanations on the award decision, as this has led to an unnecessary and sometimes speculative extension of the time limit for the award of the contract. Thus far, the mandatory agreement of the supervisory authority or the government to conclude an annex amending the subject matter or scope of the order or increasing the price or value of the contract and the agreement of the supervisory authority or the government to derogate from the execution of the contract. All of this shall be replaced by a mandatory written notification from the supervisory authority or Government. There are also exceptions to mandatory rest. In procedures where the contracting authority receives only one offer, it is not appropriate to take account of the period of stay. In order to ensure control of procurement procedures that apply exceptions to the period of stay, the proposal provides that contracting authorities should specifically justify the exemption. A very important novelty introduced by the novelty is compulsory public procurement at the level of public institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia. Your Honor! In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, we believe that the proposed innovations are consistent with our vision of further development of the area of public procurement regulation, so we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u9	Thank you, too. Mr Ivan Grill will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. That's a nice hello to you all! Let me also introductoryly explain that this position of our Group is also intended for the next law, which we will consider, means for both of us together. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act, as well as the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act on water, energy, transport and postal services in the Slovenian Democratic Party, will unfortunately not be supported, although we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the proposer wanted these amendments to prevent difficult remedial consequences for the functioning of the State and to ensure a more efficient and cost-effective use of public funds. As stated in the explanation of the laws, the purpose of these laws is also faster and more cost-effective broadcasting and the implementation of public procurement. This should also ensure that EU funds are used more efficiently, a higher level of flexibility allowing contracting entities to take into account the circumstances of individual procurement. The aim should also be to debirocratise public procurement procedures and to make it cheaper and faster to order. While reading the articles of these laws at first sight, it is not easy to see that these solutions do not follow those objectives, which have also been stated by the applicants, but many times it turns out that the most realistic individual law can only be verified in practice. At the time of the examination of these laws on the home working body, we were reminded by the President of the State Audit Commission of some of the dangers that such provisions might pose in practice. This was stated in specific cases. In view of the fact that they also had some comments forwarded to the Government within a short period of time, they were not forwarded and therefore did not take them into account by the applicant. In the opinion of the State Audit Commission, some of the solutions in this law will not produce the expected results or are confident that the effects will be exactly the opposite. For them, three sets are problematic: the abolition of the decision to initiate procedures for low-value contracts, then the abolition of the possibility of additional explanations required for low-value contracts and the possibility of modifying the tenders allowed by this law. As I mentioned, the President of the State Audit Commission presented on very practical occasions what the risks of such changes could be. In his view, this will happen and will lead to many inconveniences. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that the warnings from the State Audit Commission have been justified and should be taken into account. Given that no comments from the State Audit Commission have been taken into account during the amendments adopted, unfortunately we will not support these laws in the parliamentary group, even though we believe that the aim of the proposaler has been completely corrected and that this area is more regulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u11	Thank you, too. Mr Mirko Brulc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u12	Your Honor! A pair of the already mentioned law on public procurement in water, energy, transport and postal services allows similar exceptions to allow for the rapid delivery and execution of contracts for which the needs have already arisen, or will be if the purchases resulting from the weather are essential to ensure the basic conditions for survival or life or to prevent the occurrence of directly threatening damage in the event of natural and other disasters. In addition, the law provides that tenders can not only be supplemented but also amended to ensure greater efficiency, efficiency and efficiency of public procurement. Rapid procurement and procurement are particularly important for public procurement co-financed by European funds, and effective funding from the European Union is part of the consolidation of public finances. The law also introduces compulsory public procurement in public institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia. This is essential in individual areas to unify the subject matter of public procurement and, above all, to achieve greater savings in public treasury. On the basis of the proposed amendments, the administrative burden of tenderers participating in public procurement procedures is expected. In view of the termination of the tendering procedure following the previous publication and the introduction of the possibility of verifying the requirements of the tender documentation by making a declaration to the tenderer in all contracts under the European Union's limit values, as well as the possibility of supplementing the tender, thereby allowing for the correction of the deficiencies and errors of the tenders originally submitted, the costs of participating in the procurement procedures will be reduced. In particular, due to the possibility of modifying tenders, it is expected that contracting entities, in practice, will use more frequently the possibilities already offered by the Public Procurement Act No 2 to them. This is only the verification of the most favourable offers and the requirement of proof from the most favourable bidders. On the basis of the cost assessment of the current and new arrangements, at annual level, it is assumed that contracting entities will take into account in practice the simplifications that are the subject of this Act, to expect a reduction of EUR 635 thousand in the costs of the tenderers. On the basis of the proposed solutions, the Group of Social Democrats will support the amendments to the Public Procurement Act, which will enable the rapid resolution of the consequences of the capture, faster use of European funds and the appreciation of public procurement. Mr President, there are only two SDS Members here, the others are collecting offers and they are not on the job. I'm asking if you have any information if they come to the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u13	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the National Gazette, Mr Branko Kurnjek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u14	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice President. Mr State Secretary with co-worker and co-workers, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The idea of public procurement is a rational use of public funds. In terms of this rationality, we have consolidated both views of this legislative twin in the National Gazette. It is called the Public Procurement Act and the Public Procurement Act on water, energy, transport and postal services. That is why, Madam Vice President, I am calling off my position on the law. The changes are followed by two basic objectives. The first to execute public procurement to remedy the consequences of natural disasters, especially after the latest capture, is also the main reason for urgent consideration of the law. However, another major change is the partial debirocratisation and simplification of procurement procedures. Because of the difficulties of electricity companies in dealing with the acorn with the bill, we define an exception for contracts for survival and life in the event of a natural disaster. At the same time, we allow this exception to be applied under both laws also to orders to prevent directly threatening damage in a natural or other accident. In cases where the contracting authority issues an urgent order, the novelty shall be permitted to conclude the contract without delay. There has been quite a few unfounded developments on the Committee that have led to a change that removes the obligation to take a decision initiating the procurement procedure in some cases. It is true that this kind of decision does not take much time, but just because a form does not need much time, we have already introduced many different forms, conclusions and documents. And in the vast majority of cases, it is really necessary to issue a decision first, what kind of invitation to tender you will prepare, and then you will prepare such a public invitation to tender. In the case of major organisations, this decision can also remain because we do not prohibit it by law, but simply abolish it as mandatory. It's a small step in debirocratization. The mandatory adaptation of the evidence shall also be eliminated and the tenderer's declaration of compliance shall be sufficient. A more important addition to the law is also an option that allows, in addition to complementing and clarifying the offer, a change of offer. This is based on the existing practice of the Court of Justice of the European Community. This, unlike our existing practice, allows for a change in supply. It is intended to deform the proceedings, i.e. to supplement any tenderer, even if the offer is incorrect, this offer can be completed. Of course, such a change is prohibited in parts which may affect the speculation of tenderers, so it must not alter the price, part of the offer concerning the criteria or content. We can conclude that such a change is more humane and less bureaucratic. In the Civil Gazette, we want major changes in the field of public procurement, which can become an important source of budgetary savings through rationalisation. Legislative and organisational changes are needed, so it is necessary to increase the professionality of the work and, above all, to introduce the personal, moral and material responsibilities of all those involved in the procurement procedures. However, the proposed changes are certainly a step further, so we will support them in the Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The following is the position of the Slovenian People's Party Parliamentary Group, which will be presented by Mr Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u16	Nice greetings from my colleague, colleagues, vice president, representatives of the government! Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Procurement and the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Procurement in Water, Energy and Transport and the Field of Postal Services, Twinkie. I'll tell you why I read both addresses. The area of public procurement is always a sensitive matter, and frankly, we change the law at least once a year, which is of course not an honor and pride. Even today, we cannot claim that the law is good and effective. In fact, we could say that the Public Procurement Act is rather an engine of corruption than a real public procurement. Why is that? We'd be wondering. Since, of course, the law simply cannot record all the options and exceptions and the different procedures accompanying public procurement. At the same time, over €4 billion is being converted through these orders, according to some indications. Of course. Very soon after the adoption of the new law, contracting authorities find legal loopholes. For this they have money and various legal offices that enable them to continue with the concept that has been put in place so far. We remember all kinds of gifts and so on. In view of the fact that the next law on equal content, the same solutions, only in the field of water, energy and transport, will we be in the Slovenian People's Party, or on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party, taking positions for both laws at the same time, we will no longer advertise at the next point. Today, we have these two laws on the table to simplify procurement procedures – to the greatest extent, they are low-value contracts – and thus help to eliminate as quickly as possible the effects of the ice grip that hit Slovenia a few days ago. If we put more personal and material responsibilities into this law — because it is a matter of countrywide capture and remedying the consequences of the municipalities — the mayors could be better and significantly less bureaucratic. In terms of eliminating bureaucracy, we would expect, this would be an opportunity and also a good test to make changes in this direction. The fact is that there is still too much paperwork and too many procedural procurement phases in public procurement. The participants do not want such red tape because it is a waste of precious time and money rather than a personal responsibility. This should be attended by both the State Audit Commission and the other actors involved in the procurement. In fact, it would be a time to adopt a modern, modern law on public procurement, as I have already mentioned, with a significantly greater personal responsibility. Not only with personal responsibility, but also with material responsibility, because until those who make the decision hit the pocket, they will not behave economically enough, in the vast majority, of course, it does not apply to everyone, it is not possible to generalize. As already mentioned, we support simplification of procedures in the Slovenian People's Party, but the fact is that a number of questions remain unanswered. The effects are questionable, as are the consequences. We are very concerned about the comments made by the Head of the State Audit Commission in the examination of draft laws on the home working body and not cleared during the examination itself. In this case, the Commission, acting on an official duty to tender, has remained on its coast for some articles. And that's what we're worried about. That is why we hope to receive enough clarification from the Government today on these open dilemmas, and our support will depend on that. It is understandable that the consequences of the ice catch or in cases of natural disasters for emergencies are being eliminated and we support the law in such a context. However, a bigger problem arises because these changes do not only apply to public procurement in the context of remedying the consequences, but are subject to permanent changes. As I have already said in my position, we are committed to obtaining a modern law on public procurement, which would take into account and introduce significantly less bureaucracy and significantly more of the personal and material responsibilities of contracting parties. We therefore hope that today, during the debate in which the competent ministry is called upon to participate very actively, these doubts will also be definitively resolved. Only then will we decide in the Slovenian People's Party's Group whether the law is appropriate and whether we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Marija Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. A warm greeting to all present. My position will also cover both proposed laws, so that I will not speak in the next debate. We have two proposals before us for novelties aimed at speeding up the damage caused by the ice at first. The Government has prepared amendments to the Public Procurement Act and to the Public Procurement Act on water, energy, transport and postal services. The purpose of both laws is to simplify and debirocratise procedures. This simplifies and uniformly regulates the award of low-value public contracts which are not regulated by EU legislation and can be regulated by Member States alone. Both proposals include solutions that will enable the rapid execution and award of public contracts to address the consequences of natural and other disasters. Where a public contract is a matter of urgency, the contracting authority shall be able to conclude a contract of procurement without delay, i.e. without a period of standing within which the tenderers may normally apply for a review. On the basis of this exception, it will be possible to quickly issue and execute orders for which the needs have already arisen or will only arise if the purchases due to the consequences of the weather catch are strictly necessary to ensure the basic conditions for survival or for life or to prevent the occurrence of direct threatening damage in the event of a natural or other accident. The proposed solutions also include the discontinuation of the procedure for collecting tenders after the previous publication, the replacement of the mandatory consent of the supervisory authority or the government by means of mandatory notification, and the possibility of modifying the offer and not only its additions. So far, contracting authorities have had to eliminate this offer as incomplete, although they have often been the most cost-effective. The proposer estimates that these solutions will provide more efficient and cost-effective public procurement. The proposal for a new law on public procurement also provides for compulsory public procurement in public institutions, the founder of which is the State. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we welcome the proposed amendments, which is why we will also support both proposals for novelties, namely the Public Procurement Act and the Public Procurement Act on water, energy, transport and postal services. At the same time, we cannot pass the warnings of the President of the State Audit Commission, who presented them on the home working body. He pointed out that the transparency of procurement procedures is decreasing by abandoning the requirement for certain documents and explanations. Whether these are justified, we cannot judge the Democratic Party of the Pensioners in the Group of Members. However, if they prove to be justified, we expect the Government to react without delay with a change in the contested provisions, since the last thing we want in the field of public procurement is to make it possible again to carry out public procurement in a transparent, customeristic and friendly manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 27 and the amendment of the coalition. I ask if anyone wants to discuss this article. I don't see a desire for a debate, so I'm closing the debate. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 2nd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We move on to 1B of the agenda, which is a proposal for a law on amendments and supplements to the law on public procurement in water, energy, transport and the field of postal services under the urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, who is giving up the word. Thank you very much. We continue with the position of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, which is the parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Bojan Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u20	Madam Vice President, I too will be very brief. This law is a twin of the Public Procurement Act, which only regulates this same topic in water, energy, transport and postal services. The method of adoption under the emergency procedure is provided for in the same way. The content is practically the same. Comments were also made on some other articles, but they were substantively the same. There was no debate on the Committee either, and we have adopted the amendments which were forwarded by the coalition and Mr Frangež and put them into the text of the law that we are proposing here for adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first position of the positive Slovenia Group will be presented by Mrs Aleksandra Osterman.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. All in attendance, all in attendance! Today we will also decide on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on public procurement in water, energy, transport and postal services, which is, in particular, being dealt with in the light of the latest emergency procedure. It certainly makes sense just like his twin marriage. The key innovations introduced by the novel have been listed in the presentation of the views on the amendment of the Public Procurement Act, which we have considered as the first today. If I can get a quick summary. The suspension of the compulsory decision initiating the procurement procedure shall be terminated. Instead of proving it, the contracting authority will only be able to request a statement from the tenderer and verify it if it will assess whether it is necessary to verify whether it has questioned the reality of the data or the indications in the declaration. In the procurement procedure, it will no longer be permissible to require further explanations of the award decision after the new award. In view of the need to prevent abuse and to supplement and amend offers, the proposal also lays down the conditions under which the offer can be amended or supplemented. I would like to point out that even after a new one, the value of the item or the total value of the offer will not be subject to a permissible change in the price per unit, unless, in agreement with the tenderer, the contracting entity corrects the error of the offer. There are also exceptions to mandatory rest. In procedures where the contracting authority accepts only one offer, it is entirely pointless to take account of the period of rest. The bill allows for the adoption of a sub-legislative act by the Government, which will more precisely regulate financial insurance in public procurement. Due to the tightening of the financial sector, which, due to the high costs and conditions for the issuance of financial insurance, weakens the competitiveness of public procurement, which has a direct impact on the cost-effectiveness of the procurement and, due to the recent practice of contracting authorities in relation to large-scale, sometimes multiple disproportionate and unnecessary requirements for financial insurance, the seriousness of the offer, the good performance of contractual obligations or the elimination of errors in the guarantee period, the proposal makes it possible to adopt a sub-legislative act of the Government, which will further regulate financial insurance in the case of public procurement. In this regard, the Finance Minister and the Government have already adopted recommendations and informed the contracting authorities, but the transposition of these recommendations is slow, as it is not binding. Dear comrades! This proposal will also be supported by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill will present his position. Have you had anything to do with this? Okay. We continue with the next parliamentary position. Mr Mirko Brulc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Group of Social Democrats, we support the proposed amendments to the Law on Public Procurement in Water, Energy, Transport and Postal Services, which defines an exemption from the rules on public procurement, which will allow for the rapid delivery and execution of contracts, orders for which the needs have already arisen or will be, if the time-consuming orders are urgently needed to ensure the basic conditions for survival or life or to prevent the occurrence of direct adverse damage in the event of natural and other disasters. Public procurement remains an important driver of economic growth as it accounts for almost 8% of GDP totalling around €806 million in 212, which means it is possible to generate significant savings in public funds. For example, the law provides that tenders can not only be supplemented but also amended to ensure greater efficiency, efficiency and effectiveness of public procurement. The law simplifies and uniformly regulates the award of public contracts which are not regulated by European Union law and can be regulated by Member States alone. A more economical and efficient public procurement is also ensured by the introduction of an Institute for Change of Offers. This significant amendment of the law allows tenderers to not only supplement, but also amend, the tenders which do not affect the classification of the offer according to the selection criteria and do not bind to the subject of the offer or the technical specification. The law also provides for an exemption from public procurement rules for the provision of survival and life or for the prevention of the occurrence of direct threatening damage in case of natural or other accidents, including in the case of emergency negotiated procedures without prior publication. In the SD Group, we will support the proposal because it allows for simplification, acceleration and also cheap public procurement. Of course, we expect that future public procurement will focus on green technology consumption through greater implementation of the so-called public procurement. In 2012, 272 public contracts were awarded for which environmental requirements are laid down in the Regulation. The total value was €72 million, representing 4% of the value of all public contracts awarded, which means that green public procurement is being applied slowly. Public procurement will also have to play a greater role in the future in promoting certain economic forms, a social component such as social entrepreneurship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. We have one amendment, so I am putting to the debate Article 25 and the amendment of the coalition. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss this amendment. I don't see a desire for a debate, so I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 2nd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, that is to say the proposal for a law on amendments to and additions to the law on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Here you go, mag. Mitja Mavko, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism is intended to primarily limit cash transactions in amounts exceeding EUR 5,000 and to extend this prohibition by selling goods to the management of services. As a result, the government aims to amend the proposed shift in the payment of higher amounts through controlled credit and financial institutions already included in the system of detection and prevention of money laundering. This amendment therefore introduces a reduction in the cash threshold from the current 15 000 to the EUR 5 000 and is, as we have mentioned, also extending it to the provision of services. The proposed solution is fully in line with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the prevention of the use of the financial system for money laundering. This Directive allows Member States to decide to adopt stricter rules if they deem it necessary. The general tendency of the international community to implement preventive measures in the area of money laundering and terrorist financing is to limit cash payments as much as possible in order to allow traceability of the origin of money. According to many other countries, as well as our own findings and international organisations, cash as a means of money laundering is still a relatively high-risk product, so we introduce its limitation. The experience of our Anti-Money Laundering Office in dealing with specific suspicious transactions cases has also shown that cash transactions are one of those that pose an increased risk. Tax evasions by the use of straw companies certainly emerge between offences related to cash transactions. In particular, it should be pointed out that the proposed arrangements are without prejudice to the regular operation of legal and natural persons, since the limitation of cash operations over a certain amount or its diversion to credit and financial institutions for entities trading in goods and carrying out the activity of services does not constitute additional administrative burdens related to the implementation of measures to detect and prevent money laundering. For this reason, we propose that the National Assembly support the proposed amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body and I give the floor to Mr Bojan Starman, President of the Committee, for his presentation.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u28	Thank you again for the floor, Madam Vice-President. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is held at its 24th session. 2. Consider the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism. This proposal was tabled by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at the 78th ordinary session of 10. 1. 2014 decided that the proposal should be examined in a simplified manner. The Committee received additional working material and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 10. 2. 2014 and the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on the economy, crafts, tourism and finance of 10. 2. which supports the proposal. The Legislative and Legal Service has made a comment on Article 1 and points out, in particular, a consistent explanation of the intention to restrict cash operations. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance, State Secretary Mitja Mavko, Director of the Anti-Money Laundering Office Darko Muženič and representative of the Legal and Legislative Service of the National Assembly of Mags. Sonja Bien Karlovšek. In the introductory explanation, the Secretary highlighted the basic purpose of the proposed text, which reduces or prohibits cash operations from the current EUR 15,000 to EUR 5,000 and stressed the extension of the announced ban on the provision of services, all with the intent of preventing fraud through cash transactions. Following a brief hearing, Mr Frangež's amendment was adopted, which I mistakenly mentioned at the previous point and then the Committee voted on all the articles of the proposed law together. In the light of the amendments adopted by the Committee, a word of the amended law is prepared on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in which the amendment of the Committee to Article 1 is also included. We also propose to the National Assembly such a law for adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u29	Thank you, too. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ivan Grill will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. How nice to say hello to everyone again! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the law amending the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism. As has been said, the law itself only reduces the amount allowed for the payment of goods and services from the previous 15,000 euros to 5,000 euros. All the goods and services above this amount, amounting to more than EUR 5,000, will have to be paid through the competent credit and financial institutions, which, of course, will contribute to a lower risk of money laundering and thus indirectly the possibility of financing terrorism. Unfortunately, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, in this legislation, we miss the fact that the powers of the Bureau of Inquiry to prevent money laundering are limited, so we have already put in place a procedure to amend the law, which will also allow this office to conduct investigative activities, and the Office will also have to report once a year to the National Assembly, and it would extend the range of qualified providers to the Office so that it can collect and analyse data, information and documentation concerning a transaction or person, if there is a suspicion of money laundering or terrorist financing, to the National Assembly, to the working body of the National Assembly and to the investigative committee of the National Assembly. As I mentioned, we will also support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u31	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Mr Branko Kurnjek will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Say good-bye again! We have before us a change to the Law on Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism. As usual, the changes in the law adopted after a reduced procedure are minor. It is essential to reduce the threshold for cash transactions, which is declining from the currently set EUR 15 000 to EUR 5 000, and to extend this ban from purchasing goods to the provision of services. The aim of the proposal is to prevent fraud through cash transactions. Some European countries have made this border even lower. Cash as a means of payment is a high-risk product in terms of preventing money laundering and we therefore support these changes in the Civil Gazette. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u33	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Franz Pukšič will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representative of the government! In the Slovenian People's Party, we will also support this amendment and complement the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism. These are very small changes, small steps in this area, as has been said, coordination with the European Directive, then traceability of the origin of money. If there is no cash payment, traceability can be greater and better. It is perfectly normal for them to support traceability in the course of money for the services provided or for the sale of goods in the State Council. Some have already mentioned that the powers of the Anti-Money Laundering and Reporting Office in the National Assembly should be increased. Given the criminality and corruption that is taking place in our country, this would be absolutely necessary. I hope this happens and the government will be in favour. However, the fact is that there will still be a number of changes to be made in the legislative field. Not only that, but also in any other branch of government, such as the third branch of government, the legal branch, where it is clear from some documents that some of the judicial types somehow do not follow our criminals who follow individuals, but do not give them the possibility to use specific investigation measures, but often even any smaller request, that is, what kind of phone records. All of this could help reduce crime, terrorism, but these are significantly bigger things than these small corrections. As we say, in the Slovenian People's Party we will support these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u35	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, the position will be presented by Mrs Marija Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism. The proposed additions to the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing are, in our view, certainly very much on the ground, mainly due to the traceability of transactions of amounts in the sale of goods and services of the same and higher than EUR 5,000. Thus, in the field of cash transactions, each Member State may, within the framework of the European Directive, lay down even stricter criteria in terms of supervision, control and not least sanctioning. We note that the government's amendment of EUR 15 000 to EUR 5 000 is undoubtedly appropriate and more appropriate, especially in identifying, investigating irregularities and decommissioning of money from the country. We are confident that such solutions will help to ensure greater transparency of the cash flows of all business entities and the collapse of the grey economy. We see this as a mandatory task of overseeing credit and financial institutions. In view of the above, this is a basic objective, and it is also our assessment that the reduced amount is more appropriate and more appropriate for our legal order. We believe that in this way we are helping to deplete the manoeuvre of the grey economy. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we have also followed the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which has mainly drawn attention to the necessary nomological improvements, as well as to the opinion of the Council of State which supports such a proposal. Therefore, we will support Members and Members of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u38	Thank you very much again for your word. Once again a very nice greeting for everyone! Money laundering is an operation that covers an illegal source of money and seemingly shows that money comes from legitimate transactions. Individual countries with internal legislation shall prevent money laundering in a way that restricts the amount of cash transactions and thus prevents the conversion of undefined cash into book money, thereby facilitating transactions and covering the trail to illegal origin of cash. In Slovenia this area is governed by the Law on Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism. The law now in force is in line with the European Directive, the third Directive, and has already put in place a ban on cash transactions for amounts exceeding EUR 15 000. According to the European Union's assessment, this is the appropriate limit where a high risk of money laundering and financing of terrorism begins. The current law is therefore in line with European law. This is a very important conclusion. The amendment under consideration today reduces the amount of cash-for-profit business from the current EUR 15 000 to EUR 5 000. The conditions for cash transactions for the sale of goods and for the provision of services shall also be equivalent. Thus far, the law has laid down a ceiling on cash transactions only for the sale of goods, but not for services. The Government states in its proposal to amend the legislation that it wishes to consolidate the effective exercise of the powers of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia to prevent money laundering and other supervisory institutions in relation to the investigation of the crime of money laundering prevention and the seizure of assets of illegal origin. In spite of this explanation, the Government did not, by means of amendments and amendments to the law, intervene in Article 8 of this Act, which regulates the mandatory review of a business entity by a bank or another payment organisation in each transaction of more than EUR 15 000 on the purpose and nature of the business relationship under which the transaction is carried out and then reporting to the Office on such transactions. The government has therefore not reduced the threshold for compulsory control of payment transactions from the current 15,000 euros to 5,000 euros. Clearly, changes and additions to this law do not aim to increase the country's effectiveness in investigating money laundering offences, but the government wants to increase the state's control over financial flows in the country. Above all, the real purpose of this law is to cover up the additional rehabilitation of the banking system at the expense of the citizens. In particular, any purchase of goods or the payment of services rendered above EUR 5,000, which already represents the purchase of slightly better furniture, cars, smaller repair services and the like, will have to be carried out through a bank or another paying organisation, which means that every citizen of the executed payment service of the bank will also have to pay in the form of a commission. Since the number of financial transactions is the largest for smaller amounts, such legislative changes will be known in bank financial flows and will again burden citizens or consumers with costs. The Christian Democrats of New Slovenia do not support such additional burdens on taxpayers. Above all, we do not support such a disguised way of rehabilitating the banking system in a way that provides them with additional inflows through non-bank services. We are taxpayers, and we will cover our contribution to the resolution of the banking system by means of executed recapitalisations and through a bad bank. Banks, however, need to be financed mainly by banking services, because they actually justify their existence. The proposal for a law on changes and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism will not be supported by the Christian Democrats of New Slovenia, nor will we oppose it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u39	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group, Positive Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Aleksandra Osterman.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. All in attendance, all in attendance! The functioning of the State institutions is crucial to its functioning and the state of democracy. Money Laundering Bureau, that's how it feels, we can be wrong, it works if I use that expression, in the shadows. One of the reasons I'm doing this is because I don't have clear investigative powers. Therefore, it is not at all difficult and without reservation to support any amendment to the existing law if the implementation of the amendment will be a step forward. The note relating to cash payments will not prevent normal transactions in goods and services. It will not make it impossible, but it can contribute to tighter control and transparency. The Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia will definitely support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u41	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 22nd meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 11 a.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u42	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Please check the operation of the voting devices. We continue with item 1a of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement by Emergency Procedure. We shall proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which we shall carry out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 6 June 2016. 3. 2014, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 27. Gradually, Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš wishes to speak
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u43	Thank you very much, President. I request, on behalf of the Positive Slovenia Group, that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure before the vote, you order a 45-minute recess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u44	Thank you. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Before I order a 45-minute recess, I ask if anyone wants to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups to the amendment by 27. A member. I guess not. In your own name, does anyone want to explain their voice? No, no, no. I conclude by explaining my vote and adjourning my session. We'll pick her up at 11:45.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u45	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen!We are continuing our work. I ask if it is possible for the head of the proposed leave group to submit a report from the consultation. He doesn't want to. I propose that you check the functioning of the voting apparatus, as we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 27. We're voting. 57 Members and Members present, 37 votes against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 27 of the amended bill and I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table an amendment to this article. I'm guessing it's not an express interest. That is why we are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I find that no amendments have been tabled for the third hearing. At the same time, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. Therefore, we are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a law [[..]] We're voting on the law. There are 75 Members and Members present, 48 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interrupted 1st item of the agenda, this is the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Procurement in Water, Energy, Transport and the Field of Postal Services by Emergency Procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 6 June 2016. 3. 2014, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 25. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, in favour of 49, against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. Since the amendment to Article 25 of the amended Law was adopted in the second reading, I ask qualified applicants if they intend to table an amendment to this Article. I guess not. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Once again, I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading, but I am also informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would make the proposal inconsistent, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. Mr Franz Pukšič has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Perhaps it would be right for us to say, at 1.a, but at 1.b, because we also expressed our views on both laws together. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u47	Mr Pukšič, we have made a statement to the vote, so this has been done. Even at 1st point.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u48	The President, yes, you've done your job. I didn't do my homework. But if I said so then I wouldn't now, but it essentially relates to both marriages. That's what I was going to say. In the position of the Slovenian People's Party, we said that we would decide on support or non-support both legally in accordance with the clarifications that took place on the labour market itself, when the President of the State Audit Commission pointed out in three points that the amendments to these two laws were inconsistent. First time. He said that the removal of the decision to initiate the procedure was not good enough to allow certain anomalies to occur with this decision to be taken on the initiation of the procedure, which, however, were crucial both in the provision of funds and in the preparation of documentation and in the avoidance of public procurement. Another time. It was said that all regulations at the level of the European Union require that tenderers participating in the procedure be given the opportunity to be informed of the reasons that led to the choice or not. And the third time, which is probably a key amendment to this law, is the issue of change in supply. Since much has been said at this meeting of the working body about corruption, corruption and manipulation that are taking place through public procurement, the president of the audit committee has in fact pointed out that such changes in these two laws will not contribute to the reduction and also to the objective to which they are intended. No, this means reducing or removing certain administrative obstacles in terms of a faster public contract to address the consequences of the loan. It would be much better to adopt this with some intervention law, rather than changing systemic legislation in this way. In the Slovenian People's Party, as I said in my position, we will not support the law, otherwise we will not oppose it because it is an understanding, but we are aware that you are making a catastrophic mistake in systemic legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u49	Thank you. Can we make a decision? Mr Grill has an explanation of vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u50	Thank you very much. I cannot support this law myself, nor will I oppose it, because the debate here on the Committee of the Mother Labour Body was indeed well-intentioned by the President of the State Audit Commission. In practical cases, he explained the dangers this law poses, although he believes that the intention of the applicant was well-intentioned and that he wants this area to be regulated, that public procurement is faster, more cost-effective, but that he has highlighted in three areas matters which in practice will certainly show that it will lead to inconsistencies and certain problems. For this very reason, we decided not to support this law, nor will I support it, even though we originally had the intention of supporting it when we read it. However, the text of the law is so complicated that, through reading articles, it is not possible to understand all the shortcomings and can only be demonstrated through implementation in practice where the traps are. The State Audit Commission has the most experience in this area, it faces numerous complaints and inconsistencies on a daily basis, and this has also been pointed out. This is a key reason why I cannot support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u51	Thank you, too. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 48 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of item 2 of the agenda, this is the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Mr Horvat has an explanation of vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr Secretary of State, Secretary of State! Let me repeat, my colleague Ivo Dimic and I will not support this marriage, but we will not oppose it. Those who have carefully studied this law know that it is, we can say, a new tax, it is a new burden for citizens and citizens or banking committees. Europe allows cash operations up to €15 000. Sometimes we say, "Oh, this ugly Europe, how it chokes us." Now we're choking ourselves. We're going with this limit of 5,000. Nice and right, the intent of the law is basically fine. Look, the money launderers are talking about millions. Yeah, there's a million more than 15,000 and more than 5,000. The point is that when you have to pay for a used car for 5,000 and a few euros or 5,000 500 euros when you pay furniture for 5,000 100 euros or something else, all of this will have to go through the bank. We usually do that, yeah, normally, we do that, of course. But we can also have cash, for these and other reasons, and they have cash. And now everything's gonna have to go through having to pay the bank a commission. Here I am talking about a new tax, a new burden, so on our part this law does not deserve support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u53	Thank you, too. Anyone else want a word? We can decide the law. We're voting. 74 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, these are questions from Members and Members. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Franz Bogovic, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of Mags. Alenka Bratušek to the question of the Member State of the Republic of Bulgaria concerning the unnecessary costs of citizens and citizens for the introduction of a real estate tax. Mr Franz Pukšič has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u54	Thank you very much. We have spoken so much about the real estate law in this Chamber that, if there were any benefits, some 400 million euros could have benefited long ago. This did not happen because of the government and its stubborn insistence on an abnormally ill-prepared law and abnormal procedure. If we are talking about a system law, we also need to systematically approach it and address possible shortcomings before the law enters into force. More. The law is in the Constitutional Court, and before anything happens, the government predicts corrections. In this part it is good that she learned her sins, kneeled before the citizens and said, "Dear citizens and citizens, forgive me, we did it after some inertia, somehow we hoped that you would be quiet and that you would give the last fica out of your pocket." A lot of this has happened in the past. A specific case, colleagues and colleagues, many of you are in here, who was once a saint or still a saint or also a mayor in the municipality – changing the spatial plan. By amending the spatial plan in some area, you have identified further developments for the next five or ten years. Today, there is an insignificant forest, a field, or something like that. Tomorrow, when an investment happened, it would have a completely different value. But citizens and citizens were given a month ago and a few copies of their land worth €7,000. After this law was enacted, they were informed that their land was worth 200 000 euros. It is a common field or a common forest that is not in this function today. I hope that these amendments will also take place when this legislation is amended. If not, the cost of people, municipalities and all the actors in the chain will be so great that they will all demand, want, regardless of the development of local communities, to turn their lands back into agricultural or forest lands. I think it's good to have this debate. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will also support the request for a discussion on the response of the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u55	Thank you. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present. The vote was 29 to 44. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that this decision is not adopted. In line with the proposal by Mr Horvat, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of Mags. Alenka Bratušek to the question of Mr Horvat on government measures to raise economic growth. Mr Jožef Horvat has an explanation of vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u56	Thank you again, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, I ask for your support in this proposal. Although I am an opposition Member, I am not disdainful of the possible successes and possible good actions of this government. I am not indignant, so on Monday I first congratulated all those, especially those in the economy, who helped us to create 183 million more in the last quarter of last year than in the last quarter of 2012. Of course, I cannot congratulate you for the same amount of the state budget, exactly for 183 million, the deficit is recorded in November. I have asked very precise four questions to Madam President of the Government. Unfortunately, I didn't get any concrete answers. I asked what measures the Government attributed to raising economic activity during the period from the acquisition of power to the end of last year. There was not a single single action by the Government of Alenka Bratušek. I asked if real estate tax would also affect the growth of economic activity. Above all, I mean here and I have specifically highlighted a small economy, which represents almost 90% of the Slovenian economy. Traders, entrepreneurs, small entrepreneurs say they're on the verge of despair. Third question. I asked whether the country's enormous indebtedness at the time of the government of Alenka Bratušek would in the future or perhaps now contribute to an increase in economic activity. There was no answer. Furthermore, which measures to raise economic activity are planned by the end of the mandate. There was no answer. Yesterday was the answer, ladies and gentlemen, by Mr Olli Rehn. I'm worried, I'm worried about our citizens. If the government can't get anything together, let's get together and have a discussion. Let us choose and set at least three priorities for raising economic growth. And this is necessary, a thorough debate is needed in order to define at least three priorities and then implement them in the framework of legislation. That's why I'm asking you to support my proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u57	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, there is an explanation for the vote of the mags. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u58	Your Honor! In the Group of Members, we will support this proposal from New Slovenia. We would also like to know directly from the Prime Minister, which are those measures which she has set as a priority at the beginning of this government's mandate and which would be aimed at increasing competitiveness or economic momentum. We have been faced with concrete measures going in the opposite direction. A number of taxes were introduced or raised. A very specific example is the real estate tax, which will in particular affect the medium sized economy. A number of data from economic operators show that the transaction will be paid in particular in the Slovenian countryside, not in the centres, several times higher, including up to ten times higher taxes by independent entrepreneurs or economic operators. Then we have a whole bunch of new administrative burdens here. Different things are more expensive and newly introduced. Let's say expensive vignettes for combined vehicles, which are, in fact, often the basic asset of entrepreneurs. Then we also have continued indebtedness to the country and also a decline in credit ratings. This all affects the more expensive money of the economy, the credit crunch is not over. In fact, we will be interested in the assessment of the Prime Minister, which are those government measures that contributed to this relatively positive data for the last quarter of the year. But I'll be more interested in the following. What would be the positive results for the last quarter if there were no government action? I estimate that economic growth would be at least 5.6% if it were not for these measures. As these measures have been, this growth is relatively affected by these measures. That is why I think that such a debate should be supported. She'll probably be a little fun when we have to create some kind of action from nothing. That's what it says from what it's not, you're gonna have to find something that is. Therefore, it would be appropriate, respectable, to support this proposal from New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr Jože Tanko has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I do not think that this national council has yet seen any Prime Minister showing such great enthusiasm for the economic growth shown and, on the other hand, the very specific question of what measures have contributed to this economic growth would not be able to list a single measure after a year of the operation of his government. Not a single action. And I think it is appropriate for us to support, I will support the New Slovenia proposal to discuss the Prime Minister's response, because I think that we should all be able to understand what has contributed to this change, this economic growth. The only measure the Prime Minister managed to mention in the National Assembly was one of the strong economic growth barriers. It cited the introduction of one tax, one tax, and I strongly doubt that the basis for economic growth is such radical blocking measures that are only extra burdensome for both households and companies. I think that, on the basis of the Prime Minister's response, we should also propose to someone for the Nobel Prize for Economics, because in this way it is very problematic for us to achieve economic growth and to boast about the government's actions here. Probably the basis for economic growth is somewhere else – in the measures previously taken and now have had effects, and in particular in this enormous effort of the economy for export markets. As I say, I will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u61	Mr. Andrej Shircelj has an explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will also support the New Slovenia proposal to discuss the measures proposed by this Government to the National Assembly and also to the economy for greater economic growth. The underlying reason is that it seems that the criteria for what is good for the economy, what is good for the public financial situation, are probably different here. It is likely that the government, together with the Prime Minister, has completely different criteria than the European Commission has in doing so. The European Commission reminds us of the great imbalance at macroeconomic levels, the increase in the country's deficit, not only because of the banking sector, but also because the spending is not running out, is being spent more than it is actually generated. On the other hand, the country is assessed with very poor entrepreneurial conditions for growth of economic operators, the banking system is not working, bureaucracy is high. There are many reasons to discuss the measures proposed by the government of Alenka Bratušek and what it will do. This is mainly because the European Commission has announced greater control over macro-economic movements and also over movements in Slovenia. Finally, is this success also in the 130 000 unemployed and in the draining of the most popular and most educated personnel that we actually educate in Slovenia? The theme is multilayered, and therefore I think it is necessary to discuss this in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u63	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u64	Thank you very much. I will also support this proposal to discuss measures to stimulate our economy, those measures that the Prime Minister did not want to talk about in response to parliamentary questions, because the problem was probably unaware or did not want to talk about. He needs to be aware of that from yesterday. Also on the basis of the European Union report. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the duty of all Members to bring Slovenia out of this impossible situation once, to hold this debate in order to force the government to adopt these measures. The Prime Minister recently assured us that we would implement the measures ourselves. We, as Members, must now, especially as coalition members, do everything we can to ensure that these measures are implemented. See, according to my information, the new Minister of Economy is also inclined to have such a debate, which would encourage him to have more power within the government. Let us hope that you are inclined to do something in this direction. I therefore expect from every responsible Member who has some responsibility before his constituents to the Slovenian public that we will go with a common strength to talk about this, so that we will allow the government and the new Minister to prepare measures to promote the development of the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr Franz Breznik has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u66	Your Honor! I think that the debate proposed by colleagues from New Slovenia, including the question raised by the Prime Minister, is in place. All I can say is that such a debate would really be based on all the indicators that somehow the Prime Minister of the Government has shown that in Slovenia economic growth is starting to start, they would be in place. In particular, this debate should be expected or seen in two parts. In the first part, we should invite a whole range of small businesses or family enterprises that have fallen in this period, which are also moving to neighbouring countries. On the other hand, we could invite a number of heads of government and country, Italy, Austria and Germany to thank them. We would like to thank them that they have taken measures to take measures to give the economy a new wind in their wings, that these companies have begun to export heavily. A whole range of companies, engineers, technicians in Slovenia, who have worked hard during these years, who have received new orders to export today, at the expense of their good work, their so-called measures can be exported today. This can be seen by all indicators of Death today, respected colleagues and colleagues. Export alone, which was not affected by policy, is the only macroeconomic indicator that has somehow demonstrated this economic growth. That's what this debate would show. I would show that we have done nothing to make the neighborhood around us, neighbouring countries, do what we should do. It is clear, however, that the future will show what my colleagues have already said today that macroeconomic indicators and the European Commission clearly show that they are concerned at least in the medium term, and Slovenia is still in terrible contact with reality. I hope you will support the initiative of New Slovenia to hold this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr Matevž Frangež has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u68	First of all, I am pleased that Slovenia – Slovenia, not its government, has succeeded in achieving 201% economic growth in the last quarter of 2013 and thus ending the long-term recession, only statistically. I believe that this is undoubtedly due to the Slovenian economy first, but I hope that the ruling policy has also tried to create a favourable environment by strengthening international stability and, above all, Slovenian stability within this framework. It's totally irrelevant who brings medals for these results. It is now important that we maintain this stability in order to try to take those measures that will also ensure that this trend continues. Even by being able to correct those things that we have accepted so far, if the assessment is that wrong moves have been made. But the prerequisite for this is a more constructive atmosphere in this national assembly, not that we will be in every darkness, even in the midst of the good news, first in the fight, who is to blame or who is to blame. And since the intention of the issue is also more focused on the latter, I will not support my colleague Horvat's proposal alone. However, I would be happy to support any real prey for a real debate on what Slovenia must do. Yesterday's warnings from Brussels are a clear sign that most of the task is still ahead of us, and if Slovenia wants to carry it out, it must therefore form significantly more consensual measures than before.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u69	Thank you. We vote on the decision. 75 Members and Members present. The vote was 27 to 46. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Tank, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of Mags. Alenke Bratušek on the question of the post office of Jožet Tank concerning the property tax. Mr Jože Tanko has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that. Warnings by Members of our parliamentary group, warnings from members of other opposition parties, warnings from civil society and others in the real estate tax process have not been received. That is why this tax, which the coalition has adopted, has become a nightmare, a nightmare of the government, a nightmare of the economy, especially a small economy, and, of course, the nightmare of citizens who have some property. I have asked the Prime Minister very unequivocally whether he believes that the property tax, which is the subject of the Constitutional Court's assessment, has been applied for by a number of groups – political, civil and so on, fair if it distributes burdens fairly. The answer was that he was just. However, I wonder how this tax can be fair if the government has at the same time taken a step towards amending such a basic law, this is a law on the mass valuation of property, as well as a law subject to constitutional review. So the Prime Minister here, in this communication, has actually lied about the question of the Member State. The government is thus correcting the basic law and is also correcting the rates or factors of taxation of individual real estate groups for individual taxpayers. This I think is a big problem for us to get from the Prime Minister to such a concrete question such an answer. I also have to draw attention to the following. The taxpayers for this tax are many who have waived land or municipalities for the construction of local, municipal infrastructure or public local or state-owned enterprises for the construction of other infrastructure. Many of the land is unplanned because companies also went bankrupt, many of the land is usurped, and buildings are built on them, and so on. The subject of all these procedures in administrative units, on the Geodetic Administration and where there are, in fact, unregulated landscaping situations in which state institutions are involved. I must say that it makes sense to me that this issue of the introduction to real estate and, as a result, the mass valuation tax is being discussed in the National Assembly, or we will be witnessing another major fiasco following the amendment of both laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u71	Thank you. The explanation of the voice in his own name is given by Master Andrej Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! One morning in January, Members of the Social Democrats, Desus, the National Gazette and the Positive Slovenia voted in favour of the Real Estate Tax Act, thereby taking responsibility for implementation and in fact for each of the provisions of this Act. There has been chaos — chaos in the legal field, chaos in the Geodetic Authority, chaos in people who change their status, who change their residences solely because of the law. In addition, the Government notes that something is wrong and has begun to amend the law by amending it through the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estates, which is likely to determine in the transitional provisions how a complaint can be addressed against the decision of taxable persons. This only increases chaos, and this has already been found in my personal opinion in the general debate before the Constitutional Court. To put an end to chaos in order to ensure the stability of public finances, in order to enable people to settle their relations in a dignified manner, their property relations, I support the debate in the National Assembly, in order to actually determine where we are in the real field, in the legal field and what we can do here. I call on Members and Members, in particular the coalitions, to support this proposal, because it is primarily their responsibility for the situation on the ground, for the situation on the Geodetic Authority and for the legal situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u73	The explanation of the vote first Master Andrej Vizjak, and then there are more of you, so I will allow you to apply later. Here you go, Mr. Visac.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u74	Your Honor! We probably all remember that night when the coalition really adopted the Real Estate Tax Law after the express procedure and thus started a project that caused considerable excitement for the Slovenian public and caused a long line before the offices, in particular the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia. This thing happened before people even got their decisions. And I wonder what would happen and what would happen if such an orderly and well-established law were given decisions and a procedure of various objections against it would arise. I cannot forget the case, when law was also applied to unprepared terrain, specifically new social legislation. Remember, dear colleagues, in 2012 a new social legislation was established, which caused thousands of, tens of thousands of complaints. He's saving the Ministry of Labour today with a one-and-a-half-year delay. No complaints have been resolved since July 2012. Minister Svetlik is the Minister who is of the kind of SD responsible for the adoption of new social legislation and bears full responsibility for this matter. And this coalition also bears responsibility for unfair solutions. Tell me, does it seem fair to you that a weekend at sea is more taxed than an oil plant, like virgin oil in the same territory? Agricultural buildings are taxed with 0.3, non-residential and weekends with 0.15. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u75	Gradually, Mr. Happy Meh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u76	Mr President, memory is a strange thing. Who was the Minister for this area in 2012, Mr. Vizjak?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u77	Mr. Meh, no controversy is allowed. Procedurally you will be [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u78	In 2012, Mr Svetlik was the Minister of Labour, someone else's family, not Mr Svetlik. It's not true. It's not right. To talk to the SDS about being in 2012, it's not right, it's not true.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u79	Mr Meh, you have abused the instrument of the procedural proposal, so I suggest that we do not proceed with such practice. Procedural mag. Andrei Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u80	Your Honor! I know that it is difficult to assume responsibility for the fiasco experienced by the new social legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u81	What will be your procedural proposal, Mr. Vizjak?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u82	That from you, the honourable President, who is the President of Parliament, we get the information that the Minister has advocated new social legislation in this Parliament or, last but not least, was the one responsible for the consequences in 2012. This is Dr. Ivan Svetlik, current Rector of the University of Ljubljana, then Minister of Labour. Mr Meh will not be helped by referring and pointing his finger at others, especially because he is obviously ashamed of the mistakes for which SD is also responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u83	Thank you for the procedural proposal. However, we are in the stage of explanations of vote and several of you have been declared for reasons and I suggest you apply for explanations of vote. Mr. Joseph Horvath has an explanation in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u84	Thank you, Mr. President. I will support the proposal of colleague Jože Tank, and so will colleague Iva. See, perhaps this debate would be another last hope to annul this law, to go into a new and correct concept of taxation. We, Nova Slovenija, are not against property taxation. But we are in favour of a righteous real estate tax law being passed here in this house. I think it's also important to point out here to those state authorities that keep records and run them catastrophically badly. They may have brought the government down, here I stand on the side of the government, but the government is obliged to get prior information before proposing to the National Assembly a law relevant to real information. Maybe you don't know, but I'll tell you how the data transfer from the Land Book to GURS is going today. Very primitive. Ladies and gentlemen, for the purposes of calculating this tax, I am sure that no data model has been made at all. Some have been dead for 36 years, such as the case of my fellow Member's father, and those who have been in the grave for 50 years have been given informational calculations. Isn't that making a fool out of citizens, from families, from descendants? Someone can sue the country. Therefore, the debate is first of all to see what is going on with the data in order to be able to calculate the property tax in an exact manner. This country does not have this exact data, and there is no way that it can handle it in one year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u85	Thank you, too. Mr Jerko Čehovin has the floor to explain his vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u86	Thank you. I will not support the proposal for a number of reasons. The Law on mass evaluation was adopted in 2006, and the first census was made in 2010. Now we're four years later. There was enough time in various governments to reconcile these base records. But they didn't. Nothing has been done at this time and this government cannot take responsibility for what some other governments have not done before. Secondly, I cannot support the debate on something that some are proposing to end. Why would it be necessary to discuss it if it was a basic proposal to break the law? And the third argument, which is why I will not support this proposal, is that the government, the responsible policy itself, will determine its mistakes and can also remedy them. Therefore, I repeat, I do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u87	Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will support this proposal for a debate tabled by Mr Jože Tanko. I will support him mainly for the reason that I am convinced that this law is absolutely unjust. I think that in the last time these informational calculations came to our Slovenian households, we have had enough of the reasoned reasons that this government and this coalition have brought together. And I remember very well when we discussed this law in the National Assembly at the marathon session, where we asked Nova Slovenije, Slovenian Democratic Party, Slovenian People's Party to this coalition and this government not to commit suicide and not to do what was done. And look where this government and this coalition have brought our citizens and citizens again. Total chaos. I only hope and believe that the Constitutional Court will decide in favour of the Slovenian people and thus protect this government and this coalition from what follows it. Slovenians and Slovenians, believe me, for a certain period of time they allow themselves to be harassed by politics, but this has exceeded all limits. And believe me, the moment of truth will come. I only hope that the Constitutional Court will do this in due time, as I think it is right, and thus protect the Slovenian people from this tyranny and the way it has chosen and carried out by this coalition and this government over its people.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u90	Thank you very much. I will support this debate because the question to the Prime Minister was whether it seemed to her that the burdens of real estate tax were fairly divided. We all know they're very unfair. And that was one of three opposition questions to the Prime Minister. She did not respond to any of the questions in substance, nor did she answer with an elementary responsibility. Perhaps I understand her most when she did not answer, for the questions involved the rightfulness of burden - sharing or injustice. We know that justice is not on this government's agenda, justice to citizens. Even with the real estate law, it has so unfairly hit certain layers of the Slovenian population, by farmers, by hard-working workers, by sweat, by stings, and now they are taxed on average and draconically. I also understand the Prime Minister because she was still in the euphoria of celebrating and manipulating data on the end of the recession in Slovenia on Monday. It was she who used it for manipulation at the time, sobering up, and this suffering soberingness came on the ashtray with the European Commission's information that it was not appropriate to do so, because this government had done nothing to actually get the country out of trouble. And it is noted that the only country in the European Union has not made progress. That is why this debate is necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u91	Thank you. Mrs Romana Tomc has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will also vote, of course, in favour of this decision, to hold a debate on the response of the Prime Minister. However, I will give another very important reason why I will vote in a way that has not yet been mentioned by my colleagues or anyone else. You will recall that at the time you all voted in favour of this law because this law and its financial consequences amounted to EUR 200 million, a condition that the budget could be adopted. Because without this real estate tax, the budget would not be closed. And let me remind you, the Prime Minister has tied a confidential person to the budget, to a closed budget with the 200 million euros that this real estate law brings. Today we see in total chaos on the ground that the government has also come to know this and is proposing changes to the real estate law. Regardless of what the Constitutional Court will decide, these changes proposed by the Government will also bring about a substantial reduction in the revenue from the real estate tax on the budget. So the budget is falling, and thus, of course, the confidant that the Prime Minister has attached to this budget. That is why, of course, I think this is an extremely important reason to vote to discuss this response and, of course, to ask and discuss on this occasion how the Government intends to resolve these matters further.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u93	Thank you. Mr Franz Breznik has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I think that this debate is necessary, my fellow Members, and my fellow Members. It is as necessary as when I had a reasoned debate in this National Assembly at the time of the adoption of this Act. I was talking about the economic basis and the constitutional dispute, particularly as part of the income of local self-government, which will be limited, and in one case very much eliminated. That it's constitutionally controversial. The other thing that is is income itself. The collection of this tax is expected to be more than EUR 200 million. At the moment when we are talking about this, it has been announced in the media that the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, in which nothing has happened for a few months, has approved a moratorium on the payment of the principal to ACH, owned by Herman Rigelnik, and to the financial company of Mr Petan, which owes 280 million euros. On the one hand, with a particular methodology to be discussed, these are small craft workshops, small craft are taxed at 0.75% in this tax rate, agricultural facilities with 0.3%, weekends of certain political privileges in this country, the second weekend, the third weekend, the fourth weekend in the Martuljku forest and the fourth weekend in Piran are taxed at 0.15%. That's the methodology. Here you can also see the ethics of the people who voted for it, and you can see what the view of the economy is. That is why I believe that this kind of debate is at the heart of all the current developments in Slovenia. Thank you very much if my proposal is also supported by the others.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u95	Thank you. An explanation of voice is still an interest. I invite you to sign up for an explanation of vote. The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I will support this proposal for a debate on the response of the Prime Minister. Of course, we must also be aware that the debate on the answer alone will not repeal the law adopted by this national assembly two months ago. And that, of course, is a huge problem. We do not gain much by doing so, so I would expect the Government not to make any cosmetic adjustments at the same time as the Constitutional Court is considering it. I think that the result — corrections and the Constitutional Court — will be some confusion that I do not know how we will eventually come out. I would expect from the coalition and from the government, of course, most certainly from the government, what we have been saying for the past two months or speaking out loud when the law was adopted to freeze this law for about two years. At this time, it is possible to arrange all these records. For this time, it should take some other intervention measures to replace revenue shortfalls in the state budget. Surely this would be a better journey to prepare and adopt a real law that will not do extraordinary wrongs among individual taxpayers for the payment of property tax. The government should therefore come up with a proposal to freeze this law for two years, this time to introduce some other measures, and at that time all those things that are not regulated will also be settled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u97	Thank you, too. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor, and his explanation of vote is being rejected. Mr Zvonko Černač has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u98	It is certainly necessary to support the debate on whether the burden of this property tax is fairly and proportionately distributed. If we look at individual cases or if we look at the whole thing, we can find out that we don't. The PM ensured that the richer and the poorer would pay more and less under the law. According to this claim, the fact that there is a large tourist farm with apartments, underground garages and so on on the coast of Bužekian property is worth 31 000 euros. With a mortgage of EUR 5 million signed up, and a year and a half ago, it was sold for EUR 9 million and a half. This claim is probably contrary to what the facts say. In line with this claim, the fact that some will pay taxes on non-owners of objects. Even for objects placed on their lands without their knowledge and contrary to their will. In line with this claim, the fact that large trading centres, i.e. those who are richer and have paid no compensation for the use of building land in the amount of three to ten times the current tax, will pay three to ten times less. Specific example: EUR 152 000, after a new tax of EUR 42 000. So don't hold what Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek tells us publicly here in the National Assembly. According to documented facts, her words can be described as lying and misleading. Which is rude. It is therefore necessary to open this debate to finally pour ourselves some pure wine and to find out what is wrong with this tax and to eliminate the bad solutions, to discuss how this area should be regulated in the future and to adopt a law that will be fair and proportionately distributed.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u99	Thank you. Can we make a decision? Not yet. I'm opening an application to explain my voice. Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u100	Thank you very much. I will open a proposal for a discussion on the response of the President of the Government in order to stop the melting of the government in operation or in the preparation of new taxes. Look, the Prime Minister of the Government has made the law, the property tax justly divides the tax burden. At the same time, when it is in the constitutional audit procedure, it proposes amendments that reduce the tax burden on certain properties by more than 3 times. Let's say residential, non-residential properties. What's fair now? In fact, there is also no concept in the government, as we have here a statement by the Minister for the Economy of Dragonje that it also proposes a lower rate of property tax for small businesses. And again, some other ministers have a different approach. I think it is right that a debate is held in the National Assembly, so that we can also find out in advance where those shortcomings of the Real Estate Tax Act and also the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estates are. Otherwise, this story will have a constitutional review of this law and can be repeated by the law on the mass valuation of property. The case may also be brought before the Constitutional Court. With this no government or no one will gain absolutely nothing. If a serious approach is to be taken, and I think that the coalition that has made a fuss should be interested in taking this matter seriously, in order to discuss the Prime Minister's response. I will support the proposal for a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u102	Your Honor! I will also support the proposal for a debate on the response of the President of the Government, because it is an extremely important topic which, I would say, does not create now, but draws everything from the adoption of the 2014 and 2015 budget. At that time, our warnings were very clear, very loud, that the budget was based on completely unrealistic foundations. Today, this shows what we were constructively confirming and asserting at that time. The tax, one of the biggest financial revenues, was the real estate tax that was, I would call it, still in the air. And that's in practice today. Today, from one extreme, we go to another extreme. From day to day, we change the values of property valuation and we come up with such unfair, unfair valuations of taxes. Look, this weekend is taxed 100% less than a taxed agricultural facility. The agricultural facility maintains the Slovenian countryside, a Kosovo of unprocessed hilly areas, prevents cultivation in Slovenia. Today, luxury in Slovenia is less taxed than agricultural land and production facilities. I don't know where it's going. I'm sure that's not the right direction. This is an important topic that needs to be discussed that the government will not be looking for a fire solution from day to day, I would say, fire solutions are good because fire solutions solve. These government solutions are not even fire-fighting. So the debate on this subject is extremely important and I will support it myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u103	Thank you. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 41. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Franz Breznik, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Cufer, to the question of Mr Breznik's question on the reprogramming of loans. Mr Franz Breznik has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u104	Thank you, Mr. President. As you may have heard, the Bank Claims Management Company has concluded an agreement for a one-year moratorium with two companies, Mr Petan's financial holding company and ACH holding company owned by Mr Rigelnik. These two companies owe 280 million euros today. That's a little bit more than a complete real estate tax. At the time of the main payment moratorium, they have a 1 % interest rate. 1% interest rate, respected colleagues and colleagues! The question that comes before us is comprehensive: do they also have the same conditions as other companies or other entrepreneurs that have set up all their assets that have lost because of the market situation, which may have had a weak entrepreneurial idea and are today at the Banks Claims Management Company where they were relieved. What do these two gentlemen mean? We know you're both members of the 21st Forum. What methods and methodologies have they determined this? I think this is a very important story. I asked the Minister of Finance, in his case also the supervisor of the bad bank, specifically. There was no answer. In fact, I didn't get any answer, in any way, why it specifically concerns the two members of Forum 21. On the other hand, ACH is supposed to be decommissioned and the Grand Union hotel is supposed to be sold. You won't believe it. In the media, I find that he's being sold by an ex-resulter, Mr. Frumen, who is the main seller currently wanted by the Grand Union. We can track this from the media. This complexity that we are talking about in the Slovenian Democratic Party, the former State Security Service, which is still in the economic sphere today, in the banking sphere, is incredible. She's amazing! And the whole kind of society where the good owners were flattered is now at a bad bank, they don't have any moratoriums, and these people are getting moratoriums. And in the end, I have to say, look at their dividend payout stories! They are totally out of business, one is out of Terme Catež, the other is draining Adrio Mobil, who is a good company, has good products, has good markets, pursues high goals. And these companies will slowly, I can say, stagnate, become uncompetitive. The question is: What is the basis of a bad bank? Is this the rescue of businesses, or is this the rescue of owners, those owners who have converted their political privileges through the transition process without money, without their own money into the shares of former companies? I think this question is the basis of our transition, our failed transition. I believe that you will vote in favour of this proposal for those who have a healthy mind, who are honest Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u105	Thank you. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 47. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Zvonk Černač, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Čufer, and the Minister of Infrastructure and Space Sam Omerzel to the question of the question of the Minister of Finance, Mr Zvonk Černač, on the issue of real estate taxes. Mr Zvonko Černač has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u106	Thank you. We will support this debate because there were no or no answers. In the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have given timely warning of the trap of this law, which has been adopted despite these warnings. In mid-December, we tabled a request for constitutional review and suspension with three other unrelated Members and both Members of the Nationality. In addition, five such assessments were submitted. As you know, the fate of the law hangs on the decision of the Constitutional Court. As a result, the law in force before is not implemented, under which the municipalities have already issued decisions on the award of compensation for the use of building land. Unless something changes in this area in a short time, the budgets of the municipalities will be seriously threatened not only by state public finances but also by the budgets of the municipalities. People who have received these informational calculations in the past days and weeks have expressed their excitement in front of officials. Most of these people got calculations where this tax was administered 3 times, 5 times, 10 times more than before, in some cases even 30 times more than before! In hundreds of thousands of cases, mistakes were made. There was virtually no information calculation that would be correct. On the basis of all of this, we have heard that the cumulative amount of property tax after these informational calculations, where everyone received higher amounts, except for some privileged richer individuals, is EUR 407 million, which is 13 million less than the estimate that was on the table when this law was adopted, which in our view is not the most reliable data, so we want to clear it. We want to find out how much information calculations are per employee, by degree, by category, by municipality, by region. We want to get clear and transparent data on the cumulative amount of this tax on the basis of these first informational calculations. This is the first reason for this public debate. Another reason is that these records or that these errors are hundreds of thousands. According to the Prime Minister, they will be regulated by people on their own, with GURS informing them that they no longer have free deadlines. The Prime Minister also said that until these records were settled, the tax will not be applied. So it won't be ten more years – or what? In this way, as the government has now begun to regulate these things, this cannot be settled within ten years. This can only be arranged in such a way as to bring the records together and correct 90% of the errors in these records. It wasn't predicted, it wasn't done, people were still walking around the offices, and they were throwing their anger at officials who weren't guilty. We propose that this be discussed and that we seriously discuss this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u107	Thank you. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 45. (For the vote was 26.)(against 45.) I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal by Mr Puksic, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Economic Development and Technology Method Draganje to the question of Mr Puksic's delegation regarding the withdrawal of the public invitation to co-finance projects in the field of development of new projects in 2013-2015. Mr Franz Pukšič has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! We will support the request for further explanation of the Minister on my question in the Slovenian People's Party. In fact, we are most interested in the creation of conditions for the Slovenian economy, because the creation of conditions for the Slovenian economy is also far more likely to eliminate the catastrophic situation of Slovenian people. The number of unemployed has increased by over 130 thousand. Young people send us a number every month, how many young people are out of work every month. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that recalling the call for innovative projects made does not contribute to further development and economic perspective. If such errors had not occurred many times in this government, then they would probably not have received a report from Brussels, where we are rightly reminded of the indebtedness of the Slovenian economy and the increase in public debt. That too will have to be answered in April. With a debate likely to take place next month or at the next meeting of the National Assembly, if adopted today, and I hope that the Minister of Economy will have the opportunity to clarify these specific matters and the measures he will introduce and also to tell his policy whether he will continue to direct it to various calls adapted to individual lobbying. This was precisely the last call for innovative projects, which led to the resignation of former Minister of Economy Stepišnik. It will be shown whether the Minister of Economy has brought what I even believe could be a new spirit to the government, where the next subsidies will not go the way, but in a way that creates conditions for the economy. This means reducing taxes and everything else in order to achieve economic growth. And then we will talk about the beginning of the increase in employment, economic growth and the end of the recession.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u109	Thank you. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 45. [[The vote is 24.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Alenka Jeraj, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Culture, Dr Uroš Grilca, to Alenka Jeraj's question on the destruction of archives. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 45. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Vinko Gorenak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Culture, Dr Uroš Grilca, to the question of the question by Dr Vinko Gorenak on the accessibility of the archives of the former State Security Service. On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, Dr Vinko Gorenak has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u110	Thank you very much. My question was directly linked to the question posed by Alenka Jeraj. The essence of the question was whether after eight years, as far as the 2006 law applies, everything was set up and done in the same way as the law states. That's whether or not we have all the archival materials of the State Security Service that were created before 17. 5. 1990, in the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia also physically. This is what the 2006 law provides for. The answer was no. It means they still have more than a metre of archive material in Owl. And we've had an illegal situation for eight years. Further, let me say that around the archival law the things that are happening after our announced submission of the referendum initiative and the collection of signatures are taking place in a somewhat unusual way. We are witnessing an unnecessary waste of money on the referendum. It is very clear that this account belongs to the left-hand side of Parliament, the coalition, because the law has proposed and voted, despite the fact that we have announced the referendum initiative much earlier. Secondly, the minister said he was sending a group of experts to Belgrade to try to figure out what to get out of there. The answer is more or less already known because the trials have already been great, most likely we will not get anything from there at this time. The archive of the Republic of Slovenia began days ago, I would say, an anti-referendum initiative, although the time for convincing voters is not yet running by law, and some archival material began to be published. Of course, people probably think, but now we're going to be able to read everything online for a while. But that's not true. The archive publishes completely irrelevant documents. It publishes reports on the work of the Ministry of the Interior, publishes plans for the work of the Ministry of the Interior, but there we will find nothing, nothing that interests us. And these are the murder planners, the perpetrators of the murders, and everyone else who made that decision. There's no data on the Internet, and there won't be. So it's just a simple deceiving. My proposal was, therefore, to vote on this request for the National Assembly to discuss this and I propose that you support this decision as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u111	Thank you, too. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 45. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that this decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Ljub Žnidar, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for Dr Anja Kopač Dark to the question of employment by Ljub Žnidar. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u112	Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal to hold a public debate on the subject of employment, because in Slovenia unemployment is on the rise from day to day. It will grow even more with the introduction of the new taxes that the government is preparing, and with the non-consistent real estate tax, this number of unemployed people in Slovenia will increase strongly over the number 130 000 unemployed, as it is now. The statistics aren't pink either. 97% of Slovenians believe that the situation in the field of employment is poor, 58% believe that the situation in the future will be even worse and only 7% of Slovenians believe that the direction of the current government is going in the right direction. I'd say that's a very disturbing statistic. Work as the basic value of every citizen and the end of the country's own survival and survival is extremely important. And this is an important topic to discuss. The Minister has given quite a few nice words, but in the very actions of these concrete measures she does not feel and there is no trend or optimism to stop the unemployment trend or turn in a positive direction. So I believe that this topic needs to be discussed and thus contributed to an improved situation in the area of the unemployed in the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u113	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 42. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that this decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Member Marijan Pojbič, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Economic Development and Technology Method Draganje to the question of Mr Pojbič on the situation in the Slovenian economy. Mr Marjan Pojbič has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The economic situation in our country is extremely, extremely critical. This, I am sure, is what we are all aware of, sitting here in this House. As you know, unemployment has grown abnormally lately, to over 130 000, which means an extremely, extremely critical limit. There are virtually no new jobs in the real sector. Public and national consumption is virtually not decreasing. That government rents loans out of control. Unbelievable! We have reached a point where we are already at 75% of the gross social product. This means three complete state budgets. For three years now, this country must not spend a cent if we are to repay these credits that we now have. If you remember, in the last days, that is, yesterday, before yesterday, the European Commission also warned us about this problematic situation in our country. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the problem we face in Podravje. Unemployment has already reached an almost magical 20% limit there. In Maribor, the economic situation is extremely problematic, from day to day we receive a request from the Chamber of Economics from Maribor addressed to all Members and ask us to do something to prevent a complete collapse in Maribor. The government visited Maribor six or seven months ago, if I am not mistaken, promised between €50 million and €60 million. Maribor didn't get a dime until now. And this government and this coalition are talking about solving this country's problem. But when we find out and all of us have already come to realize that the whole thing is going in a completely different direction, our economy is being further burdened. As I am sure that the most important topic of this national assembly and this current policy is now the economic situation in this country, if we are to get this country out of this crisis, it seems to me that no Member and Member of Parliament can sit in this House that would not vote in favour of a wider hearing in the national assembly. If we find out that the government has completely failed, at least I hope that the National Assembly will not do so. Those who don't vote for it, you're working against [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u115	We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 45. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Ambassador Alenka Jeraj, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Economic Development and Technology Method Draganje to the question of the mission, Alenka Jeraj, on the implementation of European cohesion policy. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 45. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal by Mr Dragutin Mate, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment of Magi. Dejan Jedana to the question of Dragutin Matei on cohesion projects in the field of water supply. Mr Zvonko Lah has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. The priority of Minister of the Jews in the field of the environment is water supply. I think every Slovenian household has the right to healthy drinking water. In cohesion projects, some 114 million projects have already been approved in last year, and 113 million projects that have not been funded have been prepared. Projects approved in 2013 are also projects that are over 30 million and whose feasibility is very questionable. When the Ministry requested confirmation from the mayors that the projects would be carried out in this financial perspective and therefore the funds or municipalities would not have to repay these funds if the projects were not completed, which did not result in seven projects receiving statements from mayors or investors. So, the question is whether these projects will be implemented. For 113 million projects prepared where the contractors are assembled and contractors pay bank guarantees, they extend bank guarantees. For all these projects, municipalities have already spent about 10% of the value of the project itself to prepare project documentation, land purchases, etc. Most of the projects that we have already run in the past year are clear that these projects, which have been approved last year and have barely started, but not one of them, will be difficult to complete in 2015 and in 2016 the municipalities will have to build with their own resources, but if they are not completed in 2016, the municipalities will have to repay all European funds with interest. We therefore believe that it would be good to hold a debate in this House in order to determine those projects that will certainly be completed and those that will not, either phase out them into a new financial perspective and include new projects that are ready, or tell the municipalities, to all those who have the projects ready and have such costs to cancel the operators so that they do not yet make any additional costs. If they have bank guarantees, they can't get bank guarantees for other bank guarantees transactions either. There is a great deal of damage being done here, and this government is solely to blame, because the previous minister has ordered that projects be prepared to be funds, but now they are simply not there. And there's going to be a disaster in certain parts.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u117	Thank you. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 45. [[It was voted on 26.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft Law on Self-Health in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a self-medical act is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 62 votes against 3. [[It was 62 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Given that the assembly has adopted a decision, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Hemp Law proposal under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a hemp law is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 55 votes in favour, 5 votes in favour. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Access to Public Information. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 3. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 2. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Coalition's Group to Article 3. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 23. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the parliamentary groups of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the Slovenian People's Party, New Slovenia to Article 8. Here I warn you, if this amendment is adopted, the amendment under points 2 and 3 will become irrelevant. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, we are ahead of an extremely important decision. We are at the amendment, which is substantively the same as the amendment of the Civil Gazette, but I suggest you support our amendment so that there will be no blinding. What is the purpose of this amendment, and what is the imperative objective that we must do in this House? That all the bad loans that are still in banks, which for unknown reasons have not been transferred to a bad bank, will certainly be for reasons that some borrowers of these loans and some creditors of these loans and some administrations are dedicated to people in this country. And if we do not vote today that this will be fully opened, this data is not about business secrets, which deceiving the last days and which two of the biggest coalition parties reportedly succumbed to. Ladies and gentlemen, this argument to compete with this and not know what to do in state-owned companies is thus attractive to hair. If we had this transparency and openness so far, then our banks wouldn't have been looted, our companies wouldn't have been takounically seized. We'd still have property owned by the state and by the citizens. Now those who have been robbed and are still in position are shouting at what will happen to the terrible. So they can steal and steal and legalize all the money. If we do not confirm it, believe me, colleagues and colleagues, that before the judgment of the people you will be guilty of allowing the state and citizens to be illegally looted.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u119	Mr Jerovšek, I must point out that, in the stage of explanation of vote, there is no possibility of politicisation with others or of preventing them from voting. You have to explain how you vote [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u120	Here we simply need to be convinced because the citizens are looking at us and we are responsible. And there's no derogation here, and there's no reason to change anything. And that's an imperative, and that's a higher value than what's trying to convince us from behind to convince those who're sitting on stolen money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u121	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, Mr Jani Möderndorfer will explain his vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u122	Thank you very much, President. This performance has shown how important the issue on which we will vote today is. The amendment by the SDS Group in fact does terrible damage to the basic, fundamental principles of banking not only in Europe but throughout the world. We can only agree in one part. The law before us is one of the more important laws with which we start a lot of things and a lot of questions about transparency of business. With this amendment, we are interfering with the fact that we will make two types of banks in this country. One will be state banks, which we have filled with 3 billion and a half taxpayers' money, with one goal to remedy the banking system. On the other hand, we allow this same amendment to allow the committee members of these banks to live in fear of falling for such or other reasons, for entirely average reasons, including for what bad bank credits, will be published on the websites and will actually go to private banks. By going to private banks, we will consciously begin to reduce the possibility of normal competition between banks. The second thing that seems very important to me is that even the profession does not stand for such decisions. The Bank of Slovenia strongly opposes such an act and, more importantly, neither does the proposer, who should in fact follow the basic principles, namely, that such an opinion should be forwarded by the European Central Bank, because we are interfering directly with this amendment in the system law, the Banking Act, the operation of banks. That is why in the Group of Positive Slovenia we have decided that such an amendment, which is more than obviously harmful to the banking system and, last but not least, harmful to all the money invested in the banks, because with this amendment, we will cause an even bigger bank hole in the long run. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u123	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janez Ribič will explain the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The amendment to Article 8 tabled by the Slovenian People's Party together with SDS and New Slovenia will, of course, be supported. I think we are considering a law that is much more important today than it seems at first sight. Why this is so much more important because there is currently one of the largest nationalisations in history. The country has practically supported the three largest banks in Slovenia, and in parallel, the Banks Claims Management Company is in the process of recovering bad debts or bad debts. A few billion euros has been invested in all of this! Do we even know what that is? Do we even know what these few billion would mean if we could reduce our burdens or give relief to our economy? If we had spent a few billion differently, would we still be in crisis today? Would there be another 130,000 unemployed today, whose number is increasing from day to day? Probably not. But we had to put more than 3.5 billion euros into banks. Today, some still claim that despite all this money, people must not know what is going on in these banks. It's not true what kind of business secrets we're supposed to be doing! What bank secrecy in banks where we're throwing billions and billions of dollars in a system that has used this law on confidentiality brutally to harm citizens and citizens of this country. We will therefore support this amendment and the following amendments, which are tabled by the opposition and also by the National Gazette, in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u125	Thank you. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat will explain his vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u126	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague and I will support this amendment. Of course, we've been thinking a lot. We know that the matter may also be problematic, but the minister who is the bearer of this revolutionary law, if I use his word relationship, is attaching this amendment to it. We are also aware that we are in the Eurosystem, that we must respect some of the order in force in the Eurosystem. As a member of the parliamentary commission of inquiry, I would like to answer the questions of taxpayers and their requests, which are: Take those that have taken away from us. We do not have any tools for parliamentarians. We don't. On behalf of banking secrecy, which, of course, is the supreme banking apostolic, we do not get any data, not from the Bank of Slovenia, nor from commercial banks owned by the State, not from a higher court and so on. We don't get anything. Thus, we must remain silent and prepare money for the new recapitalisation of state-owned banks. I'm not playing this game again. I believe and I can honestly say that this amendment can be problematic. What else can we do to answer people who are to blame for the fact that some, not all of us, understand each other, some bankers who have been turned into criminals have emptied our banks? People today don't know how to close the month financially. If the majority of the coalition has any other proposal, please come with a proposal per day. Now or never! It's been three months since we recapitalised Slovenian state banks. What are the results, ladies and gentlemen? What does the economy of the Republic of Slovenia have? Voice from New Slovenia for this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u127	Thank you. We are moving on to an explanation of vote on our own behalf. Since there are more of you, I suggest you sign up for an explanation of vote. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u128	Thank you so much for saying that. I am against closing archives, many of which we are talking about here today constitute crimes. If the banks want our money to be capital-appropriate, then I'm about to know why we give it to, who we give it to, what we give it to and what happens to it. I would also like to know who those who spent money in banks were in dispute or criminal ways. It is because the banking system does not work that the government introduces new taxes, raises existing taxes and demands solidarity from citizens to cover the bank hole or socialises this bank burden without taking any step towards determining the causes and actors for the bank holes. I do not think it is worthy that, when solutions are prevented, both in the banking law that we have proposed and also in the view of these banking files, it is also a matter of preventing insight into the work of these banking superhumans, which are not subject to any rules. That is why I propose, and I myself will support this proposal for a solution that we have proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u129	Thank you. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! For the recapitalisation of New Ljubljana Bank 1 billion 551 million, New Credit Bank 870 million, Banko 348 million and two private banks, Probanko 176 million and Factor Banka 269 million. Dear citizens and citizens, you who listen to us here today will pay for it. And you must not know what and who your money will go to. Here, this is your power, this is your government now, this is how it's done with you. When you pay for this, we will take even more because two days ago we heard another billion or how many minus in the New Ljubljana Bank. And when you pay for it, they come from Europe and tell us what they will have to do. Anyway, now we've taken you down to your pants and shirts, a little bit longer, and you lose your pants and your shirts. Colleagues and colleagues, preventing the adoption of such an amendment is banking terrorism, banking [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u131	Mr. Puksic [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u132	terrorism. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u133	I must warn you that in the stage of explanation of vote, there is no way to politicize it. You tell your content view why you will object.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u134	Yeah, well, I think it's banking terrorism. Or, in other words, the place of the century that has already happened. But if it did happen, citizens and citizens have the right to know. We don't get any data on banks, we can't know anything, people are asking us what we're doing, we're questioning. And all those who come, listen, not just to make fun of it, even require reimbursement of travel costs, that they come to say [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] And they didn't say anything about what happened. And if there is no point in this country that there must be no coalition and opposition, there must be a national assembly and these bastards should step on their toes. [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u135	Thank you. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Mr Jerko Čehovin has the following word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u136	Yes, it is difficult to discuss normally after such an event. Of course, I can immediately find out that so far neither the National Assembly nor I have personally been informed of any lobbying for the benefit of private banks. I wasn't. This amendment actually favors private banks. And then we're really going to pay twice or three times the recapitalisation, what we're talking about right now. Because any normal economist who has a bank loan, like rank C after ratings, will take his credit today or tomorrow, as soon as we adopt this law, and will go to another bank. Whether it's Sberbank, whether it's Banka Koper, whether it's Generali, whether it's another bank, here or abroad, and this bank is going to buy it back and establish a new relationship. Do we even know what we're doing with it?Oh, my God! We are directly damaging this economy. We sabotage this country with such an amendment, proponents! I really don't know what we're dealing with anymore, or where there's any common sense. Last but not least, we don't mind, and if we're being honest, this marriage that is being adopted today is opening up as a shell. There was virtually nothing to talk about other matters than this Article 8 as if it were the centre. Those who have their voyeur tendencies should go look at other things, not interfere with banks. Anyone who's been directly lobbying with private banks should also tell their taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u137	Masha Kociper has an explanation of her voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Personally, as PS, we have actively and uncompromisingly supported all the provisions of this law, which we hope will lead to greater transparency and the fight against corruption. But this amendment, like many times before, has gone over the border. He's opening a bank secret in our opinion in an unacceptable way. I can't be surprised if they support him. I certainly won't. The ones on the left that you're saying here you don't know why those credits that were left at commercial banks that weren't transferred to a bad bank wouldn't get the same treatment, and I'm asking why those loans stayed at commercial banks. They stayed by the criteria accepted by your government. Minister Šuštersič proposed a law setting out the criteria by which loans will be made to a bad bank. And someone thought these loans could stay at commercial banks. Why? Because they have judged by professional criteria that they are not yet bad loans in the sense that they would be dead loans. And tomorrow, from a D or E rating, they can become a C. Maybe. If not all those who have such transactions that deal with banks that have loans will withdraw their business from the bank tomorrow. To avoid misleading, such criteria have been confirmed by the Bank of Slovenia, the European Union, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Persecution authorities have all the rights under the Banking Act under the previous legislation to review these loans remaining on commercial banks and the bank authorities have the same obligation to report to law enforcement authorities if there is a problem with these loans. For me, the voyeur interest of some in any case does not outweigh the interest in protecting the banking and financial system of that country. And those who destroy the banking system [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u139	Thank you. In the meantime, I would like to point out once again that the explanation of vote does not permit the politicisation and accusation of others. Please, let's stick to this. The next one has the word mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Here some dilemmas may be justified. However, if we look at who the entities referred to in Article 1a are, then we see that these entities are much more. And it's not just the Bank Claims Management Company. That's the first thing. The second thing I would like to say here is, under the law governing the Banks Claims Management Company, we have an interdepartmental commission and it actually decides what will and will not happen to anyone. There are most members from the Government, the Ministry of Finance, some also from the Bank of Slovenia. On this basis, these loans are actually transferred. Given that this goes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, it is, we can say, not only an expert decision, but also a political decision. Given the changes in the banking system and the fact that the actual situation in the banking system is something else than we imagined, in fact today 6 billion loans have not been transferred. These are the data of the vice-governor of the Bank of Slovenia. 4.5 billion at book value has been transferred, which means that we have not actually made bank recovery. We have not made bank recoverys, and this is why the New Ljubljana Bank or its leadership is still talking about two billion bad loans. In other words, the fact that these loans are, was not clear why they were not transferred, and it is not clear that the Slovenian banking system is dependent on this. This is why I will support this amendment because the banking situation has changed so much today that it actually depends on how much taxpayers pay for these banks. In fact, there is no final price today. And even with all the limitations of this law they have the right to know [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u141	Thank you. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u142	Your Honor! I listened with great interest to my colleagues who were saying how harmful this amendment was for the banking sector. Firstly, we must be aware that we live in the Republic of Slovenia, that we do not live in Liechtenstein, we do not live in Switzerland, nor in Austria, nor in Germany, we have some long banking tradition. As far as we have it, our banks are known precisely because they can be dug up by part of a political group with their supporters. So we're not gonna do much damage. But there's only one thing we can do. All those who were thrilled about the situation in Iceland a few years ago when they literally dismantled the banks. And that is absolutely necessary. We need to dismantle the banks, expose them to the realtors, see who these people are, who is a whole bunch of bank employees who have been robbing banks for 20 years, put them on the road and put them together for a new one. In the second case, you will have to ask citizens and citizens a question. What does the average entrepreneur have to do with the state-owned banks? What were the chances of quality loans he was getting? Why did a whole range of entrepreneurs hire loans for their projects in commercial banks or banks outside the Republic of Slovenia? The question is, why do we even have state-owned banks? And that's a typical question. We won't do any harm with this. We must show those who are part of this problem, expose them, throw them on the road, show them who these people have been with, and then place the banking sector on new foundations. On a healthy and new foundation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u143	Thank you. There's still magic to explain the voice. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let's move from high theory to real practice. In 2008, my company took 2 million credits for building the hall and buying machines. This is now a bad loan, a bad loan, because we don't pay it back because the crisis came in. I made the wrong decisions and, of course, it's a bad loan. What's wrong with that? Nothing, ladies and gentlemen! You can watch these credit cards as much as you want. On the credit side is the signatory on behalf of Interlesa Ivan Vogrin. But on the lender's side, there are people in the credit bank who are there. You can watch as much as you want. Why can you watch? Because the credit was deliberately spent on buying machines and manufacturing halos. It's still in Vollika. You could watch it on TV. What's wrong with that? So if we're not hiding anything, ladies and gentlemen, we can watch everything. If we're not hiding anything. What are we afraid of? There's nothing to be afraid of. It doesn't matter if there's this credit on the bank or if it's at a bad bank. I don't care about being a borrower because I can't pay him back anyway. It's a real fact, it's a practice. But if people were hiring loans, and they were buying yachts, if they were, I don't know, transferring, I don't know where they're speculating, yeah, but then a lot could have happened. And then people are afraid. What would we be afraid of if we weren't hiding anything? Citizens and citizens let us tell Interles' credit went there, he went there, he went there and so on. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u145	Thank you. It's still an interest. I suggest you sign up for an explanation of vote. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u146	Thank you for your word. I'm listening very carefully to the explanation myself. I say in advance that I will support this amendment, as well as the next amendment that the National Gazette puts into consideration for a similar reason. Indeed, this amendment must be supported for one key reason. The same people who have been lending are now transferring credits and evaluating them after what we can see and what we cannot see. Such practices are unknown in any country or in the world, except in the European Union. Now we are faced with the fact that the same people who in the past have given these credits and made a hole are now evaluating them, transferring them to a bad bank – and they can be seen. The ones that the same people think we won't move to a bad bank and keep them in their parent banks because they're just as bad investments and we can't see them. But we're treating them with the same taxpayer's money. There is a practice abroad that those people who have done bad things will withdraw and wait for things to be settled, but they can't get involved in the same things first. And if that doesn't open your eyes, then God help us, I think there's gonna be another bank recovery next year. And the only thing this amendment and the next amendment want to bring is that we can look at these loans. And if you trust the same people who made these holes, then we've come a long way, and this House doesn't know what it's for, if we sit on the same flossules all the time, that we always have to protect one and the same. But when it comes to hitting a small man, it's no problem, we make the laws as much as you want, even if the Law and Law Service sees it differently. The key problem is that you trust the same people who dug the hole, and we can't even see why they dug it, or how they're gonna bury it. I'll support the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u147	Thank you. Mr Marko Pavlisic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. I'm also interested in why some loans have been transferred to a bad bank, others, bad loans, we're only talking about bad loans, the worst ones, they're not transferred to a bad bank and they're staying in a state-owned bank. According to information from the media, such credits are still the majority. So the minority has been transferred and the minority would have been exposed by this, and most remain at the bank. Because that's what I'm interested in, I'm going to support the amendment. I'm not going to support this, but the next one that's being filed by the Civil Gazette, but the content here is very similar in this regard. If I support this, then I can't do that, but ours is better from this point of view. Here I must make it clear that it is clear to everyone that the publication that someone has a bad credit does not constitute a criminalisation of this work. Of course, many times bad credit has come about for business reasons, for perfectly justified reasons. This isn't about criminalizing these bad loans. Similar fears that we have today before the publication of these, I will say, bad loans, we also had in publishing tax debtors. Remember that debate about how many businesses will go bankrupt because we will announce that they are owed to the Tax Administration, that they owe their contributions to workers and similar matters. And what is the truth today, quite a while after this first publication, how many companies have gone bankrupt because of this list? Just name me one company. We're afraid of something here, and we don't know exactly what we're afraid of. But let's do it once with this fear and the time is here for serious change. I therefore call for you to vote by your own knowledge to reject the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party and to support the amendments of the Civil Code. Thank you. I apologize for violating the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u149	Yeah, the call's off. We proceed with the explanation of vote. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u150	Thank you. I'm going to support this amendment myself because I believe it's good. However, because I believe that he will not be voted on, I will do a favor to my fellow citizens and support their amendment. The whole red thread of this meeting of the National Assembly is public, transparency, the fight against corruption. But when we come from words to actions, a lot of people get stuck in their throats or press the wrong button. Why is something being transferred to a bad bank, but something remains out there, hidden from the eyes of a bad bank, the eyes of the public? Indeed, so many speeches, we will make order in all areas, but it must always be devoted to some who are hiding in the background, their work must not be revealed, no, but for them this coalition, especially colleagues from Positive Slovenia, so European liberals find a way to cover them. This amendment is by no means about favouring private banks, but it is about detecting bad loans from bad tycoons. We don't have a problem opening it in the SDS. Those who oppose the amendment will show exactly what they are for and for whom they are, we are for the public and for the availability of this data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u151	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek will explain the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u152	Thank you very much. It is amazing, ladies and gentlemen, to justify covering the names of those who have received loans without guarantees who have taken the money they have granted them. And that's why they're going to leave our banks? They'll be much safer. There'll be a lot more confidence. If we had it from the start, this robbery in our banks wouldn't have happened and we wouldn't have taken so many factories. The citizens know that. And you're protecting the robbers who aren't ready to accept it today. To appoint the interest of citizens to have the right to know who approved loans without guarantee, without covering, who the borrowers of these loans, with the military interest, with the notion of sexual expropriation, are the regret of the citizens of Slovenia that has not yet happened. They want to know who took the money, who approved it?Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen, the interest to cover this up, even in this Chamber, is limited to those who have benefited from this money that has been stolen. And with Zolai, I accuse the one who is not willing to support one of these two amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u153	Thank you. Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Hello, everyone! I will not support the amendment. Why not? As we say in life, trust in the work of bankers, trust in the work of doctors, trust in the work of lawyers is the one where people as citizens, as citizens, want to have some degree of privacy, including protection of secrets, personal secrets. Amendments like this amendment go to extremes. This extreme means that obviously someone wants to destroy banks owned by the country, NLB, NKBM, Abanka in Slovenia. On the other hand, he obviously wants citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to think about it and question the work of state banks. The level of confidence in the work of state banks is now at a sufficiently high level. However, those who debate today, as they are discussing, obviously do not trust the commissions, obviously do not trust governments – at which time did the government accept the most loans? Some of these credits on DUTB are also on the bad bank. The arguments that go in the direction of desecration, destruction of confidence in the work of Slovenian banks are unjustifiable. Therefore, I cannot support this amendment because as a bank, I do not want people to start questioning and distrusting Slovenian banks. This amendment has no basis to support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u155	Thank you. Mrs. Romana Tomc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u156	Thank you so much for saying that. And I will support this amendment as well as the amendment of the Civil Gazette. Because not supporting this amendment would mean supporting Slovenia with double criteria. That's what we've been doing so far, and we don't want to do that anymore. One criterion applies to one another, the other criteria apply to the other. One rule is applicable to loans and the other criteria for equally poor loans are entirely different for the bad loans that have been transferred. The trust that is supposed to exist in the banking system has long been broken. Remember on December 13th, last year, when there was an unknown euphoria on the government side, because stress tests showed that the bank hole was about €5 billion. The Governor of Banka Slovenije recently stated that 6 billion bad loans were not actually transferred to a bad bank. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are talking about large numbers, numbers that go very cross. But they tell us something, we haven't actually figured out how big a bank hole is. Our citizens and citizens do not yet know how much more taxes they will have to pay to cover this bank hole. And since we're gonna cover it, we want to know about everything. If we are obliged to pay for the errors of some, we want to know who caused these errors and also to call them to account.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u157	Thank you. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u158	It is very ungrateful to stand here today and oppose this amendment. But I will do this because I am sure that Slovenia must make decisions that will make it possible to recover this country with some sense. In the context of poor investment, I believe there are three tasks, three equivalent requirements if we are to return Slovenia to the path of recovery. First, to enable a company to manage the claims of banks or a business bank that owns a debt to properly restructure them in business and financial terms. With a reprogram, with a moratorium on repayment, by prolonging commitments, we can give the economy invaluable oxygen to make it easier to breathe and service its obligation and hope for a better time. Banks today have sufficient capital to enable the economy to do so to its debtors. The second task is to repay the largest possible proportion of the high public funds that we have invested in the resolution of the banking system with the smart management of these claims, either at the Bank's Claims Management Company or at the Bank's own business bank. The third task is the prosecution of crime, which accompanied the emergence of such a large bank hole. But I warn you, these are three equivalent tasks, in the context of the banking system, we should no longer act as an elephant in a porcelain trade, but rather by measuring measures choose those who will strengthen confidence in the Slovenian banking system and banks to protect against large and excessive deposit swaps. Let us not forget that the crisis in Slovenia is primarily due to economic developments in the world. It's only secondary because of too much crime. [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u159	Thank you. Mr Ivan Simčič has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I myself will support the amendment for a simple reason, because in our society they always have fear when we want to check something. We checked something three months ago, two years ago, a mountain was shaking, a mouse was born. If we go to the banks, look, there are some people in this country who have a salary of over 5,000 euros. And among these are the ones we're talking about today. But when we talk about property taxes, we are talking about pensioners who have between 250 euros and thousands of euros, and they are not a problem to tax. And one more thing. If I go back to the local place, we don't know what this country is and what it's credited for, we don't know. And now my citizens and citizens will at least see who is the one who has credited this country, because in our place we have neither the exposure of the New Ljubljana Bank nor the NKBM. Do you know who we have? Koper Bank. Did you hear that she has a problem with us dealing with her? You're not. We've got the SKB. There was no debate about this bank either. That's why I'm going to support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u161	Thank you. Mr. Bojan Starman has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u162	Thank you so much for saying that. I will not support the amendment because I think that the amendment of the Civil Gazette is more complex and covers practically the same content. However, I agree with most of the predecessors, we have enough of this, and it is imperative that this amendment makes it possible. The only way is to prevent such scoundrels from happening again. If – that is what Mr Jerovšek said earlier, if we had already made public all the bad claims, when they were made, there would not have been such a hole. No body or Banka Slovenije has taken any action to prevent this from happening. I don't trust any anti-corruption commission, court, NPU, anyone to investigate anything. The only thing we can do is let the public, the press, and all that. That's the only way we're gonna stop any further shit. If we don't, the hunt is open. Credits are already being shared, which are now known to be bad, and we know what a hole will be like. Come on, please, back up this amendment and make sure these bastards don't get here. Who's gonna get hurt? The only damage they'll have is those bastards who stole through the banks all the time. But it will benefit all of us because we will not have to cover these huge losses with small salaries and revenues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u163	Thank you. Mr Marijan Pojbič has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u164	Thank you, Mr. President. I will support this amendment. Today, to talk about trust in the work of bankers – who in this House hopes to express such a sentence, and when all of us sitting here know how, with the help of those who run these banks, billions of euros of our taxpayer money have been pumped out! And then we can talk so easily that we have to trust someone again and again and again. No! No! We have a right to know where the money went that we taxpayers are paying for. We have every right because it's our money. It's not bank money, it's not money from the European Union or someone else, it's our money, our people! Mine and all those who are at home, where I come from, every citizen and citizen of the Republic of Slovenia! And we have every right to know how to manage our money. With this amendment, we only want to achieve that public data will be those credits that are on the bad bank, as well as those bad loans that remain on the banks. I'm sure those of you who don't support this amendment are protecting those bad loans left in the banks. Protect! I don't know why. What kind of interest are you doing this with? Do you have any of these? Besides, I don't see any reason for us to do this. You have no right! No one in the National Assembly has the right to prevent a Slovenian person from having the right to know how to manage his money. And I ask you to support this amendment, or the amendment tabled by the National Gazette, that we have the right to know about all the credits that are in the bad bank and that remain in the banks, all that is necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u165	Thank you. Well, the same is true, Mr Pojbič, that it is not allowed at the stage of explanations of vote to politicise or expose other colleagues because they cannot answer your questions. Are we done with the explanations of vote? Not yet. Procedurally, Mr. Franz Pukšič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mr President. Otherwise, at the moment that I raised my hand and said procedurally, I realized that you were going to fix it, which has now been going on for a while. It is right to give the opportunity to open up an explanation for the vote to Members and Members, as we had before. I believe that five Members and Members have now applied individually and this has been prolonged from minute to minute, so I think it is only logical that you give this opportunity to register when the opportunity for explanations of vote is opened.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u167	Look, Mr Pukšič, if there is only one hand raised, I can give my word to the person who has applied. If there are more of you, I automatically invite you to the application, so this is also a consistent practice for all those who hold the meeting. Mr Zvonko Lah has an explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u168	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Look, I don't come from banking. I don't know much about finance either, but after all this debate, I have the farm's wisdom to make the right decision, and I will support this amendment even if the amendment of the Civil Gazette is not adopted. When we listen to the position here, how we need to trust banking experts, Banka Slovenije, and I don't know what else. Didn't Banka Slovenija buy some Greek bonds for a few hundred million when it was already known where Greece was going? How can we trust bank experts when last year's banks lost a billion 400? Do we trust that? Why should we trust these experts to do their own thing? We are the ones who give the marriage ground how to work for you, if we cannot trust them, and I do not think we can trust them, given that every few years we have had to pay billions for their bad work or support for crime. Those committees, when you say our state banks are going to lose the boards, they're going to go somewhere else. Those who don't want to pay back their credits, which should go somewhere else. Let them go to private banks, foreign banks. Those who will repay these loans have gone for a fair purpose to get credit, but those who will care what bank they go to. They will not be afraid that their loans will be reviewed or that we will have an insight into these loans. Since taxpayers need to put billions in these banks every year, we need to lay down rules so that we can have an overview.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u169	Thank you. We are moving to a decision or vote on the amendment of the SDS, SLS and NSI to Article 8. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 46. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under point 2, we are moving to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code to Article 8. Here I would like to remind you that if this amendment is not adopted, the amendments to Articles 12, 21 and 26 will become irrelevant. However, if this amendment is adopted, the amendment to Article 8(3) becomes irrelevant. Can we make a decision? Explanation of voice. First of all, on behalf of the Group of Members, I invite you to report. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, once again! We will also support this amendment of the National Gazette in the Slovenian People's Party. The fact is, a huge financial hole has caused catastrophic social damage. The banking system is seriously compromised by this financial hole. The banking system is not compromised by someone taking a bad loan out of the bank. He won't be here! Thank God if you did. How do you do that? I don't know. We will be Slovenian taxpayers, paying out of their pockets for decades, including their children and grandchildren. Therefore, Slovenians and Slovenians, citizens and citizens, have the right to know which of these companies will be transferred to a bad bank and which are those companies that will remain in state banks, although both have the same credit status – D and E. D and E credit means that credit is not repaid for more than half a year or a year to be contested legal procedures, in short, they have corruption nuances. Citizens and citizens have the right to know what amounts of credit they are, who they are, and who remain in the bank, whether transferred or not. Citizens and citizens have the right to know on what basis these credits have been granted to them. Hello, Mr. Director, this is me, god and beating, give that guy and then credit. There's a lot of credit like that. I didn't just say that. What I've illustrated comes from the KPK report. What I have illustrated comes from witnessing to some on the commission of inquiry. There is no reason to distinguish between bad loans at any bank or at a bad bank. Colleagues and bikes, if you succeed in stifling this amendment today, we promise you that in a very short time we will reinstate the amendment of this law in this particular area. We won't give you any peace because we won't let you sleep peacefully for those you promised to stay in the banks and not be exposed. We know that these are pals, such or different, that there are many behind this, so we will support this amendment in the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u171	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the National Gazette, Kristina Valenčič has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u172	Thank you for your word, Your Honor. In the Civil Gazette, we are convinced that we must restore citizens' confidence in the measures we have taken to rehabilitate banks, trust in the Bank of Slovenia itself and also in the government itself. We are convinced that the only remedy we can legalize for the responsible and careful treatment of state property is transparency. A huge bank hole has shown that normal supervisory mechanisms have been cancelled and that the only possible measure is public control. We have therefore tabled this amendment to Article 8 in the National Gazette and we will also unanimously support it. This is an amendment requiring the disclosure of basic data on bad credits of Class D and E that have not been transferred to a bad bank. Let me be clear again, we're talking about bad loans that bankers like to call dead in their jargon. We are talking about credits from legal entities and not from natural persons, loans granted by banks owned by or receiving special measures from the Republic of Slovenia. So about NLB, NKBM, Abank, Bank and Probank. About the banks in which we have invested more than 4 billion taxpayers' money due to the urgent resolution of the banking system, and this is a reasonable and justifiable reason for them to become data on these public loans. And what an important solution we are taking today, even in recent days, are the various statements made by bank experts who once support our amendment and the next day have a completely opposite opinion. I am sure that if we could possibly cause some business damage to economic operators with this amendment, there would be a lot of visits and letters from the Association of Banks of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce, Chambers of Commerce, Bank of Slovenia and I do not know who. None of this happened. All political parties, all Members of Parliament, are constantly and constantly stressing that we are advocating the fight against corruption. Pursuing transparent business and creating a healthy business environment. Support for this amendment will be a real indicator of who is honest about it and who holds a fig in his pocket. We will, of course, unanimously support this amendment in the Civil Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u173	Thank you. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Positive Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u174	Thank you very much, President. As for the previous amendment, which, of course, has the same tendency, the same objective, we can say very clearly that it is a direct damage to banks. To be more clear than I was the last time, I'll give you a comparison. All of you remember the Hypo bank case, which ended with an incredible hole, and finally with nationalisation, where the state of Austria could actually invest incredible large sums, for us unimaginable sums of money, and in the end, it did not come to the point of thinking that it would open a single single single credit map in this bank. Because it followed the basic principle: banking secrecy. But in Slovenia we have another special problem, we have a problem that we do this difference between state banks and private banks. With this amendment, I would like to assume that we will tell the citizens who is responsible for the bank hole, in fact, we are doing a silent privatisation of the banks, because we will actually convince all the committees with this action that they should actually go to private banks quickly, because in this way we will actually liquidate our own state bank, in which we first gave 3 billion and a half, simply. As Members of Positive Slovenia, we simply cannot do any further damage to which you have decided all those who will support this amendment. Thank you very much, but I'm not taking part in this suicide.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u175	Thank you. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. Opening login option. Mr. Richard Braniselj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u176	Thank you very much. I am firmly convinced that this amendment must be supported. I also have to say that at first I was a little bit distracted by this solution. But when we were in the process of thinking, getting more information, actually getting clear answers about what bad loans remained in state banks, what kind of bad loans, where all these bad credits could go, then it was clear to us that these bad loans should also be opened to the public. Acceptance of this amendment does not mean any non-disclosure of the prosecution, to the NPU. As we know, the prosecution has committed itself to process all banking crime by 2015, and we will hold them to our word here. It is also important that all this time we have not received the exact views of state institutions, written positions of state institutions, which would determine whether this is really harmful or not. And I'm sure there can't be any damage here, but it could be a great benefit. We are living at a time when we are witnessing the great nationalisation that is taking place in this country. Nationalisation, which was not wanted by this country, which was imposed by this country. And we have a right to know what we're gonna get.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u177	Thank you. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u178	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues! Once again, let's be perfectly clear. This amendment refers to the disclosure of loans remaining in three state banks. This amendment speaks of the disclosure of already today's bad E and F credits. And nothing else. Nothing else will be revealed. Now for the plastic display. Today, two employees or two companies, whatever you want, take a loan, so we're not talking today, they take it, and it happens that they both lose their jobs. One loan will remain at one of these state banks and will be written off in time. No one will ever know someone had a loan there. The other one, who doesn't have connections, who doesn't have any lobbying, who doesn't have this instrument behind him, is going to go to a bad bank. And he'll be incriminated, and I don't know what everything is, the lump, etc. So it's exposed. Why, who's doing this service? Who fears that the same credits will open up the same categories that remain in the bank to the public to find out why and how much money and how much money they invest in this. Today we talk about confidence in the Slovenian banking system, which is, nicely said, inappropriate. What kind of trust? There's no trust. Stocks have gone up to people, they're gonna pay for these bank holes, and they're not even allowed to know for who and what. Of course I'll support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u179	Mr Marko Pavlisic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u180	That's enough, your honor and respect! There's been enough hiding places, there's been enough hidden looting, there's been enough mismanagement, there's been enough spilling of common funds into private profits, from socializations of losses, there's been some form of solidarity with the tycoons if you want. It was sand in the eyes that all we needed was good governance of the state's assets. Twenty years of experimentation and more than 10 billion direct and direct losses have been sufficient. We've had enough covering bank holes. We've had enough doubts, but we're rehabilitating banks, or we're saving tycoons. The question was enough whether we trusted citizens with information instead of asking ourselves if citizens trusted the policy of the bank. And it is time to equip citizens with the most important tools and weapons of the information age in this informational age, that is also with information on bad credits. Finally, there were enough unfounded fears that, due to the transparency of companies, they would transfer bad loans from state to private banks. Let them do it as soon as possible! Have them transfer these bad loans to private banks. For all this, I will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u181	Thank you. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u182	Thank you for your word. I will support the amendment because it solves this very embarrassment that we all have, how we can achieve that all data will be public, for which we all take part in our debates in various matters. Some of you talk about trust, but at the same time you say that if this is public, all of these banks will transfer their deposits to private banks. So again, some of you know more than most in the National Assembly. Or if we find out plastic from Jani, who did a dissertation about the Hypo Bank a few minutes ago, he forgot to say the key, which is why we have a problem in the National Assembly. Hypo banka really did all of this, which Jani said was plastic, but he forgot the key thing: Hypo bank first replaced all the key people at the Hypo bank and later fixed the case. And we didn't make that move. And we're the same people who dug our hole, we're protecting us again, and we don't want to know why these holes happened. And there's this difference, plastic in Jani, between the Hypo Bank and the things we're talking about. There is a practice abroad that those who have problems with transparency, with legality, and do not know what else to change with, and then look at things as they need to. In this case, our trust would probably be non-problem. How can we trust the same people who made this hole? And this is not the same as the Hypo Bank and any other international comparison, because in these cases the first cut comes first, and it is that the people who have dug the pits withdraw. But we don't want to do that, and we don't want to know how they dug them up and how they're gonna dump them. I'll support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u183	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u184	Thank you very much. The truth about the bank robbery has to come in a day. Disclosure of octopuses, tycoons, financial oligarchies, some politicians, former guilds, who are the strongest in the banking sector and have caused this tragedy in Slovenia. This disclosure has to happen. And this amendment is one of the procedures with which we may succeed. Ladies and gentlemen, hiding this data on a bank robbery has the same denominator as hiding the archives of the Udba, because it is the same people, the same powers centers that are responsible for the misery of the ordinary Slovenian who will pay money for years and years and recapitalise banks. Part of the coalition defends it so desperately because it benefits them. It is true, as has been said, that citizens are insulted enough, and it is enough to rob citizens! We've had enough to cover our eyes, not all of us, that's enough! And whoever's gonna press the "again" button today is on the side of those who ripped out Slovenia. It is enough for the Slovenian public, Slovenian citizens, who are absolutely all honest, who are to disclose this information, because this state bank will be stronger, but not worse, and whoever insults them as soldiers and sexual expatriates, that is enough, even though it is Masha Kociper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u185	Mr Jerovšek, you have again abused the instrument of explanations of voice. I must remind you that it has been very unfair to mention the specific names of those who cannot answer you and are not able to participate in this debate at all. Mr Jerko Čehovin has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u186	Of course, the best thing to do is speak demagogue. Okay, look, can this hall settle down or not? Listen, banking secrecy means the legal obligation of banks to protect the assets of their customers and to refuse any request from third parties to provide such information. Why? Because the commentants don't want to deal with the bank if they can't guarantee the confidentiality of the data. Don't get me wrong. We certainly believe that all those responsible for causing a bank hole due to their unlawful, I repeat, illegal action must be brought before the time of justice. For the authorities investigating such offences, banking secrecy is not an obstacle. But when we talk about banks being able to disclose credit maps that are protected by bank secrecy, not because of predictive and criminal proceedings against individuals, but because we believe that the public has the right to know what is going on in banks, we are going a little too far. Such a duty is not linked to past loans, but also to all who will be created in the future. Are we even aware of this? If we have banks in the state of the bank that are obliged to respect bank secrecy and banks that are obliged to disclose credit card data, which bank do you think will be selected by the committee? And the logic of the fact that banks in difficulty were first financially helped to stabilise, but now we want to cause economic damage to them and thus probably new financial problems is simply not. And I repeat, it's sabotage.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u187	Thank you. Mr. Boyan Starman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u188	Thank you so much for saying that. After us is more than a decade of well-organised state property or civil property of the Republic of Slovenia. I have highlighted the well-organised because it turned out in two days when this proposal came to reveal everything when, at the same time, 80% of the coalition changed their minds. They convinced them. The governor said it's okay to publish, even if the data is complex, the next day he said it would damage the banking system. Half the Members have been convinced overnight, of course with various pressures, and this has been in our hands forever and ever. Until one of you provides me with one way to ensure that we don't give bad credit tomorrow, I'm going to insist on that. I don't know when I'm gonna make it. By publishing, we're giving a ride back. We don't have to influence there anymore. That's where the events happened. The money's gone. The bastards are lost. By publishing as soon as the credit is bad, we may do something wrong, but in most cases we will only ensure that we do not have 5 billion again. So far, as we are talking about bad banks and these bad loans, this situation has grown enormously. I say it's even planned because they were deliberately taking credit because they knew we'd always be able to cover them. So I really think it's time we did something. If we were not all institutions, all supervisors, all of them from Banka Slovenije, were unable to do absolutely nothing to prevent them from moving forward. The only thing I see now in ten years to be able to do is a public announcement that will put pressure on those who deal with it so they don't do anything stupid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u189	Thank you. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Since there is still an interest in explanations of vote, I suggest you apply for an explanation. Mrs. Masha Kociper has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Disagreeing who will persecute and hold those who have committed a bank hole accountable is a fact. Here through you are saying that you would do as Members themselves and call for responsibility. We'd like the law enforcement authorities to do that. But you're moving around all those people who say that these loans are about what you can and can't see in this marriage. No, that's not even the point. This law will make it difficult and irreparable to harm the banking system of the Republic of Slovenia and violate the constitutional principle of equality before the law, the constitutional principle of economic initiative and the constitutional principle of the protection of personal data. And I'll tell you that the fact that you're putting state banks in an uncompetitive position is that you're going to destroy banks in the Republic of Slovenia. Then why did we recapitalize them, why did we invest so much money if now, not those who have these bad claims, but everyone else has withdrawn their money and these banks are going to fail? We in Positive Slovenia have been contacted throughout the day by economists to be the last defender and to prevent what you are doing. And we're surprised. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u191	Peace in the Hall, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u192	You can't see and I've had enough of this populism. [[…]] For me, the population stops here. Likely, it's harmful, which doesn't bother you, but it's unconstitutional and you're putting three state banks in an uncompetitive position, which we've recapitalised, and you're going to start raising deposits, borrowing, transferring business to other banks tomorrow. Then it will be true, the Civil Code, the privatisation of glass one, two, three. I just don't know who's going to buy a cheap state bank. I don't know that. And how much money.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u193	Thank you. Before I give the word forward, I urge you once again to respect the speaker and do not disturb his speech. Please also respect the business provision to define why you will vote against, for substantive reasons, but not to try to accuse others of such or other matters. The next person with a word is Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Well, the first thing we learned was why Positive Slovenia wasn't here, so they called. But that's not the topic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u195	You just broke your first word, Mr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u196	I'm on my way. Yeah, it's okay. Look, I supported an amendment yesterday. Secondly, I spoke yesterday about the fact that regardless of the government, whatever the government in this country is, the actual management of this country in the people who run this country is behind. Now Mr. Starman has spoken very well and has completed what I said yesterday. It is simply that yesterday or the day before, when, most of this House was convinced that these signatures should be disclosed to the public. Then something happened, some calls, then some meetings happened, and half the MPs turned their beliefs. That's proof of what I was saying. The state is governed not by government, not by MPs, but by those in the back. That's proof of that. By the way, talking about sabotage today, talking about how the law enforcement authorities should investigate these things, and so on, is stupid. Yesterday we heard the interior minister, who said 350 million we have in the bag, somehow exploring this 350 million. Where's all the $5 billion? And nothing will happen from the point of view of raising the stakes and so on and so forth. Nothing at all. Why would it happen? But those who do business normally, especially citizens, have nothing to do with it. It's about things, it's about loans, it's about stolen money from banks paid by citizens with recapitalisation, and it's right to know who it is that stole it. Therefore, this amendment of the Civil Code must be absolutely supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u197	Thank you. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will vote against this amendment. I'll tell you why. Because it was proposed by the Civil Code. That was a joke, that was a joke. That's what many would do. But not me. ‘Congratulations on the Civil Code for the courage to gather and propose a reasonable solution in the coalition. Congratulations! This is a great act for Slovenia. Trust in banks, ladies and gentlemen – how many billion have made holes? And we trust. Look, then I was the awesome director of Interles, I don't know. They can't be trusted. I will vote in favour of this amendment because people have taken a fair loan for the house, for the apartment, and now they cannot repay it because they lost their job, we have lost 80 or 90 thousand jobs since 2008. They can't pay back, and the bank is robbing their house. On the other hand, the bank, names and surnames have, on my contract, written down who is the borrower and who is the giver, gave credit – not for buying machines and halls as in my case, and everything still stands in Vollika – for yachts, money went abroad, went for pleasure, ladies and gentlemen. It is therefore necessary to say this, as Mr Starman said, that this will no longer be the case. Once again, congratulations on the Civil War.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u199	Thank you. Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u200	Thank you very much. I can't support this amendment either. It's a violation of constitutional principles, it's a violation of a banking principle, it's a fundamental banking principle to protect banking secrecy. Credit-lending companies are still eager to respect bank secrecy. For the purpose of borrowing loans, an annex is entered into in the long-term business contracts. What's going on? There is a seasonal fluctuation in the operation of the company. For three months, he cannot repay the loan — and what will happen? The company's business cooperation contract will be published on the website. It's banking secrecy, for example, of two business partners. That's what we're talking about. We are talking about a violation of the basic principle of the banking system. So it's bank secrecy. Whether it's a pensioner, whether it's a young person, whether it's an adult or a small, medium-sized, large business or a self-employed person. I don't think that's right. When we talk about Europe, how many billions across Europe of bank holes have there been - or has any country adopted such a law and a measure as we now propose here? It's not. I can't support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u201	Thank you. Mrs. Janja Klasinc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u202	Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! I'm not going to support this amendment myself for a very simple reason. A colleague of Brunskolet's just said. If it were at this amendment, on this proposed solution at least a grain of intelligence, any other European Union country that was involved in similar matters would do so. This has not been done by the United States of America; this has not been done by the countries we call democratic countries in the world today. This will be done by Slovenia, which is always innovative in the world, and this sometimes makes me very sad because it would be much better to use innovation for something that will benefit everyone but not for the collapse of the three biggest Slovenian banks.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u203	Thank you. Mr Ivan Simčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u204	Mr President, thank you for saying so. I would have continued where I had stopped before. I will support the amendment because I believe that transparency and transparency are the basis of trust in someone, in which case to banks. I don't want it to happen again, like we do now, what we have in our archives, what we don't have. The archives disappeared more or less in 1945, 1990. There's some change left in the archives. I'm afraid if we keep working with banks like this, it's not just going to be a bank hole anymore, it's going to be a void and something more expressive. Let me give you a practical example. In 1986, Illyrian Bistrica received international recognition as the largest oil derivative carrier in Europe. He's in bankruptcy now. Why? Look back on the news, I don't want to name certain people what they've been doing in this company for the last 20 years. But those who used to work and were employed in this company received an invitation a month ago to give a few more 100 euros to recapitalise this company. Banks don't want anything. Banks want to have their own. I'd really like to know who owns this company, except for the banks. But I probably won't be able to find out. If we don't have a problem in the future, I will support this amendment myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u205	Thank you. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u206	Thank you very much. I used to be 99% sure I'd support this amendment. With each speech by colleagues from Positive Slovenia and the SD, this rate is increasing rapidly. Don't worry, I will absolutely support this amendment, because we're talking about exposing bad loans and not hiding bad credits, as someone might feel when they listen to colleagues from certain customers. I am for the public of data, of all data, and especially bad credits, not to protect people who are called tycoons on one side, and others call them Forum 21. On the other hand, all those honest directors of state-owned enterprises, of which this law is primarily about, shall be revealed. Some would protect those who broke out Slovenia that broke out the banking system. On the other hand, they support the detection of all those who do well. With this amendment and as a consequence, we will not harm the state banks, and we will harm those tycoons that this part of the banking system protects through state banks and through a certain part of the policy. This debate today is proof that state banks and state-owned enterprises need to be exposed and disclosed as soon as possible and if only sold as soon as possible, because it is unacceptable that ordinary citizens do not get good credit on account of these bad loans. Absolute support to the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u207	Thank you. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u208	Listen, today, dear colleagues and colleagues, I must admit, today has become some new coalition, a coalition of blues, a coalition of people who believe in some positive solutions in this country. The first case of constitutionality or unconstitutionality. Look, banking secrecy is not the highest protected constitutional right. However, constitutional rights are the dignity of people, the so-called constitutional right to information to the public. If we weigh these two rights, the public's awareness of such misuse of the banking system is more than 10 billion in Slovenia alone, which overcomes any banking secrecy. And information to the public will be the constitutional right that comes first. That's the first thing. That's another thing. I'm stressing again. Slovenia does not have a long-term banking tradition. There is no money loaded here by many entrepreneurs from abroad or by companies from abroad. So that the capital of Slovenian state banks will not go away. Next thing. Commercial banks are subject to their owners. This is not about the fact that someone called, but he could have called for a meeting where he had to present his business plan, he had to tell him how he would secure this loan and on this basis was granted credit. Dear colleagues and colleagues from this community, who are defending this from being exposed, I believe you have reasons for it. I believe that if this is revealed, it may also reveal how one such client was created within two months like you. I think that's going to come out, too. Maybe with that money, too. That's what you're gonna have to say. That is why I support the amendment of the Civil List. I think it's going in the same direction as the SDS party's amendment. I believe that information to the public is the fundamental right for people to find out what will require them to bear collective guilt in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u209	Thank you, too. Mr. Robert Hrovat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u210	Thank you for your word. I'll support the amendment. What's this all about? It is whether or not bank fraud is fully exposed. That's all this is about. And on this particular amendment, that theory about the 2004-2008 mandate also fell when the Janša government, when you spoke extensively to the coalition MPs, said that this government was responsible for the huge number of loans and what kind of loans and so on. This is where it now shows who were the ones who got the credits. Who were the people who approved them? And we want to reveal this information. And that's the way it is. Look, here's a chance to unify politics, finally. This is the point where we can unify. We all want openness to discover fraud and finally come up with a clear word a day and say, "This one and this one got credit, this one and this one approved it and this one didn't pay it back." We paid for it. And we have the right to find out about anyone who's got credit and is bad and hasn't paid it off. And the example, the lady on the stand, when we were collecting signatures against the closing of archives, came to tell me that for 90 euros owed to the bank, she had been robbed of the furniture in the living room the same day. And here you see that difference, these vats. For 90 euros, she was collected from her entire living room the day before yesterday. And we are now pretending here that we will not expose these biggest thieves in Slovenia who have robbed banks. Where's your face? Positive Slovenia, you are full of transparency and I don't know what, now is the time to show how you are.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u211	Mr. Croat, the same goes for you. You went through the permission to explain your vote. An appeal is not allowed and the next one with a word is Mr Matevž Frangež. Here you go, Mr. Frangezh.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u212	Look at the framework that was formed in this debate. Some of you are for honesty, clarity, publicity, transparency, others for the protection of thieves. This is the discourse you're putting in the center of this hall. The main problem we have in Slovenia is the issue of stigma. Poor investment is not necessarily a crime. I know a number of entrepreneurs who, because of their economic cycle or the fact that their contracting authority did not pay them the goods they had acquired, came into a situation of insolence and were late and are now in debt to banks themselves. Are they responsible for what happened in Slovenia? Please, once again, I call for one more soberness and understanding in the choice of measures. If I expect anything from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and if I expect anything from Minister Gregor Virant, it is that he will implement yesterday's decision by the Government as soon as possible and will lay down before this National Assembly a law on public investigation which will allow independent investigators to have a full view, to obtain all relevant data to begin as soon as possible, to continue to fight, prosecute and detect crimes that have also led to problems in the Slovenian banking system. Qualified investigators associated with both the National Investigation Office and the Anti-Corruption Commission, including the Commission of Inquiry in this Parliament. Only in this way will we come to the truth about what happened in Slovenia. Not only will we expose data that may be of interest to a handful but they do not provide a comprehensive and inaccurate answer to what has happened in Slovenia and to what extent policies, crime and corruption are responsible for the hole in the banking system. I will therefore vote against this.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u213	Thank you. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Dear President, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me a quote that says, "I clearly want to say that I have no problem with ensuring responsibility, who in banks caused damage to 15% of GDP, as long as taxpayers cost the rehabilitation of the banking system." Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek December 16, 2013 Today we are talking about giving our support to identify irregularities in the banking system. And today I ask whether Positive Slovenia is no longer in agreement with Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek when she speaks. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u215	Mr. Shircel, you can't ask that.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u216	I'm sorry. It's a rhetorical question. That's a question to me, and I'll give you the answer. I note that Positive Slovenia is no longer in contact with the Prime Minister regarding the determination of responsibility, given what I am hearing today. But anyway, I will support this proposal of the Civil Code, because I do not think that disclosure alone constitutes criminalisation of any kind of credit. This will be identified by the investigating authorities. Because I don't think this is any wrong decision on the Constitutional Court or on the Constitution. That will be decided by the Constitutional Court if it so decides. And I don't think we can operate on double criteria. On the one hand, to be responsible, on the other hand not to vote in favour of those provisions that actually mean and are the basis for greater responsibility, because of this, of course, this duality, which today in this Chamber also shows duality in that on the one hand something is said and on the other hand some work is done. But this [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u217	Thank you. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u218	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! I will also support the amendment of the Civil Gazette, which seeks to expose irregularities in the banking operation of the past. Those who today do not support this amendment are undervalued to Slovenian citizens, to Slovenian pensioners, you are being very insulting.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u219	Mr. Žnidar [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u220	This way you don't want to upset citizens, because if you don't know, then everything is fine, there's nothing wrong, there's nothing wrong with the banking system. Everything's fine, and there's no problem. And then later, when I listen to the excuses that banks will lose the boards. Yeah, but what committees are they gonna lose? The economy will soon have nothing more to bring to the banks! The ones that, if we ask for the back which ones they brought more to the banks, the ones that they were carrying to the banks, or the ones that were carrying out from the bank. Which they did more damage. This is very clear: those who have dealt with irregular tycoon interventions with bank thefts. And a very clear picture will be today, which one of you wants to expose irregularities in the banking system and who has a large, very strong and background influential segment so that you do not support this amendment of the Civil Gazette today.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u221	Thank you. Can we make a decision? There's still an interest in explaining the voice. I suggest you sign up for an explanation. Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, here we are Members of Parliament, who think otherwise. And that's right, and that's what we're gonna say. As a result, no one is wiser, smarter, in a coalition like it has been said, but we decide by our conscience what we know, know or hear. Look, I've been listening to banking experts, and the information officer from the economy, who somehow warned me, has been saying that what we would do if we supported this amendment is not good, because in this area we would make double criteria for banks that are foreign and private, and for banks that are our nationals. And that's why it's not good. We have, however, witnessed in this national assembly since this Slovenia, that we have made many mistakes. And these wrong choices have made us where we are. And which decision will be the wiser, yours or ours, that will be judged by history, not least by our citizens and our citizens in the next elections. And I'm afraid we're going to be able to repent for a long time after making such wrong decisions. You know, Mr Virant has proven many times by his rebellion that he made the wrong choice. And I'm sure after all I've heard, he's making the wrong decision today. If I had made a good decision, I would have taken advantage of the Banking Act and immediately intervened in these bad loans, found or began to determine who those who had brought the matter so far, and together with my colleague, the Justice Minister did what they had done in Austria. They immediately stepped on their fingers, convicted and removed those people who were this bank hole. [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u223	Thank you. I must also remind you that Mr Virant, too, at this stage, cannot give any answers. But Mr. Jože Tanko has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u224	Thank you very much. I am pleased that at least part of the members of the National Assembly, part of the coalition began to understand what transparency means. When we proposed the opening of bad files in September under the Banking Act, the coalition was collectively against such solutions. It's been six months and there's been one move for the better. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u225	Mr Tanko, at the beginning of the debate, I would rather direct you to the content and tell you why you will vote against this, because you have escaped to a completely different place than the purpose of explaining your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u226	Thank you very much. I would like to remind you, Mr President of the National Assembly, that the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption is also proposing public handling of bad files because they do not communicate names. And if you do not want to listen to me about transparency, at least give it to the Commission to prevent corruption. And this amendment also follows this issue of the Commission to prevent corruption, so that matters can be opened and seen in public. However, I would like to point out that if this amendment is not adopted, the way in which the banking system continues to operate will mean a direct threat to pensions, as further measures will no longer be possible to increase taxes indefinitely will only go into the burden of public costs, public spending. And the pension will be the first to be on that strike. I therefore suggest that, in order to avoid the next step being a blow to pensions, that this amendment be supported, that we stop the bad practice in the part of the banking system and that we simply allow the disclosure of those who participated in the creation of the bank hole. I will also support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u227	Thank you. I note that there is no longer any interest in explanations of vote, so I am putting the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code to Article 8. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 39. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Procedurally, Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u228	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have a procedural proposal for those colleagues who today, by their vote, have apparently protected their anointed ones and given them a commitment to the sin and crime that occurred in our banks, that if they believe that they must remain anonymous, they should negotiate them and give them six billion and bring them back [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u229	Mr Jerovšek [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u230	six billion back into the state budget, to state banks [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u231	Mr. Jerovšek, you're using the instrument again. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u232	At least do this and keep them anonymous. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u233	We are moving on to the next amendment, under point 3, to decide on the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National Gazette and DeSUS to Article 8. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 12. Here I would like to make a note: since the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code to Article 8 under Article 2 has not been adopted, it has become an amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Letter to Article 12 under Article 1 irrelevant. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the Civil Gazette and DeSUS to Article 12. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 21. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 48 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I would like to point out, under point 2 of Article 21, that the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code to Article 8 under Article 2 has not been adopted, and has become the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Civil List to Article 21 under Article 2 irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 23. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 48 votes against none. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We turn to Article 26, where I would like to remind you that the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code to Article 8 has not been adopted and has therefore become an amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code to Article 26 irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 29. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 13. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We ended the vote on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to amendments adopted in the second reading at the home work body and at the meeting of the National Assembly, the proposal for a law would be inconsistent. We can decide on the law. Excuse me? I'm sorry. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u234	Thank you very much, President. The Positive Slovenia Group will support the law because it is good because it has a lot of elements that contain what we have really talked about most in the last year, especially the transparent work. At the same time, when this amendment was not supported, we have in fact made it possible to function normally in this country. But to those who wanted to achieve a lot with this amendment, I'm just telling them that they didn't make it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u235	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Civil Code, he shall have the word mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u236	Thank you for your word. In the Civil Code, we regret that the amendment to Article 8 of this Law has not been adopted. Nevertheless, we will support the law on the grounds that it introduces greater transparency into the operations of state-owned enterprises and businesses owned by the State, the system or the Supervisory Institute or the institution of the Supervisor is incorporated into public institutions, public enterprises and other institutions. For this reason, we will vote in favour of this law, although we regret once again that our proposals for greater transparency in the banking system have not been heard with sufficient support.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u237	Thank you. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u238	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! As we have predicted in the position of the New Slovenia Group, if our amendment or amendment of the opposition were to be adopted or the amendment of the National List, in this case, if this amendment were adopted or at least one, we would support the law, we would vote in favour. Now we won't vote in favour. We find the same thing as the European Commission. The European Commission notes in its report that there is not enough political will in Slovenia to prosecute corruption. If we read this report, they'd believe me. That's what I was talking about yesterday. I regret that the amendments of the opposition and the Civil Code have not been adopted. It's basically some kind of analogy. Both the amendments, the opposition and the National Gazette, have sided with the banks, but on the side of the banks. This is something similar when our coalition passed a law on the public publication of taxpayers. And what are the effects? That's when we thought about the effects. But the effects are positive. There's more money coming into the state cash register every month. I'm sure the borrowers would also be disciplined here, and the bank would get more. Therefore, we regret that there is no such solution. My colleagues and colleagues, I never really wanted a threesome to come to Slovenia. But I wanted to come and establish a legal country in Slovenia. And in fact, in a short time, I would have published all those who caused us a bank hole. Today, as it is said, I agree with the European Commission's conclusion that there is not enough political will in Slovenia to eliminate corruption. And this one will grow up joyfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u239	Thank you. Mr Franz Pukšič has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u240	Thank you very much, very good-bye. Since the beginning, we have supported the law and, in coordination with the Minister, our proposal has also been to move in this direction, as has now been followed by the amendment to Article 8. We are very sorry that this did not happen, with the eighty-nine, thirty-nine votes, so this amendment was not voted out. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the law because of all the other positive matters brought by this law, while at the same time clearly and loudly predicting and believing that the National List will remain upright and state-of-the-art in order to make changes to this article. Colleagues and colleagues, six members and members of the opposition, the Slovenian People's Party, New Slovenia and the Slovenian Democratic Party are at the European People's Party Congress in Dublin. The next time these six Members will be here and will vote for citizens and citizens. They're not going to stand up to them, just like they're part of a coalition. And people, citizens and citizens have the right to know who and why they got credits they don't pay. Citizens and citizens have the right to know about all credits, those remaining at the bank and those going to a bad bank. I told you, if you have connections, you stay at the bank, but if you don't have them, you're going to a bad bank. This isn't right, this is guilt. This is a crime and this is banking terrorism.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u241	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u242	Thank you very much. In our parliamentary group, we firmly hoped that today could be a day of hope for Slovenian citizens, for Slovenian people, that there would be a law or amendments to Article 8 that would pass this hope, that we would decide in Parliament with our government to end this corruption, this robbery, this crime that happened with Slovenian money. But a large part of the coalition couldn't do that. A large part of the coalition has decided to cover these financial frauds. These financial crimes and those people who committed such crimes [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u243	Mr Jerovšek, as I have warned you so far, cannot be disputed with others at the time of explanation of the vote. So tell us what your parliamentary group will vote for, or against, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u244	Such financial crimes have won today. [[…]] The people who have committed these crimes have won and are still the most powerful in this country, and they now have this country in absolute power, as well as the ruling policy of this country. However, this day has become one of the saddest days of this profound realization of what has happened, that it has neither the power nor its own government to say who has robbed this money, so this agony in our banks, in the amount of six billion unexplored money, continues without covering the approved money today. Since marriage has some good things, our group will abstain, it will not break this law. Of course, we all swear together to the Slovenian people that it is necessary to take this step, which has been rejected today, and that this will happen, if the current policy is still defended, if those who have already drawn their power and are strong in banks and everywhere are also resisting the knowledge of the Slovenian people who have embezzled and robbed them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u245	Thank you. I invite you to apply for an explanation of vote on your own behalf. Mrs. Masha Kociper has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u246	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll be very happy to support the marriage. Until this amendment to Article 8, it was a law which had virtually unanimous support for the opposition and position. And I only regret the populism move by Minister Virant, who listened to the opposition and with an amendment that could destroy the Slovenian banking system, brought such a rift between us. This law, which is the basis of the fight against corruption, will of course be supported. I regret to note that the previous coalition was unable to accept it. As I observe this even now, I wonder whether the manoeuvre of this amendment has been so that some now have an excuse not to support the fight against corruption. We continue to support the law. It is one of the most transparent and open laws in Europe. No one in Europe has as transparently regulated the area of the state economy as we have. In Positive Slovenia we have some concerns about what the effects will be, but we want to demonstrate by this gesture that we believe in the fight against corruption and we mean it. The amendment, with which you would like to destroy Slovenian banks, was not supported by Banka Slovenije, was opposed by the Ministry, the Chamber of Commerce and the entire professional public. I am only happy that we have had enough sense and I also note and tell the voters that popularism in this national assembly has its limits and that there are Members in this national assembly who act with reasonable and thoughtfulness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u247	Thank you. I'm asking for peace in the hall. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u248	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course I'll support the marriage. Of course, marriage is a great advance. Unfortunately, as with some others, I regret that the proposed amendment has not been adopted, but I hope that the developments will however be such that Mr Pukšič will keep his word and introduce the amendment of the law or submit it and that the amendment of the law will be adopted shortly. If we compare Slovenia, Austria, Switzerland. How do these countries differ? They have roughly the same natural conditions, about the same geographical area we live in, but the difference in gross social product is enormous – 1:2.5 compared to Switzerland, 1:2 compared to Austria. So, the difference is management. Mr President, I can't get past this without coming on my own. Bankruptcy does not just occur because of external causes, as some people wish to say, that the bank failure, the bank hole, the country's bankruptcy, the enormous deficit has occurred due to the global crisis. Of course it is. My company's bankruptcy also took place not only because of external causes, but because of my wrong decisions, including mine. And I should make a different decision. And Slovenian policy should make a different decision. Not for the benefit of the minority, but for the benefit of the majority of the population. The welfare of the state is measured by the well-being of the weak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u249	Thank you. Mr Marko Pavlisic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u250	Thank you for your word. 10 years of application of this law has brought 10 years of good experience with this law, and this good practice must also be extended to state and municipal companies. Give us another chance, was somehow the last argument of those who opposed transparency. However, this raises the question of why they did not take advantage of these opportunities before we put an additional burden on taxpayers. During the 20 years of poor governance, there were many opportunities to show what they could do. They didn't take advantage of this opportunity. But also in changing the management of state-owned enterprises, we are experiencing blockades. Soon we will be able to organise a picnic on the second anniversary of the Slovenian State Holding Act and it still stands. Someone has a fig in his pocket as well as in terms of transparency. Here we work in some permanent Slovenian manner or I will better say the manners of Slovenian politics to let us change something by not changing anything. And it's a cancer wound to Slovenian politics. We change things so we don't change anything. And some don't want to change anything either. This is also what the European Commission reminds us of in its latest report. That is why I will vote in favour of this law, I will vote in favour of transparency and I will vote in favour of a better country.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u251	Thank you. Mr. Aloysius Potočnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u252	Thank you for your word. Civil society and functioning institutions are pillars of democracy. Let me paraphrase someone who spoke before. We didn't stand up for banks, we stood up for functioning institutions. I'm aware that the work is not finished. We're at the beginning of this work, and I hope we can get him to the end. I'll support the marriage. Thank you all for the debate, which I think was more or less correct.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u253	Thank you. We're voting on the law. 77 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the law on disabled persons by a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, the amendments at the assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. 77 Members and Members present, 75 votes against. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the draft law on inspection of work under the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Kobilana Lipica following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. At the same time, I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 1. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the motion for a resolution on the protection of the cranium bee. As the amendments to the supplementary motion for a resolution have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the motion for a resolution. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, the motion for a resolution would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Penal Code. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the Penal Code is suitable for further consideration. First, we move on to an explanation of vote. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Dr Vinko Gorenak shall have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u254	Thank you very much. We will support this proposal, and I invite everyone else. But it's actually very little, and it's the third amendment to the Penal Code. We are correcting Article 59, where we are essentially laying down that the crime of murder is not obsolete. That means you never get old. As long as the perpetrator of the murder is still alive, such a crime can be prosecuted. There were a lot of things in the debate yesterday. We have written in explanation of the law that it is also a matter of prosecuting the perpetrators of the murders of the former State Security Service. I have also pointed out that there are outdated deadlines for the largest murder in the Republic of Slovenia, this is about Tekača. It has been seventeen years, and one day this matter will also wear off if we do not change the Penal Code. I therefore invite you to try to support the proposal that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u255	Thank you, too. Ms Maša Kociper has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u256	Positive Slovenia will vote against such a bill. The proposed law does not solve the problem that the proposer draws attention to. Our Constitution, as has been said many times, expressly prohibits the retroactivity of legal acts, and our Penal Code, as has been said in practice, makes it clear to all the laws of the world that the perpetrator of the crime is subject to the law applicable in the course of the commission of the crime, and if it changes only if it has changed to miles. So even if this change were to take place, there is no way to resolve it. Otherwise, our legislation has allowed a number of crimes to remain out of date. This is also the case in the case of two or more crimes of murder, and this possibility is given by the law in the event of the crime being committed. It is said that these problems have been adequately solved since the present legislation, and no new changes need to be made. In addition, the Ministry said in its debate that the killings are regularly resolved in the Republic of Slovenia and we do not have problems, nor with the killings, but that a change to the Penal Code is being prepared, where such and all other similar solutions will be examined by the profession, by inclusion in the system law, and then a systemic solution will be found, because the non-systemic solutions that you have adopted in this house in the past have had many bad effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u257	Thank you, too. Mr Franz Breznik has an explanation of vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u258	Thank you for your word. Look, I said everything I thought was important here last night more than in one hour's explanation. It is important that we are aware of the principles of criminal law of all those who have proposed this law. But I talked mainly about history, about the facts, about the many murders that were undiscovered. My friend Gorenak told me about a murder that's one of the worst, it's a four-time murder in Running Man. I think today we're telling our ethics about murder, about murder, and that's what it is, it's prevention, it's prevention in the future. That's what it brings. We do not need a wider professional debate, whether the murder in Slovenia is outdated or not, or whether our practice will be similar to that of civilized nations, those nations that have condemned the killings that are now instituting trials, after that salary, and those who deny it, you need to know how the law will be interpreted by those who are persecuting criminals. And that's important. We are not law enforcement, but we are the legislative branch of power. And the law enforcement authorities will explain it or not. Therefore, these facts, which you are explaining or these arguments, are not arguments that could explain why the law is not for further application. Of course I do, and I believe you'll support it most of the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u259	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We vote on the decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the Penal Code is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present. The vote was 28 to 47. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 47.]] I note that the decision has not been adopted and therefore the legislative procedure for the proposal is closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Public Properties of Officials. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on public property of officials is suitable for further consideration. Dr Vinko Gorenak has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u260	Very briefly. The bill that we tabled and for which I invite you to support me, I am talking about the publicity of the assets of the officials. We have a lot of questions on this subject, we have a lot of problems in this country, and the proposal we have put forward is, in fact, that with the Commission to prevent corruption, which now controls the origin of assets or the assets of officials, we are transferring this area to the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors has the appropriate experts, already referred to as the Court of Auditors, that they deal with the economy, with money and so on, which they do not have in particular an education structure in the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption according to their field of work. We also propose that this information be made public on the Internet. The SDS was the first to publish public information on the property of all Members on its website many years ago. The law, if it continues the procedure and if this law is adopted, will also allow all officials to do so. Of course, it also seems important to me that we make it clear that it is not about abolishing the Commission to prevent corruption, as we heard yesterday. Keep your other assignments, of course. So I invite you to support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u261	Thank you. Mr Kavtičnik has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Ambassadors and Members of Positive Slovenia will not support the bill because we believe and believe that we already have such a body, which is a body called the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. If we transfer certain powers from the Commission to the Court of Auditors, we would start to wonder over time about the usefulness of this Commission, and we are afraid that the applicants are not going in this direction, and then this commission would cease to work. We advocate that this Commission works even better and even better, so of course we will follow all these proposals that will go this way in amending legislation. However, we expect the Commission to do this work, but it is not expected to publish these results. In the Parliamentary Group, Positive Slovenia will oppose this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u263	Thank you. We're voting. 75 Members and Members present, 27 votes against 47. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 47.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Slovenia and on the Slovenian National flag. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Slovenia and on the Slovenian National flag is suitable for further consideration. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group is mag. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u264	Good-bye to all of you! Every time we talk about symbols, we also talk about values, those values that are at the heart of each country and are at the same time a fundamental condition for its development. In Slovenia, we witnessed the event when the entire state summit sat under the symbols of a totalitarian regime, without Slovenia being a single national flag at the national ceremony, without the fact that Slovenia has been an equal member of the European Union for years. But there were totalitarian symbols as much as you want. It is no wonder, therefore, that this government and this coalition are completely unsuccessful. Every investor, anyone looking for a business partner from abroad, runs away from this point of view, because everyone will be looking for a country where they will be convinced that the values he respects are the values of a modern united Europe that was created in the ruins of totalitarianism of the 20th century, on the ruins of the Berlin Wall and on the iron undertaking that its values are respected there and that it is adequately protected on the legal path. The government, which does so, has no other option than to rent new and new loans and to transfer its failure to the next generation. And that's exactly what you're doing. That's exactly what you covered today by preventing all bad loans from becoming public [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u265	Mr Grims [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u266	Therefore, transparency in the public sector [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u267	do not accuse and embezzle others. [[…]] Please remain with the content.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u268	I'm not embalming. I only list the obvious facts and the obvious facts [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u269	You're accusing and you're accusing [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u270	It is likely that no mention is made in this National Assembly. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u271	You're in the voice-explanatory phase, so I need to warn you about this. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u272	Well, this was the best evidence of the groundlessness of one of the claims that we heard yesterday from the ruling coalition that the state of Slovenia was disappointed. No, the state of Slovenia is a wonderful country, but it has disappointed the longtime power of the transition left, which has taken everything from people. Trans channeling God knows where and how to build taxes over their heads from which no one can be seen. We do not propose anything other than consistent respect for the value of patriotism. But we respect that value in our actions. And we also propose in this law that we respect the constitutional principle that the entire Zdravica is a Slovenian anthem and that this rule, which we also write in the law, should be used in short form only exceptionally. We suggest that this is as suggested by the great Slovenian [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u273	Thank you. Mr Jerko Čehovin has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u274	Thank you. In the Group of the Positive Slovenia, we are convinced that we do not change the symbols, including the anthem, every day, but especially because of the daily political needs. National symbols tend to change with large, breakthrough changes in the change in social regulation, but of course this is not happening today. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in its opinion on this law, argues that it would be expected that, if the desire for such changes were to be made, the applicants would conduct a broad public debate prior to the introduction of the law, obtain opinions from citizens, experts and, on this basis, decide on the need for any changes. This ignorance of the opinion of citizens, the professions can also be seen in the second part of the proposal concerning the prohibition of the public use of the symbols of totalitarian regimes, which is a ban on the symbol of the star or a more precise red star. According to the motioners it is a symbol of JLA, which is true, but it is also true that the red star is a symbol of liberation from fascism, a symbol of partisanism, for most of the Slovenian people is a symbol of freedom and resistance against Nazi Fascist invaders and their associates in 1941-1945. This symbol is not least linked to the roots of Slovenian statehood. Of course, in this way the SDS would simply like to get rid of the Ensigns at state celebrations because they consider them to be the symbol of the occupying army. But who really participates in celebrations? Flags, the NOB Association of Fighters, not flags or signs of JLA, are present. ZZB flags have a sign that, according to their statutes, expresses the symbols of national liberation: the Slovenian national flag, Triglav, Adriatic, Liberation Front, Star, Lip leaves and the 1941-1945 anniversary. In our opinion, this part of the bill seeks to rob these people of their dignity, which we do not agree to in Positive Slovenia, so we will not support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u275	Thank you. Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat in her own name? In my own name. Wait a minute. Anyone else want to do this on behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. Here you go, Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat, you have your own word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u276	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. I will not support this law because I do not agree with changing the symbols of the country, these are the coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me explain this point of view. I am sure that changing the text of the anthem would not help to increase patriotism. In order to raise the national consciousness of the Slovenes and Slovenes, anything other than what was explained in the proposal for this change, that is, anything other than dealing with this moment with the symbols of the country, which I think are appropriate. I also join the opinion of the honourable Member, Mr Čehovin, who has just explained this. In particular, I would like to stress that I will vote against the law by my own conviction, i.e. by my own conscience and not by order of the Government and its representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u277	Thank you. In his own name, he will explain the voice of Mr Peter Wilphan.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u278	Thank you, Madam President. I was the first captain of the first real Slovenian basketball team, and then, together with my teammates, I also wore the coat of arms, the Slovenian coat of arms, for the first time listening to the Slovenian anthem, and for the first time at the official match, the Slovenian flag also cried. To me, all these three symbols are extremely deeply embedded in memory, and I must say that there will be much more and better arguments for me to agree at any time to change these symbols. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u279	Thank you, too. In his own name, he has an explanation for the voice of the Magi. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u280	Thank you. Look, we're not suggesting changing symbols, we're proposing consistent respect for state symbols. They are changed precisely by those who attach some totalitarian symbols to either the Slovenian national flag or the national flag. Any one of them. You know, the sickle and hammer or the red star are symbols of international socialism, the hooky cross symbol of national socialism, but it's all the same smurf, add the symbols of fascism, and you have all the major totalitarianisms of the twentieth century. And if you want to take pictures with them, go ahead. But it is not right that this is happening in the country and that these symbols are celebrated. I only remember one plane that dropped bombs and had a totalitarian symbol on its wings, under which today it prefers the entire state summit of the Republic of Slovenia. And I wonder who they are celebrating now — the murderers or those who won the war for Slovenia? A few awkward things. Therefore, it is not good that the symbols they share are used. Those symbols that combine should be used. These are Slovenian national, national symbols, which are defined in law and constitution, and their respect should be consistent, because they do not think that they are looking at us only at home. They're watching us abroad, too. That is why the lady who spoke earlier overlooked that this is also an important development issue. If a country celebrates totalitarian symbols, all ordinary investors, business partners will turn their backs on such countries. And that's why we all live worse in this country. However, the government, which does so, has no other choice but to impose new and new taxes on people's shoulders and to rent new and new loans and to transfer its failure to the next generation. That is why this law is also important for Slovenian development.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u281	Thank you. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u282	Mr President, thank you for saying so. It was my destiny to stand in the honor of the first generation of the Slovenian Army on 26 June 1991, not far from when the younger generation launched a symbolic red star and placed the first new Slovenian flag. With this we thought that we symbolically broke off with the former totalitarian regime, in which we found more than six mass graves in the self-sustainment process, where we realized that more than half a million of our fellow citizens were living abroad because of the totalitarian regime in the extrajudicial killings, in the various mounted processes, in the various Udbov killings, destroyed more than 1.5% of Slovenia's best population. And you say that this symbol unites. It's a symbol of the violation of human rights, it's a symbol that belongs to the dump of history. The only symbol that unites the Slovenian nation is the Slovenian flag, with all its symbols, and the anthem. As we speak of the anthem, see, this too has been my destiny, the first speech by Mr. Boris Pahor, who spoke in one of his 1969 essays, when he mentioned the criticism, why a nation can raise its people before its own people. And this is Boris Pahor's idea, not the idea of the Slovenian Democratic Party. When Boris Pahor mentioned this forty, fifty years ago, he was observed by the 13 companions of the Udba. And look, in 2011, ex-partners of the Udba explain why this is not appropriate for further consideration. That's one symbol of all this. And I hope Boris Pahor is watching this session. I think that when we recently hand over the documents in his observation of the Udba, when 13 people worked on it, on the cultural genocide, I hope that today he sees this session to see all the symbolism of this modern Slovenian country. I'm horrified. I'm really horrified.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u283	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u284	Thank you very much. I will support this law because I think it regulates and strengthens the patriotic consciousness of the Slovenians in a better way. It is not true that we are changing the symbols, it is not true that we are changing them, but we are following in the hymn proposal of academic Boris Pahor, the zero of Slovenian culture, which I think has experienced three totalitarianisms most in his life and is drawing wisdom from this. And he's a real wise man in Slovenia. Whoever denies Pahor is not standing on the goalpost. But I would like to say here that I also agree that those symbols of totalitarian systems — all three, millions of them — were innocent victims of these totalitarianisms, so they must not be promoted. This has long been solved by Germany and many countries. What I'm trying to say is that this is where the historical untruth is mentioned. By January 1943 we had a Slovenian partisan army. And the Slovenian partisan army wore three-headed without a star. And the Triglavka was a symbol of the Slovenian partisan army. Then he sent Arso Jovanović to the central committee, who, by force and terror, beat the three heads of Slovenian partisans and imposed a communist symbol, which you now promote as a typical Slovenian. Be consistent and correct, at least in this House, what are the original Slovenian symbols. Triglavka until 1943, until the raid of Arsa Jovanovic and to the Dolomitian declaration where democracy within the Slovenian partisan army was destroyed. So much for the truth. And everything else is a delusion and a lie. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u285	Thank you. We vote on the decision. There are 71 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 46. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 46.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. Point of the agenda, this is a proposal for an act on the ratification of the third additional protocol to the European Convention on Extradition. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. 69 Members and Members are present. 68 votes against no one. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. We're moving to 14. At the end of the day, this is on the defence of the proposal for a law on the ratification of the supplementary drug protocol and the Lumpur Kual on liability and compensation for the Cartagena Protocol on Biological Safety. The draft law was tabled by the Government in the hearing. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. 67 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. Agenda item, this is a proposal for an act on the ratification of the European Convention on the Protection of Animals in International Transport (Revised). The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. We're moving on to 16. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for an act on the ratification of the fourth Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Extradition. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 17. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a bill on the ratification of the Convention on Aid for Food Disruption. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. 69 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 18. At the end of the day, this is to the defence of the proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Islamic Republic of Iran on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in relation to income and profit taxes with the Protocol. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy as the parent working body that reported the letter to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. 69 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. At the end of the day, these are mental-voluntary matters. I inform you that until the beginning of the meeting, the Mandate-Electorial Commission has not forwarded any matter, so I conclude this item on the agenda and I also conclude the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you and goodbye.
