ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the 21st session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Iva Dimic, Mrs Irena Tavčar, Mrs Maša Kociper, Mrs Jasmina Opec, Mrs Janja Klasinc, Mr Marijan Pojbič, Mr Jakob Presečnik, Dr Vinko Gorenak, Mr Jožef Horvat by 2 p.m. and Mr Ivan Simčič. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the complementaryity of the law on organization and police work, a summary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Dr Gregor Virant, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u2	Good morning, good winter morning! A minor amendment to the Police Organization and Work Act is before you and we are solving three things. The first thing is that by the end of 2015 we will have abolished the payment of compensation for the auxiliary police. This compensation amounts to €235 per auxiliary police officer, and this suggests a savings of €750,000 at the annual level. This does not mean that we are shutting down, maintaining, training, and, if necessary, calling the auxiliary police. We hope you don't need it. However, given the situation and the budgetary situation, of course this measure is appropriate. The second thing is related to the agreement with the police unions that was concluded last year, namely, solving the problem of so-called super overtime – I apologize for speaking slightly more casually, I am direct to the dentist, there is nothing worse, just so a little more so I hope you understand me. [[…]] In short, the other thing is called super overtime. These are excesses above the legal limit. Indeed, it is only in the police that there is a situation in which police officers must, in certain cases without consent – that is, it is mandatory, there is no choice – to overstep beyond those limits laid down by the Labour Relations Act for all other employees. We agreed to make a special assessment of your so-called super-surrender. This is no exception to the single salary system, it will be paid in the form of an increased volume of work, but the government will determine the percentage; and this is probably successful, it says, for the first three super overtimes so much, for the next three so much and so on. Of course, it will only be related to the hours when work is done in such a situation and the hourly item will be slightly higher. The third thing is to arrange certain cases for the Special Forces, for members of the Special Forces. We're just comparing them in their rights with members of a special police unit. Now we have this situation where PPE members go – these are the ones who work at police stations, and then they call for special actions, say, in the case of recent demonstrations or when there are some risky football games and so on, and in those hours when they perform these special tasks, they get a special allowance under the public sector collective contract. Thus, this allowance is provided for in the single payment system, in the public sector collective agreement. All we are doing now with this law is equalizing the specialties that this same supplement already exists to them; therefore, we are not introducing any new supplement and are not interfering with the single pay system. The total financial impact is, on the one hand, €750,000 savings, on the other hand, according to a conservative estimate, about 350 000 additional costs due to these supplements, says still, under the line, €400,000 a year, while at the same time solving the problem of social partnership in our house, at the Ministry of the Interior. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u3	Thank you, too. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. For the presentation of the report, the President could be given a word which is not in the Chamber right now. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Members and Members of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be supported by the Proposal for a Law on Complements of the Law on Organisation and Work in the Police. Although the proposal is short, it is important content, as it governs the working relationship for the smooth operation of police officers in special working conditions, with particular emphasis and concern for employees. The full-time work carried out under Article 73 of the current law shall also be carried out through restrictions imposed by the Labour Relations Act. This is a specific burden which is not adequately assessed in the current legislation and will therefore provide additional financial resources by means of the proposed law to increase the value of the hours paid during work under special burdens. This proposal will give effect to the Government’s commitment to define the burden referred to in Article 73 as a specific burden in cases where police officers and police officers carry out their work longer than full-time work, when the burden is imposed beyond all the limits laid down by the law. This is a special situation where a job is decided without the consent of a police officer. The most common cases are criminals in the field of covert activity, secret observation, house investigations, emergency investigations and the like, where sometimes work without interruption lasts for more than 24 hours. The increase in wages under this proposal is limited to 30% of the basic salary and a specific percentage is determined by the Government. The proposal goes in the direction of gradual increase according to the number of hours that go beyond other legal restrictions. The coalition amendment, which was adopted in second reading at the home labour body, will allow for the equalization of the status of the special police unit and the special unit. In a special unit, payment of specific tasks with the highest level of risk and under specific conditions and burdens for the time when these tasks are carried out and in accordance with the public sector collective contract, as with members of special police units, may be systematically better regulated. However, the second solution presented by the amendment is the temporary suspension of compensation for auxiliary police officers for the time of preparedness, not for police duties. Although the auxiliary police have not been called in for many years, they have not been trained in the same way, but compensation for readiness is still being paid. This measure will save around €750,000 in the budget. The contracts already concluded will be coordinated with the auxiliary police within 30 days of the entry into force of this law. As has already been said, we will support Members and Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Slovenian Retirement Party of the Proposal for a Law on Complementation of the Police Organization Act, since, according to our assessment, it does not represent an additional burden on the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u5	Thank you, too. Ms Ljudmila Novak will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u6	Dear, good-bye! Today's proposal for amendments and the amendment of the Law on Work and Organization in the Police means the implementation of the concluded agreement between the Police Union of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. According to the content, there is a wide range of beneficiaries to raise wages to all police officers performing work in particularly difficult conditions and performing special dangerous tasks with the highest level of risk of life. The Christian Democrats of New Slovenia emphasise that we support the substantive solutions described in the proposed amendment to the law. We also support a fair and decent payment for the work of all police officers, as we are aware of their importance for human security and property. In particular, we support the appropriate payment for those police officers who perform the most demanding tasks and timeframes that exceed full-time. However, we believe that these solutions should be regulated in a collective agreement or annex to it and not in law. Not one year has passed since the adoption of the Labour and Organisation Act in the police, which is a system law, but we have already decided on its first amendments and additions. This is how we oppose the frequent change of legislation in New Slovenia. Interference with the content of the system law is justified only if there are substantial substantive reasons for doing so, which is not to be observed in this proposal for amendments and additions. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Organisation and Work of the Police interfere with the position of auxiliary police officers for 2014 and 2015. This radical intervention in the income of auxiliary police is not supported by Christian Democrats. While it is right to divide the burden of the crisis among all social groups in a time of public financial crisis, the burden of this crisis should also be borne by auxiliary police officers, but not in such a way that for two years they will not be paid for their readiness. Christian Democrats would support the proposal to reduce their payment, but we cannot support a complete abolition. Such a radical intervention will also bring a number of auxiliary officers into financial distress, just as many members of the Slovenian Armed Forces have already encountered this situation. Many auxiliary or reserve police officers will also face these consequences, as family and other expenditure were planned in anticipation of incomes for which they had already entered into a contract, where the duration of the contract and also the level of payment were set. As a result, their expectations are justified that the contractual obligations signed will also be fulfilled. The intervention of the State into the already accepted contractual obligations is, as has already been said, too harsh and is not supported by the Christian Democrats of New Slovenia. The New Slovenia Group will not support the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Organising and Working the Police.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u7	Thank you. Ms Alenka Bikar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members, Members, Minister, Secretary-General, everyone else in attendance, good morning! Two key additions have been proposed by the proposal for a law on complementing the Law on Organising and Working in the Police. The first relates to auxiliary police officers, while the second relates to the implementation of the concluded agreement between the Government and the Slovenian Police Union. The first supplement cancels payment for the readiness of auxiliary police officers for the next two years up to 31. In December 2015, the Council adopted The auxiliary police are a special organisational form of work, while the auxiliary police carry out the duties of police officers, for which they are also specially trained. However, they carry out their tasks in the event of a call and, in this case, when they are actually called upon, of course, their payments are not suspended. Thus, even after the amendment of the law, auxiliary police officers will be paid for their work, they will still receive compensation for the training period and the time when they are called in, but will no longer receive the flat rate they receive due to their status, which is 1% of the gross minimum wage. Otherwise, we would rather not have to look for such solutions, but the current general financial situation of the country, despite the slow improvement, does not allow this at present. It should be stressed, however, that this will in no way endanger the safety of citizens and citizens, since these auxiliary police officers will still be called upon in the event of natural disasters or serious threats to security, emergency or even war. Given the recent involvement of auxiliary police officers in 1995, we hope that there will be no need in the future. The second supplement, however, represents the implementation of the agreement concluded and relates to the full-time work of police officers of the special unit and other police officers who, together with them, carry out particularly difficult tasks with the highest level of risk of life. It is a matter of working time, which is determined over all the limits laid down by labour legislation, i.e. when work is carried out continuously for sixteen or even twenty hours. It is therefore a specific situation where the work of police officers is determined without its consent and it is a particular burden, which is also properly evaluated by the proposal, of course, within the framework of solutions already known by the law in force. In doing so, it must be stressed that there is no double payment for the same work, but only an increase in the value of the paid hour for the time of work under special burdens. The coalition has also tabled an amendment to this article, which provides that special unit police officers also have the same allowance for the duration of training, for the performance of the most difficult tasks and that the amendment is in line with the unions, the police leadership, the leadership of the special unit and the management of special police units. The fact is that it is an elite unit carrying out particularly dangerous tasks with the highest level of risk of life, with the highest level of psychophysical preparedness, competence and training being crucial, so it is also right for members of the special unit to be regulated in the same way as those of the special police unit. In Positive Slovenia, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Organising and Working in the Police and the amendment tabled by the Coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u9	Thank you, too. Ms Sonja Ramšak will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u10	Honourable President, Secretary of State, Secretary of State, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members! The Ministry of the Interior has submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Organising and Working in the Police. In his explanation on the working body, the Secretary of State said that the proposed law had been tabled on the basis of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Police Union of Slovenia, and that this law regulated the working relationship for the smooth performance of operational tasks in a specific working situation with special emphasis and concern for employees. The full-time work carried out under Article 73 of the Law on the Organisation and Work of the Police shall also be carried out through restrictions imposed by the Labour Relations Act. Therefore, it is a matter of burdens which are not adequately assessed in the current legislation and therefore additional financial resources are provided by the proposed law to increase the value of the hours paid during work under special burdens. On the other hand, the proposal for a law with a view to reducing budgetary costs is temporary, up to 31. 12. 2015, abolishes compensation to auxiliary police officers for the time of readiness. In his explanation, the Secretary of State said that for many years they had not called or trained auxiliary police officers, but that compensation for preparedness was still being paid. This raises the question whether auxiliary police officers are adequately trained in order to be able to carry out their tasks properly and professionally in key moments, and of course it should also be stressed whether their safety and safety are being adequately addressed. Already on the Home Working Committee, we have stressed in the debate that we support the proposed legal solutions and that we will also support the amendment tabled by the National Assembly Coalition. In the course of the debate, however, we also pointed out that the proposed law addresses the issue of hazard and specific burdens and preparedness compensation in a partial and not systematic way for all comparable professions. It is necessary to point out in particular the professional members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces who, due to their lack of respect for labour law and unequal treatment, have been in severe social distress. In addition to these, we must not forget professional firefighters and rescue workers in the protection and rescue system or other uniformed professions. These are specific jobs and tasks performed by them, unlike other public servants. We do not think it is good that the Minister, which also covers the area of public administration and local self-government in addition to internal affairs, proposes partial solutions rather than systematically and in the same and comparable manner regulating the area for all comparable professions. It is not to be forgotten, however, that the representative union of the Ministry of Defence for unequal treatment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has filed an application for the withdrawal of Minister Virant from the post of head of the government negotiating group for the public sector. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the proposed legal solutions, but we expect the Ministry of the Interior to propose systemic solutions to other comparable professions as soon as possible. The support, as I have already said, is also announced by the amendments to Article 74 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups, which regulates the area of additional payment at the time of special burdens for Special Forces officers and other police officers who, directly with the Special Unit, carry out particularly dangerous tasks with the highest level of risk of life, during the direct execution of tasks under dangerous conditions and with special burdens, because we believe that this is a particularly responsible and demanding training and that it is right for these groups of police to regulate this area in the same way as for special police officers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u11	Thank you, too. Mag. Majda Potter will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! The proposed amendment to the Police Organization and Work Act regulates working relations for two groups of uniformed police officers, and is regulated in agreement with representatives of police unions, and we are confident that they do not reduce the expected security of people and property, especially not of police and police officers. We will support the proposed amendments to the law in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. It is recalled that the amendment relating to the addition of Article 74 of the Act in question concerns the question of determining the increased volume of work at the time of specific burdens, which is affected by the proposed amendment. We have heard from the representative of the Government that the proposed amendment is also a step towards fulfilling the commitment under the 7th point of the agreement between the Government and the Slovenian Police Union since the end of May last year. The solution also relates to Article 73 of the Law on Organising and Working in the Police, which provides that the officer in charge may order the officer to complete the task he has started through full-time work. There is no need for an officer's consent in such a case, since it is likely to be such tasks that cannot be completed prematurely, and we have heard from the committee that no one rejects the order of the superior in the circumstances where the work is to be completed, for example, to protect the site of an accident or similar event. The second amendment relates to the suspension of payment for preparedness in the auxiliary police by the end of December 2015. This measure is linked to austerity measures. In the explanatory memorandum to Articles 2 and 3, the applicant stated that the police currently have 255 voluntary service contracts in the auxiliary police. The contracts already concluded will be duly harmonised within 30 days of the entry into force of this Act. Assistant police officers, when they are not called in, have no costs, so in the next two years they will not receive a stand-by allowance. During training, they are entitled to compensation for salaries and other benefits and reimbursement of training costs. We have also been informed that auxiliary police officers have not been called upon for years, nor have they received training, but have received compensation for their readiness. The proposed amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups shall be prepared in accordance with the agreement on the home working body and shall also extend to police members of the special unit to the same additive for danger and special burdens for the duration of training for the performance of such tasks. This amendment will also be supported by the Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u13	Thank you, too. Mag. Katarina Hočevar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the Secretary of State and all my colleagues and colleagues! In this composition of the National Assembly in early 2013, we adopted a new Law on Organising and Working in the Police, which laid the legal foundations for a modern police organisation. In view of the agreement concluded between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry of the Interior and the Police Union of Slovenia at the end of May 2013, it is necessary to amend the law. And these additions are ahead of us today. But these are two key additions: ours is a member of the auxiliary or reserve police and another one of the so-called super overtimees or full-time job evaluation. The Slovenian police currently have around 240 auxiliary police officers, who are called upon primarily in the event of natural and other accidents, in case of a greater threat to public security, in case of a need to protect the state border or in case of a war situation. Supportive police officers receive an average of €230 per month for this status or willingness. In view of the fact that this subsidiary was last called in 1995, and given the financial situation in the Government, it proposes not to pay this compensation in 2014 and 2015. However, the savings are redistributed for the regular operations of the police, where the financial resources complemented by the budget are very limited. This is therefore a cost-effective and cost-effective measure. The second supplement concerns the system regime for special workloads or so-called super overtimees, which are subject to all restrictions laid down by the law. Both additions, together with the amendment adopted in the course of the consideration of the draft law on the home committee, are also supported by both police unions. In the Civil Gazette, we are aware that police officers are subject to special burdens and special circumstances, so their work should also be properly evaluated, of course under the common or single pay system. We also respect the social dialogue in the Citizens' List, the result of which was the proposed additions, so we will support this amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u15	Thank you. We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Mirko Brulc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! We are discussing sensitive issues, because in this economic crisis it is of course very difficult to provide a decent payment not only to the police but also to other structures. We are at a time of globalisation and also crime coming into our country, which we have not been used to, even under the previous country by no means, there are many more murders, ugly robberies, aggressiveness on the street and so on, and that is what the police first receive. That is why I think it is necessary to adopt this amendment of the law with this amendment, which we are now talking about, in order to correct some of the imbalances in this – I am talking about responsibility, danger and performance. In Yugoslavia, we were safe with the militia, and the only aggression was if any came from the West — we'll probably talk about it at some other meetings — but otherwise there was no danger like that today. We have not been accustomed to the aggressiveness we now face in the streets. Recently, there was a TV show that points to other problems and so forth. But when it's so bad, it's always the cop who comes in first to protect the citizens, the property and the like. With regard to auxiliary police officers, I think they are now somehow falling into the ranks of volunteer firefighters; if not, you will correct me. But we also need these, and we need to, "carve" them, have them on the list, also have them trained and ready to help when help is needed. I would also mention, although this is under the responsibility of the Justice Ministry, that the unresolved remain problems with the judicial police. There are also extraordinary burdens, dangers, the number of prisoners per room and so on – we know the problems, and not least the payment of overtime and more. I will not now intervene in the field of the military, these are our uniformed forces to which this society must have a special relationship. And it is right to correct today what to fix in order to reward at least, perhaps modestly, but anyway, those who are members of special forces who have so-called super overtime, because that money really deserves. I'll support the amendment and this amendment to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u17	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I invite you to report for discussion. Social Democrats no longer have time, so Mrs Sonja Ramšak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u18	Thank you, Madam President. At first, I would point out that the Social Democrats did not have time to announce the debate – perhaps only so much, but I think that Mr Brulco's debate was extremely substantive and necessary. As I have already pointed out in the opinion of the parliamentary group, it is true that in the eyes of police officers, especially special special units and special units, there are extremely difficult professional tasks and it is right that they are properly rewarded to carry out these tasks. However, we have also pointed out on the parent committee itself that it is indeed necessary to systematically regulate this relationship, that we are actually now breaking the public sector wage system in a manner that is fine. We are all aware of the difficult situation, and we have also said on the Committee that we are aware of the difficult situation and, although we support the changes in the law and also the amendment to Article 74, that comparable areas need to be systematically regulated. In fact, we expect this to happen. In fact, I must say that I have also expressed my personal opinion that I do not agree with the fact that reserve officers are being compensated for their readiness, perhaps they could be slightly reduced. In fact, if we have either a reserve police or a reserve army, I think that this system needs to be maintained, trained, so that when it needs to be activated, they are trained and adequately prepared for these demanding tasks. I would point out one more thing; that is, Minister, I have already pointed out in the opinion of the Group of Members what concerns other comparable professions, that this system should be regulated, that I really place my heart on you, that if you listened to the Defence Committee's meeting the previous day, it can be clear to you that there is a grave violation of the labour legislation, that professional members do not even get what is due to them by law, and on the other hand we give some additional payments to a group. Furthermore, I think that similar training, difficult and professional, is also on the side of professional members and members of the Slovenian Army, professional firefighters and firefighters and security and rescue units, so in the future I do not think we will support partial solutions, but in this case we have decided to make an exception and support these proposed solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u19	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[Yeah.]] Mr Gregor Virant has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u20	Thank you. I must say that in this amendment of the law, we have been particularly careful not to interfere with the single pay system, because my role is double; on the one hand, I am a negotiator for the whole public sector; on the other hand, I am regulating matters for the Ministry of Internal Affairs and within it also for the police, and I must be careful that this is balanced so that with any intervention into the police system we do not open Pandora's box so that they do not start undermining the Dominion; in short, we do not break the single wage system. With these solutions, I'm sure we don't undermine him, because this supplement, which the law is talking about, already exists. This is already in the public sector collective contract, so it is part of a single system, supported by public sector unions, all of them, all of those who have signed the CPD, so there is no problem here in this respect. The same goes for super overtime. Others do not know this; only in the police are overtime beyond the legal limit, the limit set by the Labour Relations Act, determined so that a policeman cannot decide whether or not to do so. While this exists in health care, doctors agree to extra overtime. So I think we've limited the matter to some normal minimum. However, I must warn you that we are correcting one article of the Law on the organisation and work of the police, which has in fact reached quite gravely into the single pay system. If that article, that provision continued to apply, we would have great problems. This will now be much better with this solution. However, it is absolutely right that this supplement exists in the public sector collective agreement. This is really about the very specific tasks involved in endangering the lives and health of police officers. Those of us who had the opportunity, say, to follow the demonstration in the Market of the Republic before December, I looked at them from the office of the President of the National Assembly, and we saw how difficult and risky the work of the police in such situations is. And in such cases, when such situations are at stake, I would say, life, the health of these officers, I think it would be pointless to squander; and if I understand correctly, all the parliamentary groups agree. On the other hand, it's different with the auxiliary police. But here there is no work to be done, this compensation is paid for readiness, it is said only that they have the status of assistant officer, but that it is paid in essence not for the work done, but as a compensation for readiness. That's not how it's about an intervention in rewarding something that a man would do. If we have money to train auxiliary police officers, of course, they will be paid for the time of their training. If they need to be called, God forbid, let us hope that there will be no need for them — the last time the pope visited in 1995 or 1996. Let us hope that this will not be necessary and that they will not have to be paid. But we cannot now view this payment as some kind of social transfer, because it is not, we cannot solve social problems through such rewards. There are other mechanisms for that.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u21	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda. At the same time, however, I apologize for the time since I noticed too late that time was running out for Mr Brulco, although time had not been announced on behalf of the Group of Members. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. On the third day’s notice, this is a preliminary proposal for a product law within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the bill, I could give the floor to a representative of the Government, but he is not in the Chamber right now. That is why we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Ljudmila Novak will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u22	Your Honor! The proposal for a drug law adopted by the National Assembly on a regular basis will fully replace the existing law in view of the scope of the amendments. While the necessity of the procedure was justified by the need to transpose the two directives into our legal order, the Government has supported the regular procedure in the re-decision on the type of procedure of New Slovenia, since it is a system law in this area. In Novi Slovenija we wonder to what extent the stakeholders concerned by the proposed law will be satisfied with the adoption. In Novi Slovenija, we are also beginning to wonder to what extent the proposed legal text is the result of various lobbyist pressures on the Ministry, which has also led to the resignation of Minister Gantar and the new minister not yet in sight. The use of medicines has increased over the last decade; not only in terms of the financial resources used for their purchase, but also in terms of the volume or quantity of medicines used. In 2010, expenditure on medicinal products in the Member States of the European Union was on average almost one fifth, 19%, of all expenditure on health care, and thirdly, after spending on hospital and extra-patient treatment or care. On the basis of official records, drug consumption in Slovenia has increased by an average of 3.7% annually over the last five years. When we look at the 10-year period, the use of medicines increased by almost 60% in Slovenia. Slovenian health care is particularly inefficient in the procurement of medicines and other medical equipment and financial flows analysis is intended to indicate that it is among suppliers for cartel arrangements. Due to the lack of transparency of the public procurement system, at least EUR 50 million has been reported to the media. The health register is constantly undernourished and taxpayers need to contribute more and more to it, which on the other hand does not mean rights anymore. According to the supervisor, as many as three quarters of a billion euros are accounted for by some ten companies, while the largest share of these funds is obtained by five large-scale managers. These are the main suppliers of pharmacies with medicines that, of course, do not know the crisis. However, in the light of the amendments tabled, the legislative text does not even have the support of all coalition members in certain parts. The new Slovenia will support the amendment of Article 105 of the DeSUS Group and consequently Article 127.a, which regulates the set of business entities which are not allowed to engage in the transport of medicinal products by weight. New Slovenia supports this amendment as it introduces more transparency into the system and consequently lowers prices for registered medicinal products. Slovenia is one of the most intensive manufacturers and exporters of medicines, and on the other hand we have almost the most expensive medicines. In New Slovenia, we believe that the proposed law does not sufficiently address the price of medicines. This is also recalled in its opinion by the Council of State on the basis of numerous, even uncoordinated comments by the professional public, which are not sufficiently taken into account in the draft law. In New Slovenia, we will not oppose the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u23	Thank you. Mag. Lejla Hercegovac will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u24	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today we have a third review of the Drug Law. As has already been said, it is a completely new system law that has emerged as a result of long-standing coalition and professional coordination. Why do I keep saying that? The third examination of the law and the adoption of the whole law could be carried out at the December session, as it is in a hurry to enforce it. This is a solution relating to the transposition of the 2010 Directive of the European Union and Slovenia has already received a reminder and an opinion from the European Commission. Of course, this could cost us dearly. However, when accepting and certifying, it was already complicated by the additions or amendments adopted on the home working body, which were immediately prior to and without in-depth discussion, a major change in the sales of fat products. The content prepared on the basis of professional and coalition coordination was then returned to the first form at the meeting of the National Assembly, which was the reason for the non-admission of the law in its entirety at the December meeting. The inadequacy of the proposed solution adopted by the Health Committee did not support the writing of the Blood Transfusion Institute. Therefore, let me say that in the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia we will not support the re- tabled amendments that change the previously mentioned area of sales of the medicinal product in bulk. However, this law brings modern European guidelines to Slovenia's legal order and follows the important objectives to be re-listed here. Undoubtedly, it is essential to strengthen the protection of public health, the free and safe movement of medicinal products, and we are also laying the groundwork for more effective action in preventing the entry of counterfeit medicinal products, as we are improving the prescribed marketing authorisation procedures and ensuring the quality of production and testing of all active substances and excipients and strengthening the management and risk management system associated with medicinal products. The special chapter introduced into the law is the area of pharmacovigilance. This is a system of evaluation and response to new knowledge of the side effects and other safety aspects of the medicinal product when they are already on the market. We also want to avoid in a more appropriate way the intrusion of counterfeit medicinal products into the legal distribution chain, which can be extremely dangerous for the end-user. Let me reiterate that, through coalition coordination, we have made progress in the area of online information and the sale of medicines without a prescription. Since this is an area that should follow exclusively public interest, I am convinced that we will have to continue working together for the benefit of all of us. Above all, I would like to hear and listen better, both to politics, to the professional public and to the other interested public, which was also publicly and clearly reflected in the public presentation of opinions on the topic of current health problems that took place last week in this Chamber. In the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, we will support the proposal of the law. In addition to the entire content of the law, we will also support the added complements of coalition parliamentary groups, which are likely to be discussed more later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u25	Thank you, too. Mag. Mr Tisel will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u26	Good-bye to all of you. Dear President of the National Assembly, distinguished Madam Secretary of State with co-worker, Member of Parliament and Members! The amendment of the Medicinal Products Act has been in preparation for several years. We have listened to the professional public in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group and have made some positive changes in the formation of the law. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we did not oppose the recast Medicinal Products Act. He arrived at the parliamentary bench following an emergency procedure, and the law complements or amends the entire chapters. European directives are also pressing with their own hands and threats to the payment of penalties if the directives are not implemented in time. The greatest danger in such a difficult law is that different lobbies are opening their way into the law itself and with their influences not to say pressure, trying to improve their position on the market for demand and services. Sadly, many laws have in the past made it possible or even made it possible to risk corruption. Once the law is passed, everything is legal. Medicines are extremely sensitive goods, or if I say consumer goods, both in terms of production, quality control and efficiency and last but not least financial effect, not to say profit. Today, it has already been mentioned that wholesalers serve here greasyly, and the money comes from insurance money, according to the contributions of all employees. In this area too, something will have to be regulated, such as pharmacies, mainly public establishments, except small private ones, where the public institution cannot share profits, but must invest in the activity itself. We should also include wholesalers here, because if we are a social state, we should also cut through these fat riches, which we have recently heard a lot about in the media. Medicinal products should always be asked whether they are really necessary or useful and whether their benefit is greater than the damage that side effects can cause. This is a huge responsibility of manufacturers, distributors, regulators and, last but not least, users themselves. The European Directives, which are incorporated into the law, specifically address the evaluation of the various undesirable effects of medicinal products and the prevention of counterfeit medicinal products entering the market, so the control mechanisms must be separate from commercial ones. The new law abolishes the role of the Public Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, which has so far monitored the quality of medicines. The tasks of the official control laboratory shall be transferred from this public agency to the National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food established by the Act amending and supplementing the Health Act and resulting from the merger of the laboratories of the regional health institutions and the Institute for Health Protection and has not yet fully recovered. The transitional provisions of the law, however, state that the premises, equipment, materials for carrying out the analytical testing of medicinal products, documentation, archives and unfinished matters relating to the performance of the official control laboratory tasks related to the national laboratory shall be taken over from the public agency. Workers who are qualified to perform the tasks of the official control laboratory shall remain in a working relationship with the public agency and shall be offered a second job. It is said that the Public Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices will educate its staff; at least the staff would be transferred, because the frame is being built, not a year, two years, but decades. Well, and that's in the 204.b in the second paragraph. And here is the right thought of the Faculty of Pharmacy of the University of Ljubljana, which says it is not rational to abolish a system that works well. The official control laboratory, with its personnel and their specific competences, specialists from the drug trial, with knowledge, experience, as well as equipment and procedures within the framework of the Public Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices and previously within the Department of Pharmacy and for the testing of medicinal products, has operated appropriately, in accordance with the requirements of good laboratory control practice and quality standards and is fully comparable to other European laboratories. The testing of medicinal products for two different levels will now be at one point; first, the testing by the manufacturer of the medicinal products, and secondly, the testing by the regulatory authority. It's a conflict of interest, which is not allowed. The Committee on Health has debated the dilemma regarding the pricing of medicinal products and the register of these prices. The question was raised as to who would have the main register for medicines prices, or the public agency, according to the Ministry of Health, or the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. We have come to the conclusion that the information system must be uniform and accessible to all participants in the system; also, the electronic recipe goes in this direction. In addition, one of the main obstacles to health development is the fragmented information system. Individual health care institutions or their informatics — usually outsourcing — are blocking the whole system so that the patient’s medical record can obtain all the necessary data, both on tests, services and costs. Services will become more transparent, easier to control and cheaper. The drug law brings a lot of news in different areas. The concept of essential medicines, the field of providing medicines in emergency situations, is being introduced. The scope of the medicinal product donation is new, with a large chapter on medicines prices and price fixing. In addition, the scope of the marketing of fatty products is further regulated, the possibility of issuing annual import licences for non-authorised essential medicinal products is re-imposed, the field of retail transport is supplemented by the definition of Galenic medicinal products and the distinction between gallenic and industrial medicinal products. However, specialised shops for the sale of prescription-free medicinal products are maintained. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we supported the amendment proposed by DeSUS here on the Committee, and, of course, at the plenary session, he was transported to separate the activity of wholesalerism and drug retailing. An interesting or practical proposal from the Pharmacy’s Chamber of Public Procurement was for medicines that are issued in a pharmacy. The proposal to regulate the exemption in the Medicinal Products Act under the obligation to follow the Public Procurement Act at least for medicinal products covered by public funds is based on prescription medicines whose prices are precisely determined and defined in the applicable pricing law. And this procurement procedure just means an additional cost for pharmacies. This was also pointed out by the State Council in the opinion of the Commission on Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons. He also drew attention to the proposals made by other professional stakeholders, but the Committee on Health of the National Assembly took into account the point made in the 141st Article that all the necessary financial resources relating to the provision of medicines in exceptional circumstances would be financed from the State budget and not from the funds of compulsory health insurance providers, i.e. the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, or the law stated that the State would then refund those funds. As I mentioned, there are quite a few chapters in the new marriage. Those new articles in the marriage are very elaborate, as if the writers of the laws were paid according to the number of words. Thus, the contents become completely blurred and then become incomprehensible. Yesterday, we read in the newspaper Finance how the writer of economic laws is planted over a critical comment by Finance. This week, too, the Energy Law has been extended and liberalized. Laws should be written by people from practice: short and concise and understandable. In the parliamentary group, we will decide by our own conscience when we vote on the Medicinal Products Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u27	Thank you, too. Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u28	Dear Mr President, Madam State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, good morning! We have already pointed out in the preparation and consideration of the Medicinal Products Act that this is an extremely demanding and specialised law and that, to a large extent, there are experts or experts in this field who are particularly qualified with a substantive assessment. We have also pointed out that we are aware that the field of production, sale, regulation, control and administration of medicinal products is unlimited and large public money is invested in it, so it is, of course, strongly under pressure from various lobbying and interest groups. Both of us have proved to be right in dealing with the law so far. Various interested people in the area have constantly showered us with their professional views, which were often contradictory. A large number of debates were initiated by Article 105 of the Law. This third reading also introduces an amendment from the DeSUS Group, which seeks to prohibit wholesale trade in medicines for all public entities. In practice, this means that a number of important players who are significantly interfering with the drug market would be prevented. Social Democrats are constantly stressing that we are not in any way supporting the various creative evasions of laws, but we believe that such anomalies should be identified by the competent authorities and acted accordingly. However, ad hoc removals of individual business entities can further strengthen those companies that are already mostly in control of the drug market and are cartelly negotiating prices. Therefore, this time we will not support the amendment to Article 105 of the Law. We advocate that drug trafficking be fully and effectively regulated by the Act of Pharmacy, which is a system-wide law for this area. The ferocious reaction of some expert groups, such as the Faculty of Pharmacy, has also resulted in an already closed 153rd article transferring the activity of the official control laboratory from the Public Medicines Agency to the National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food. According to the Ministry of Health, which is proposing this amendment, it is a reasonable and professionally justified solution, since the CFSP laboratory, which is newly merged into a national laboratory, has always carried out such analyses. Social Democrats are expected to closely monitor the activity of the official control laboratory and will respond accordingly if such a decision, as some experts have warned, is shown to be not the best. We will also support the draft drug law this time. Finally, we would like to reiterate the most important points. Our main concern should be directed towards adequate access to quality, safe and effective medicines for all residents and residents of Slovenia. We expect the Social Democrats to pursue the main objective of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u29	Thank you, too. Mag. Katarina Hočevar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u30	Hello again! The use of medicines in the developed world is one of the most important methods of treating the disease, so it is important that the drug area is regulated so that the medicines are quality, safe and effective and are available to Slovenian patients in a timely manner. As in a number of other areas, Slovenia has not notified European directives in the field of medicines in time, for which Slovenia has already received an official reminder. The main reason for the adoption of the law, the new Medicines Act, is therefore to harmonise Slovenian legislation with the newly adopted Directives of the European Union and their transposition into the Slovenian legal order, as well as to take stock of all the already summarised legal acts of the European Union, which will allow for the strengthening of the high level of protection of public health of the population. Many of the comments and suggestions we have received from both the professional public and the interested institutions testify to the complex and highly professional legal material. At the time of the examination of the working body, it appeared that the decision of the National Assembly to deal with the law on a regular basis was correct and necessary, as a number of new solutions were adopted in the course of the examination of the procedure by the Health Committee, which are still improving the law. The Civil Code specifically advocated amendments to Articles 126 and 127 of the Law, which would also allow specialised shops to sell medicines online, for those medicines which can be sold in these shops. The original proposal allowed online sales only to pharmacies. We are of the opinion that excessive regulation on the drug market does not lead to greater availability of medicines. If we want to further improve the quality of life of Slovenian citizens and the quality of treatment, we need to work in a stable environment where there will be clear, transparent and fair market conditions and equal conditions for all providers of medicines and medical devices. The proposed amendment to the Civil Code was also adopted by the Committee. Slovenia is a small market that is quickly saturated and a reference country for 13 other countries with almost 120 million inhabitants. This means that any official decrease in the prices of medicinal products in Slovenia has an extremely significant impact on the pricing policies of other countries, both within and outside the European Union. This can lead to extremely limited access to new and more effective therapies in our country in the future. For all the reasons listed, the National List on the parent committee and at the second reading at the plenary session of the National Assembly did not support the amendment of the DeSUS Group to 105, which further limits this little competition in the sale of fat products that we have on our medicines market. Competition, however, is the basis for a healthy business environment. We insist that the law does not impose any additional restrictions on the transport of medicinal products in bulk, so we will not support this third reading of the Law of the DeSUS Group of Ambassadors. The bill brings important systemic solutions to the long-term supply of medicines, so the Parliamentary Group of the National List will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u31	Thank you. Mr Franz Pukšič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u32	Nice greetings, colleagues, colleagues, president, everyone from the Ministry of Health! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we asked for further clarifications in the second, that is to say, and pointed out some of the inconsistencies in the law. Even with the amendments of the coalition, some of the doubts and comments of experts were unfortunately not taken into account. This is, of course, a technically very demanding proposal for a law. The law will not only have an impact on public health, but also on health and business obligations. This will also primarily affect patients. The transposition of the European Union Directive into the Slovenian legal order and the anti-refoulement directives in the legal supply chain should be an essential reason for the adoption of a new drug law system. in the Group, we have great concerns about the support of laws, given the fact that the law included a solution that was most pointed out in the DeSUS Group – i.e. in the Group of Members who also had the Minister of Health, and I believe that it is very justified – which will allow for further irregularities in the drug market and possibly even the continuation of the monopoly of one pharmacy. In the Slovenian People's Party, we fear that part of this law is written for Ljubljana's pharmacies and the monopoly of Ljubljana's pharmacies. However, the amendment to Article 153, which amends the laboratory for which it is not known what this amendment really means and what the actual consequences of transferring the tasks of the official control laboratory from the public agency to the National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food will be. The objection of the Institute for Transfusion to the amendment to 105th Article also seems reasonable to us and would deserve clarification and consideration of the institution as an exception. If the DeSUS amendment is accepted as a firm, they will have to dispose of valuable blood products because they will no longer be allowed to sell them. Although the aim of the DeSUS amendment was to prevent monopolies, it makes sense to make it possible, and we are of course convinced in the Slovenian People's Institute for Transfusion that as an exception and that it will be able to continue the useful processing and distribution of blood products. In short, the law is very inaccurate and it is not clear whether it will bring the necessary changes to the drug market. In proof that the comments made by the experts and that the coalition did not agree on certain solutions, we decided that we would not support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State with co-workers and co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we will also support the Proposal for a Law on Medicinal Products in the third reading. Allow me not to repeat this time the content of the bill has been heard over and over again, but I will focus on the sale of drugs, where the biggest profits are turning. As we have already said at the second reading of this bill, in the DeSUS Group we are aware that access to all medicines needed by health care is essential for the effective supply of medicines to the population. Let me remind you again that in the Republic of Slovenia there are approximately 4,000 500 medicines with thousands of 500 substances on the market. Medicines should be available to residents throughout the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The sale and sale of medicinal products are extremely profitable, which many are aware of and are willing to make cartel arrangements to increase the prices of medicines on the market in order to increase their profits. The competent competition agency has recently identified and acted accordingly. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that such arrangements should not take place, in particular in the case of business entities which are providers of health activities carrying out a pharmacy activity or whose founders or owners are the business entities mentioned above. Unfortunately, they did happen, which, according to our assessment, is unacceptable. Therefore, it is the intention of Members and Members of the DeSUS Group to prevent the vertical integration of business entities and to establish a clear distinction between the basic activity of the public institution, i.e. a health or medically non-profit-oriented activity for which a public institution has been established and the objective of which must not be profit-making, and a highly profitable economic activity, including for the third treatment of the proposal of the law, to submit a proposal by the amendment to amend Article 105 of the law governing the conditions for wholesalers and for the new Article 197. According to our assessment, the reallocation and non-use of public funds intended for public health care should be stopped and the public costs intended for the supply of medicinal products from producer to retail should be increased. The position of the wholesaler within the meaning of the proposal of this law in the market economy is intended to contribute precisely to the reduction of these costs. However, as I have already mentioned, it has also been unfortunate that wholesalers established by the State or the local community have been artificially raising the prices of medicines and restricting the range of medicines, which should not have happened and is totally contrary to the purpose of establishing a public institution. With our amendments, we want to prevent a few more anomalies, namely avoiding the procurement process and thus creating the imprudentness of public institutions and increasing the possibility of inflatable costs for medicines and narrowing the range of medicines on the market due to the business interests of wholesalers who take decisions on the basis of a cost perspective that follows an increase in profits. In the DeSUS Group, we are working to prevent the impact of capital on the professional decisions of drug treatment, as well as on the professional decisions in the implementation of the pharmacy activity, as the impact of capital on professionalism leads to a decrease in the professional independence of medical or healthcare activities. If our amendment is adopted, we will not be the only country to prevent vertical integration, as the anomalies that can be caused by vertical integration are detected by more European countries and 13 European Union countries have already banned vertical integration. However, the number of these countries preventing this is increasing. In the DeSUS Group, we are given the impression that we are preventing our amendment to the country and to the local community from carrying out the activities of a drug dealer. This is certainly not true, and this is certainly not our goal. The Public Administrations Act already allows for the possibility of a public institution, in addition to its basic activities, carrying out an economic activity where it is necessary to carry out a public service. Our amendments are, in particular, a measure that pursues the objective of first carrying out an activity for which they have actually been established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u35	Thank you. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the draft law as a whole. You want a word as a representative of the government? [[After that.]] Mr Mikhael Prevc could have had a word, he is not currently in the Chamber. I therefore give the floor to Mr Brank Fick and prepare Mr Franz Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u36	Thank you very much. The drug law mainly refers to better free movement on the market, not restricting competition. If I touch on this 105th Article proposed by my colleagues in DeSUS, where they restrict business operators who are health professionals and business operators to competition on the market. If I listen to their starting points, defend the lower prices of medicines, advocate non-cartel bargaining, defend the lower prices, especially for the group most advocated, for the pensioners who are the largest consumer of medicines, this matter is, of course, contradictory. One thing is that I do not support this amendment because I believe that it limits competition in the European market and, of course, also in the Slovenian market and, of course, we will not contribute to lower drug prices. Otherwise, I understand that it is also likely that experts from the Ministry have been able to convince them accordingly. As may be the last time I understood on the Committee all those health-related problems related to the issue of calls at the Oncology Institute, to which the Ministry did not respond at the time. This is, in my opinion, one of the problems that the world is not only warning them about these matters, but that they are responding very appropriately. But that's another area. I advocate that drug trafficking be free, because once we take away the possibility of carrying out a wholesale activity, we will give it to someone else. Whether it's within those tens or five, that's another area. This is how I cannot support my colleague from DesSUS for purely market-based reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr Franz Bogovich would have the word, but he is not in the hall right now, so Mr Ivan Hršak has the word. Let's get the mags ready. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Madam President! In my position, I have actually explained everything to the Group's position. Here, however, I would answer the obvious when Mr Ficko said that we are limiting competition and competition affects the price of medicines. This is said, in fact, greater competition should essentially affect the price of medicines. Now I ask if those entities should no longer be allowed to carry out these activities: Did they affect the price of medicines in Slovenia, because of these wholesalers, prices have fallen? No! No! We have the highest prices in Slovenia. It is said that in practice this has not proved to be constructive or for what you are advocating. These gains that have been made have not gone to the public health care, have not gone to the benefit of the patients, but we are, of course, in DesSUS for this. So I wouldn't repeat all these vertical integrations, so that's what they're saying, I would say, those who are engaged in this activity, and they're actually putting these profits in their pockets. However, the aim would be to ensure that these positive trends of these activities are, of course, in favour of the patient in the Republic of Slovenia, which is not really the case. Therefore, I would suggest to all the parliamentary groups that they support these two amendments, both Article 105 and Article 197, to the benefit of our patients of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u39	Thank you, too. The word could have been mag. Ivan Vogrin and he's not in the hall right now. The next person who could have a word is Mr Ivan Simčič – he is not in the hall, Franz Pukšič is next – he is not in the hall, Mr Borut Ambrožič – is not in the hall, Mr Janez Ribič – is not in the hall either. That's what Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has to say.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The SDS Group has some problems with this law, which my fellow Member has already said more about. I estimate that in transposing directives we are much more papal than the pope, we exaggerate, and then, when things turn out to be bad, we wonder ourselves why we have introduced something. Such an example is an energy card, including a few difficulties in implementing the Directive on the free movement of patients. Some of you have mentioned that the Drug Law is a very demanding law, which is true, and it is strange that some amendments that have significantly changed the law have taken place in the adoption process. I would like to draw attention to Article 153, which is not an amendment, but has come into law in the previous proceedings, i.e. in the second reading, and with which the official control laboratory is terminated. Now I have a problem if we just stop something that works, which has a tradition, which is included in international statistics and reporting and so on, with an argument that was then stated that it is a more professional arrangement and a better quality of analysis and a more rational solution. Of course, we have no proof of this, but I think that the official control laboratory, which has operated for more than a decade, has educated a lot of people to be able to assess medicines or exercise quality control. Now this office, so this lab is going to shut down, and things are going to move somewhere else. This means that something that works and that, as I said, is established, works under a protocol and so on, we will pass it on to somewhere else and, of course, there we will start again, discover America, because it is not necessary for people to be transferred, that is, people who have been educated during these years for these works. We received Members after the amendment was adopted, a number of letters, or indeed some of the employees working in the drug quality control sector, then also thinks that with the Faculty of Pharmacy and some other associations. I think the Ministry of Health has been informed about this, but we have not received any answers. Maybe we'll do it today. Because I'm curious, we've been educating people for years, and now I don't know what they're going to do, even how many people they're going to do. On the other hand, we will invest millions again in human resources education and in setting up a system that is already working. I'm afraid we're back on the wrong track. As I said, this was introduced with an amendment, which means that the basic concept of the law did not contain it in this way. Of course, such a change would require an impact assessment or what such a change would mean. Whether the experts in the field of activity of both institutions will be involved in this new part or new form of organisation or not. Also, the costs of knowledge and education, as I said, are those people who have practically spent the last twenty years training for this work. Then also what happens to the business premises, the equipment, the materials that are in this lab. Are we going to invest millions again and buy new equipment that will then stand somewhere, as is happening to us in health institutions throughout Slovenia? In short, the question is also whether we have foreseen a situation where we are transferring the official control activity to an entity that we are at the same time granting permission to carry out an activity – is that not in conflict of interest? There are more open things that we should talk about before we do something like this. As I say, I think it's rather unthinkable, but it's obvious that it's customary for us to destroy something that we've escaped, detect America, and then when we see that things don't work, when the consequences are, we don't know who's responsible. I'm afraid that if we confirm these things in this way with the Drug Law, in a year, we'll be asking ourselves two questions about what's happening to us, and then no one will be responsible, the Minister is not, there will be another minister who can't be blamed for what's going on today. With regard to the amendment proposed by DeSUS. We are already at first reading, so in previous procedures, we will support the amendment and we will re-engage it. In principle, we do not have competition problems and it is right that there is competition, but we do not have a market in most areas. We have monopolies, and that's the problem, because little ones can only succeed if they submit to monopolies or destroy them. We have seen this in the field of economy, trade, and finally the pharmacy, etc. If we had a functioning market, like in other countries, we could make such decisions, but as long as we have monopolies, including the lobbies that I said will make sure that we arrive at the last moment of any amendment that puts this thing on our head, we have trouble pursuing it in the way that we should, or even into the system, put into law a solution that will allow the continuation of monopolies instead of working in the opposite direction. That's why, as we say, we have a problem with this law. Today, we will see what will happen next – that is, how the debate will take place and, above all, which amendments will be adopted – and we will decide on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr Darko Jazbec has the floor to prepare Mrs Jasmina Opec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u42	Thank you very much, President, for your word and a nice greeting to the Secretary of State and all the representatives from the Ministry! We have heard all about this law in the presentations. It is time for us to accept it, and it could be the previous government, because these Directives are, if we look at them, 2010, 2011 The contents are actually at the forefront of this pharmacovigilance, i.e. the party's effects, greater control, greater safety, limiting the entry of counterfeits in this field of medicines, so that it is actually a matter of greater consumer or patient safety. [[…]] Of course, there are also some dilemmas, some concerns; what we have just heard from a fellow Jeraj that some tasks are coming to the national institute or national laboratory, here we can ask ourselves whether it makes sense or not, but in fact this is just a continuation of the story that the previous government has started. At that time, this national laboratory was established and it was already thought that the contents of its work would be, among other things, this. If we already have this national laboratory set up, we should also give it content or work. However, they assured me that they have all the accreditation and expertise, so that there should be no problems in this area. As far as this 105th Article is concerned, here is the dilemma again. One country in the European Union has thus, otherwise, no unity, which means that no solution is absolutely right or best. In Slovenia we have currently registered 57 drug dealers, not just those known to us, four biggest. The Office for Transfusion Medicine carries out blood products such as human albumins, immunoglobulins, then recombinant medicinal products Why do I mention this? [[…]] These are all life-threatening preparations that are used every day. And, of course, solutions should also be found for this part, because if not, this amendment could lead to a disturbance in the supply of these preparations. I believe, and also in another article, this period is extended, until when do we need to find these solutions, but still; if we do not know the answers today, how will we know them in a year? This is not just a matter of supply disruption, but there can also be considerable material damage, jobs and so on. In Positive Slovenia, we did not absolutely oppose this interruption of this vertical link, but we wondered what would be the outcome of these wholesalers and what solutions were seen. And there was no answer by the proposer of this amendment – but this will once, we will only extend the deadline to get an answer to this question It was a little disturbing, in fact there were no true arguments. [[…]] [[…]] That's why we won't support this amendment. One of the heard arguments of other wholesalers was that there was no reciprocity, so if pharmacies could establish a cyclist, then the cyclist should also have a pharmaceutical activity. And this is not exactly where it's kept, because the horticultural activity is more profitable. So there's profit and trade at the forefront. However, the drug business deals with the public interest, i.e. the supply of medicines and is not in the same position. Now, about these prices, if they were lower or higher back then. There was a cartel agreement between certain wholesalers and now the question is whether this finding would have come if there had not been any other wholesalers or not. We don't know if it's connected to this or not, but a cartel deal in the past has been detected. In short, if this amendment were to be adopted, we would de facto abolish certain business entities and, therefore, in Positive Slovenia, we believe that this article or the area of the trade may be more subject to the Act on Pharmaceutical Activities, but not so much to this Act on Medicinal Products, which is why we will not support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u43	Thank you, too. Mrs Jasmina Opec could have a word, but she is not in the hall. That's the word "magic." Leila Hercegovac, who isn't. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u44	Thank you very much, President! In this amendment, I must say that in the second hearing, we have spoken with the Ministry of Health, whose representatives have explained to us that this vertical link must be discontinued mainly because of the absence of this interdependence and negotiation and, above all, the impact on the sale of medicinal products. However, when we have almost agreed to this agreement that it will be possible to arrange this in a different way, meaning that other legal entities could establish a wholesaler, and that means that it would not be possible to destroy this legal entity, we have received a very clear explanation that, under the Law on Public Institutions or when the local community establishes such a wholesaler – because this case is not only in Ljubljana, but also in Maribor and elsewhere – there has been a fact that we cannot actually establish such a legal entity at all for one simple reason, because there is a need to demonstrate public interest. However, you know that in the case of a wholesaler, when it comes to a trade activity, literally an importer, such a public interest is impossible to establish. Public interest is shown by local communities through pharmacies by the establishment of a pharmacy network and there is another logic. Therefore, I must say that I am seriously concerned about this amendment, particularly with those who advocate it and with those who propose it. Above all, I am concerned about what I am going to say very clearly and loudly today: this is essentially nothing more than a lobbyist amendment, and those who on the one hand advocate that the Grosses can only be established in the private sector, and in this way the state and the local community refuse the possibility of establishing such an activity. I say, of course, different from my colleague from DeSUS, that precisely with this purpose you can influence and affect the price of medicines. Of course, explanations and calculations can be very different, but nowhere else have I heard, anywhere in Europe, that the state itself waives the right to set up entities. I even argue that this could be, on the one hand, even unconstitutional, because if we looked at this logic, we could see that other legal entities set up by the State or by the local community can no longer, by this logic, establish any longer, because we can everywhere see some kind of interdependence according to the purpose and activity of such a legal person. If such an amendment were accepted, in other words, it would mean that certain critters would be practically satisfied and happy, for let us turn back to the history of when the unrest actually occurred — the unrest began when the bulwarks established by the pharmacy began to form. The pharmacy set them up with one purpose - because they were always dependent on private wholesalers who were blackmailing and setting conditions and practically binding their hands and forcing them into the situation that at the end the pharmacy was only doing business with shelves, but something else it could no longer affect. Of course, I cannot support such an amendment because I think I would work against common sense and sound logic. To this day, the Ministry of Health has not convinced me to do so, but even less so have the very proponents and advocates of such an amendment. However, it is right to find another solution if we want to stop such a vertical linkage between a pharmacy and a velodrogerist, which is that it is very clear and explicit with the law that makes it possible to establish such entities and we write this very clearly, because today it is impossible to do so with such a proposal. I cannot support the fact that the monopolies that have been cutting prices until now for 50 years will continue to price and amputate their own hands and feet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u45	Thank you. Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor. Get Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič ready. Here you go, Mrs. Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u46	In New Slovenia, however, we are convinced that this amendment, DeSUS, introduces more transparency, so we will support this amendment. Obviously, there is something wrong with the procurement so far and in these wholesales, as it is incredible that Slovenia is such a great producer of medicines with Krka and with other manufacturers, but our medicines are among the largest. Unfortunately, such derogations are also observed in other medical devices, not only in medicinal products. I am sure that someone as a wholesaler can purchase medicines for his pharmacy or supplies that he will only sell those medicines that he himself has bought and supplied, while others will certainly be neglected. In short, we want more transparency in this area, so that medicines are more affordable at the right price, but of course we are also aware that in Slovenia as patients, as citizens, we treat medicines poorly and know that many of them are also needlessly discarded. As I said, we believe that this amendment brings more transparency in ordering, so we will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u47	Thank you. Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič has the word, and the mag is being prepared. Stefan Tessel. Here you go, Mrs. Black.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u48	Thank you very much. As I have already said in the position of the Group of Members, we will not support amendment DeSUS. The first thing I would like to say is that the proponent did not foresee this solution in the original version and it did not go into our consideration until after the second reading. We have already said that it is necessary to assess the positive and negative properties of all arrangements and that we cannot evaluate all of these in such a short time. The undeniable fact is that we have failed in no way to break the cartel's bargaining of grossites and that by this way, when we disable ad hoc also, as we call it, vertical integration, of course, we will not contribute to the cost of medicines falling. We also believe in the SD Group that horizontal links should be cut off. On the other hand, it is necessary to establish a system that will prevent too few market players who, of course, dictate too high drug prices. Slovenia is a prisoner of various cartels, lobbying and so on and in the manner envisaged by the DeSUS Amendment, we will not stop this. In short, we will not support the amendment, but we are pledging in every way – of course, I do not know when this will happen – to get to the new Pharmacy Act, where we will arrange for such an event as soon as possible. By the way, last time, at the previous hearing, I mentioned that the Grosses have also submitted a constitutional assessment and they want to force themselves into setting up pharmacies. Where does all this take us? As I say, one expert group should be formed to form an appropriate response to this and this should be regulated in the Act on Pharmaceutical Activities. However, I must say that in a similar way, you may be surprised, like the SDS Group of Members, and I am expressing my own thoughts about Article 153. Indeed, we Members are not able to judge what is the most optimal decision. Whether we have a special laboratory or it's a national integrated laboratory, but if an institution as important as the Faculty of Pharmacy expresses its disagreement and great concern with this arrangement, we are concerned. Frankly, and I must also say that in the second reading of the law, this article or this new arrangement was somehow ignored, for from the first to the second reading there was a change. I really hope that we will keep a close eye on what is going on, whether this solution is better or not, or whether we will go back to an arrangement that will be optimal. Of course, I am also concerned about what will happen to the experts who worked in this national laboratory. Will they be integrated into this? Of course, I expect the Ministry of Health to respond. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u49	Thank you, too. The word has magic. Stefan Tessel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u50	Thank you. Say good-bye to everyone again! The Medicinal Products Act, as we have already said, brings quite a few good things with regard to the implementation of European Directives on the safety of medicinal products and the monitoring of negative effects and the prevention of counterfeit medicinal products on the market. In addition, quite a few things, as we all find, as far as drug control is concerned, because this new laboratory will have to do international certification because, of course, it is not just one day at a time, but let us hope that the ministry will be so smart that it will involve these people who are now working on this drug control, so that it will not be an empty time when the matter will relive in full activity. As far as wholesale activity is concerned, this drug law has so far not included this. It now implicitly or explicitly allows pharmacies or health care establishments to engage in wholesale activities. Let's just leave it as it is now that it wasn't in there, it wasn't forbidden, but it wasn't allowed. This opens the door now, because from practice, the fluid state – Ljubljana Pharmacy, Maribor Pharmacy, the Institute for Transfusion Medicine would somehow still be forgiven because it is so specific in the processing and supply of blood that it is difficult there, but they also have three years of transition period and could find a suitable solution. [[…]] This is how the Act on Pharmacy should deal with this. But now we will fully openly support the situation and this is really unacceptable. Let's just leave it the way it was in the marriage, because he didn't deal with it, he didn't ban it, he didn't let it. Now, for once, I'd let that happen, and that's really not acceptable. Pharmacies are mainly public institutions set up by municipalities and it is somehow unworthy for a public institution to spread throughout Slovenia if there is another public institution. We know that the economies of scale work here, Ljubljana's pharmacies, which are so big that they introduced some loyalty card also on those prescription drugs, on the evaluation of prescription drugs, and therefore people had discounts on others It's unacceptable, it's unhygienic. [[…]] Public institutions, pharmacies that care for some remote areas, barely survive or have to subsidize those exposures so that they can survive. There should be no competition here; however, we have private competition, private small pharmacies, which are acceptable or must be that public institutions, however, are a little more economical or are a little more rational, a little more friendly to people. This is permissible, but what has happened to Ljubljana's pharmacies or the like, is really inappropriate Now we're going to let them do a huge activity! Well, they really aren't our wholesalers of the holy cow, but there we should have a different and this enormous profit somewhere or something in the form of public institutions. I don't know that they would give more for the common good if we were a social state. But not now to open the door wide, which they will use again and again they will demand retail. This is really unacceptable, and then any hospital could be a critter for the things it consumes. But we are such a small market that it is all one competition and we will not come anywhere in this way. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the amendments of the DeSUS so that this is not recorded in this law. So far, why would it be? Let the pharmacy law and the pharmacy business and public institutions deal with these matters in a similar way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u51	Thank you, too. The word can also be used by the Government as a proponent. Would you like a word, perhaps? Yeah. I give the floor to Mrs Brigitte Chokl, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. See, as law-makers, we are faced with certain challenges; the challenges that need to be addressed in the first place, or the content of these challenges, must be addressed to our users. That's right, our people. And the state has to make sure that this is about security, trust, the functioning of the system. I think that this law brings exactly this and that we are actually entering into our legal order the things that are normal within the European Union, which are, of course, directives, although we may sometimes feel that the directives are also messyly written and that their actions and predictions are a matter of effectiveness. We certainly have, as far as this is concerned, a supervisory organisation in Brussels to verify how we have implemented the directives in our legal order. This gives rise to the complexity and length of the law, which has been mentioned as a problem. See, on the other hand, we have a problem with the provisions that we want to write down simply and clearly, but at the same time, the dilemma arises whether we have been sufficiently determined, or whether we have studied the matter sufficiently because you see a certain problem and inadequacy in the text. We will probably have to agree in Slovenia on what legislation we want. I think we are striving for simplicity and transparency, which will be in the spirit of protection and trust. With these principles, we have also made this law. We've done it for a long time and we've coordinated it for a long time. As far as the 153rd article of the law itself is concerned, you have a lot of concerns. Look, with regard to the abolition of the official control laboratory and the transfer of competence, I would say this. This laboratory has been working with approximately 50% of the legal targets, which is a major problem, namely the reduction of gaps due to undernutrition. By introducing or transferring these powers to the National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food, in fact, we combine what we have already carried out as a deficit in the laboratory in Maribor and New Town. It is said that this is not a violation or reduction of the scope of work or powers. People who are employed by the Agency remain employed by the Agency and work in the field of implementation of the findings that are actually daily in this field within the European Union. We have, I will say, an increased scope of tasks resulting from the directives adopted. However, we must be aware that our Medicines Agency is a regionally important, important player in this regulatory market, because we also have a strong drug industry. This agency is, in fact, in the function of our industry, providing exports that provide jobs that provide added value in the Republic of Slovenia. Without all these elements, we can expect a certain process to happen to us that we do not want. And we know that these tasks are still important and that is why in this context we are also strengthening the drug agency. This is the basic purpose; it is said to increase the level of knowledge, increase the volume of knowledge flows within the European Union. I think we will monitor the whole matter, because the National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food was established, as you know, from nine regional institutions. I'm just going to say, this fragmentation of knowledge across individual institutions limits us in the smallness of Slovenia. We wanted this measure to bring together functions and tasks, to specialize and to be effective in this area. For see, a laboratory in the neighborhood is waiting for them to take up certain tasks that could be done more cheaply. For the market is unforgivable, and you know that the contracting authorities strive to have the services they need as cheaply as possible. With all these measures, when we empower the national laboratory, I think we have taken one step forward to preserve the knowledge, quality and transfer of all knowledge to Slovenia as well. Indeed, we must be aware that there are 2 million of us and that, in this acute competition in which we are faced, we must actually act in a cohesive, interlinked way and that we must properly organise ourselves rationally. All these measures are intended for this very purpose. As regards competition, which has been highlighted in particular by the Civil Gazette. Unfortunately, I must say that this principle of competitiveness, as stated, is not in the field of medicines. We have a regulated market in the field of medicines. Each country regulates the field of medicines with its regulatory elements. Nowhere is this a very competitive category. Perhaps in a totally liberal environment that is not in Europe. And look, competitiveness ends at the wholesale level. In the debate on whether the measures are directed at one another, on the other, and so on, I will not let go, because the issue has shifted to a first-class political problem and I do not want to comment on it. The fact is that our health system needs rationalisation and needs measures that will lead to cost reductions so that we can preserve, emphasise, preserve the basket of rights. All these elements that we propose are just structural stones that lead to the whole picture. There are many health-care measures. They may not be exactly visible at this point, but we've had actions in recent years at the annual level, if we're calculating it all together, for 520 million. Medicines have been under constant alertness in our ministry for the past two years and we are acting by means of measures in terms of cost reduction. Look, it's taken us two years to get the drug contract to this level to start doing this. But you'll probably ask why you spent two years. In view of the fact that pharmaceutical companies and wholesalers have made constant complaints that this system would not be introduced. Look, these are the things I think it's good that you're aware of, because the general belief is that we haven't done anything about drugs. Look what's happening with the introduction of therapeutic groups! We have many complaints or objections about how dangerous this will be for humans. And I ask you, why do they do this in countries where they're rich? That's probably why they're rich because they've taken such measures. And it's not, I'll say, relevant professional objections in these countries. We've checked them out, and we're actually lagging behind in action. In our environment, however, all these things are actually accepted with some negative omen. Our health system is actually subjected to great pressure from different sides. Perhaps we are only aware of this because the crisis has struck with full force; and in the crisis, it is time to work fast on measures that will make the costs properly rationalised. See, you also mentioned the Department of Transfusion Medicine in this context. What's the problem with the Transfusion Medicine Institute? The problem was that it was a monopolistic organization that raised costs for patients. We have a circus of 17 million a year with these preparations, this is a circus. 4 to 5% of all drug consumption, and in this area too, we need to make a public order, because at the time of the price review we found that they were not exactly shaped by the principles of our public health. And these are the elements that lead us into certain proposals. There will be no collapse of any system, as we have nevertheless taken into account the specific situation of individual organisations in these elements. See, simply, we need to start getting new models; new models that will enable everyone to survive. I must also point out that, in this regard, they warn that we will now end the blood supply network. That's not true at all. Look, we protect the elements that we have developed very well in Slovenia, and that we have blood supply, and that voluntary blood supply, and that we do not pay for blood, is an essential element that we must take into account. As regards the relationship between the so-called public service and other organisations involved in the drug market. The Law on Pharmacy is governed by the public service, the Law on Pharmacy does not deal with profit activity, with velodrogeria. We know that we have gone to an economic model that supports entrepreneurship, and we are not stopping it at all. I think that some of the explanations that were given here were actually a little misleading. However, I understand that certain people have an interest, and this is a clear interest, but in this regard I will not dispute, because I think it makes no sense because we have to agree on what kind of system we will have in the country. I think there's a deal to be made at the negotiating table. If I have correctly understood your debate, you do not believe that the proposal made by DeSUS will not be voted on, but that the matter must certainly be settled within the framework of the Pharmaceutical Act. I hope that you will be at the moment when this law will be on the table, of the same opinion, because this law was coordinated last year, and I think that even seven months or so, but we have not come forward with this law. All matters have already been stopped in public debate and inter-departmental coordination. I must say that these things are of little concern to me, but I hope that in Slovenia, however, the interests of our entire community will prevail, which I have already stressed today. It would also address the issues of the Oncology Institute, which has been exposed. See, each institution has its own organs and organs or the world of the institution has to deal with certain things. The Ministry can't deal with every surgical table with every apparatus that an institution has. True, it must respond to irregularities. We've reacted to irregularities, we've checked them out, and I must say we have positive responses to this. The issue was probably also concerned with the question of water supply at the Oncology Institute. We have also responded and responded accordingly because this is a matter financed by the Ministry of Health from public funds and I think we are also acting responsibly in this context. I think in my explanation I have covered all the essential elements that you highlighted in the debate. I hope that the law for you is the law that will actually allow us in the future to carry out in Slovenia all the changes and implementations that are necessary, but again, in the spirit of safety and confidence in our health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 105 and the amendment to this Article. In doing so, I inform you that the amendment of the DeSUS Group to Article 105 is linked to the amendment of the same candidate to Article 197. We will therefore discuss them together. I am therefore putting to the debate Article 105 and 197.a. and the amendment of the DeSUS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mr. Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u54	Thank you. As I said earlier, these two amendments 105 and 197 are given in order to prevent these vertical integrations between pharmacies and health establishments, which, of course, are also involved in the wholesale of medicines. Since this is not in the interests of our healthcare professionals or patients, we propose that other parliamentary groups support it. However, since Article 197(3) relates to Article 105, if this amendment is to be adopted, transitional provisions should be added and we propose that this Article 197 also be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mag. Vogrin, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Ministry! I'd start where the secretary of state ended up. Of course, the ministry cannot deal with every table, I agree, but it must provide the conditions for the functioning of the system, if I understand correctly. I agree. That's right! And that's not exactly what we've been doing for 20 years! Madam Secretary of State should give a big round of applause. All of us. Nice speech, full of beauty – but what does practice say? What do the results say? Ladies and gentlemen, actually, I have been listening to more or less beautiful speeches in the National Assembly for two years, and some of my colleagues, Puksic, are also starting to drool. The actions count. I'm going to quote Dr. Mark Night. We're in the dark. "Procurement is not about the coincidence and incompetence of the public sector, as I originally thought, but about an extremely sophisticated system of legalised places of tax money." These are the words or quotations from a doctor, Mr. Mark Night. And this law, if only I can do this – of course I will support the DeSUS amendment and I hope that it will be adopted. For any coalition or National Assembly can only be accepted after two years of experience if any coalition party — whether in the current coalition or in the previous one — gets a little out of the way, and begins to look a little bit as we all say: what this will bring to the users. You know you can't be a judge and a prosecutor at the same time. The fact that you can do everything you want, having a monopoly and having an area of medicine and pharmacy activity as one of the most profitable, is, to say the least, worrying. It would be right for the Ministry – and now it is not Mrs Chokl's criticism personally, not the team sitting here – but we have been doing it for 20 years. We've built a system that doesn't work, ladies and gentlemen! We write well, we speak well, but things run smoothly in the back. However, the availability of health services is, as we all know, already largely available to those who pay, or from the moment you are scheduled for review, and by the time you arrive, you are already dead, you are booked for six months or a year ahead, unless you can pay tomorrow or even today. This is the system, Mrs. Chokl, which we built. That's the problem with this country. We built a wrong system that doesn't work. And that's how it is in this area. And it is right that DeSUS proposed such an amendment. And one more thing, for two key sources, how important the health department for the National Assembly, for the Government, is shown from this. First of all, we have no minister for two months and we don't need him, even for the economic sector, no, these are two resources that we don't need in Slovenia at all. And secondly, almost no one wants to be a minister anymore, except for the extraordinary enthusiasts or those who are a little overriding from one place to another. Because the system is such that it is uncontrollable and something really bad will have to happen to make it manageable. But it will not be neither with this law nor at this time; something bad must happen. We're going to go completely bankrupt and then something happens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u58	Mr. Vogrin, you've made some very serious accusations at the expense of health care as such. I'd only say this. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u59	Excuse me just a moment, just a minute. [[…]] Can you please check the time? Yes, you can. Here you go, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u60	Look, you've made very serious accusations against the medical system. Unfortunately, I must say that this is one of the rare systems that is still operating in Slovenia. And it works the way it works. that everything is fine and right – we agree that it is not. That in recent years there have been certain changes that, in fact, have occurred [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Leading to the problem of our population, I absolutely agree. We have prepared answers to this and I hope that you will be Members in the framework of the coordination of the Law on [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'll give you a chance to sign up. Mrs. Leila Hercegovac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u62	Dear Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the Government, the Ministry of Health, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the Drug Act, the third hearing, which is indeed the result of great professional and coalition coordination. We're glad to have him. Finally, we must have this because in 2010 we have already received the European Union directive and we are late for this law. We do know, however, that the European Commission has already given us a reminder and – the penalties are great. Like any marriage, it's not ideal, it's systemic, it's new marriage, and it's good to have it. But there are always points where things are at stake. In this law, we have paragraphs 105 and 179, which are at issue with some coalition partners. I would just like to point out that whatever we are doing in the Ministry and also in the National Assembly, I ask you not to point this at one place, one pharmacy, one health facility, but that this is generalised for the whole of Slovenia. In this National Assembly there is a feeling that every time such points are reached that relate to either one congregation or one mayor or one bill that touches something else, we have very controversial things here and we cannot reconcile ourselves. This means that we look personally, we look politically, we don't look systemicly, and we don't look generalized. I'm asking you nicely that there's as little of this as possible in the National Assembly, because it's easy to get in trouble with. I would only read the Act on Pharmaceuticals, which explicitly does not prohibit pharmacies from carrying out wholesale marketing operations where, in the light of the above-mentioned pharmaceutical activities, there is no economic activity and the trafficking of medicinal products in bulk governed by the Health Act Undisputed Health Act, Article 51(6) expressly provides that the sale of medicinal products in bulk is an activity of buying, storing, selling, entering, entering, importing medicinal products or exporting medicinal products, except for the granting of medicinal products to individual natural and legal persons for their personal use or use in the exercise of health activities. Again, we come to the point that we are constantly alerting: if we are to do a system law, we must do it in a package with other laws, because many points are touched by other laws. Currently, this Drug Act touches the Pharmacy Act – and we're back there! If you've heard what I've read, it doesn't specifically forbid it. I see no reason why now, if we have not arranged this, we are giving an amendment to DeSUS, which specifically for different, such or other reasons, prohibits it. When we do things that are systemic, we also do things that touch other laws. Then I'll be done. Whatever we do, there'll be problems, but we're looking for points of order, not what we're different from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Tessel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u64	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly! We have heard a lot about the good aspects of this law, and I must say that in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group we support the amendment of DeSUS, both to 105th and 197th Article, which is bound to 105th Article, because drugs are not usually consumer goods. The price of medicines is set out in particular, in very detail, by the Public Medicines Agency, and with the Minister and so on, so this is indeed a very defined system of drug prices, including margins and everything, so it is not now that a wholesaler would have had no option if he also had a retail sale. So let's stay on what it is now that health care providers are called health care institutions, and retail stores should stay on this level, and the wholesalers should remain on this level. We've heard that roughnecks want to have retail, and then there's going to be a whole lot of crap, no one gets the money, they're going to make each other compete. Let each person in his or her field of work and the State ensure and supervise that excessive profits do not go into his or her own pocket, but return to the activity itself, because we are a social state and ensure equal access to health care services as well as to medicines for all citizens and citizens. Once again: we support the amendment of DeSUS to Articles 105 and 197. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Otherwise, we're going to 126. I am putting to the debate this article and the amendment of the PS, SD, DL and DeSUS parliamentary groups. Does anyone want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] If not, then we move on to the next article, this is the 141st article, as well as the amendment of the PS, SD, DL and DeSUS groups. There's no desire to discuss it. We are moving on to Article 163 and the amendment of the PS, SD, DL and DeSUS parliamentary groups. Does anyone want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] If not, we are moving on to the 205th article I am putting to the debate, as well as the amendment of the PS, SD, DL and DeSUS groups. If no one wants to discuss this amendment, then we will conclude the debate. Excuse me, Mrs. Hercegovac. We go back, you're discussing Article 205. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u66	Thank you very much. I waited until the end because all these amendments you listed, 126, 141, 163 and 205 are more editorial in nature and there are no major debates about them. They talk about the transport of medicines for retail use, they talk about the provision of medicines in emergency situations, they talk about the obligation to apply the applicable price and they all have their own indents from 6 to 23, so they are corrections of the editorial nature and what to discuss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u67	Okay, if there's nothing to discuss, then we can close the debate. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We have therefore concluded the debate on the amendments to be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. At the end of the day, it's a second-hand proposal for a single price book. The draft law was submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. Minister Grills is just coming in to give a further explanation. We'll wait for you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u68	Dear President, honourable Members and Members, welcome! There's a bill on the uniform price of a book ahead of you. It was announced by the National Programme for Culture and announced a very important change in the design of cultural policies. On the one hand, you know that it is extremely important to ensure, from the point of view of State intervention, the proper functioning of public services, non-governmental organisations, self-employed people in culture and to provide incentives to those areas of activities of cultural interest and which also operate on the market. The law before you is very specific, is special and is also quite unusual for our legal order. However, this is a law that is in force in 12 countries of the European Union, a law that deals in a very minimal way with the field of the book. It regulates it in a way that, as you can read in Article 5, states that the publisher shall determine the price of the book when the book is published and shall not change it within six months. Six months after the book was published, the price of the book will be unchanged. The price of the book will be the same for each final buyer, in all sales places. This is actually a key content of the law; a minimal intervention in the book market, and then the single price system is one that actually promotes the equality of customers with regard to access to the book, which sets out some minimum rules and basically encourages publishers to base such a price on a book to make it more accessible. This is the experience of 12 countries, and this is also the experience that the French study has confirmed as those who speak in favour of this regime, because in all of these 12 countries the average price of the book is decreasing. We also have a reverse case. The United Kingdom, which had a good century of this arrangement, abandoned this arrangement in 1995, and the average price of the book in Britain is rising faster than the average cost of living. So, from the Slovenian book market, which is very pervasive, which produced 6,000 book addresses in 2012, which is characterised by the very important role of the library network regarding the accessibility of the book, which is characterized by a wide variety of book production, but also by the fact that we Slovenians are very poor book buyers, this arrangement brings an important novelty. This important novelty is also based on the great consensus of publishers regarding this law and we promise from this arrangement that the Slovenian book will be more accessible in the future. This is why marriage is very important. In order to somehow reduce the evidence that, in principle, the free market, which is publishing, is disproportionately disproportionate, our regulation is very nice compared to the regulations of other countries that know the uniform price of the book. Firstly, the uniform price of the book is limited to only 6 months. Secondly, since Articles 6 and 7 also provide for certain exceptions, exceptions to the fact that a single price does not apply to pre-emptive purchases or series purchases, or to the sale of books at book fairs or at presentations, literary evenings and so on. And another important exception is that the uniform price of the book is not applicable to libraries. Libraries have an important status with us. They're actually a third-party customer of all books. I hope to say that in this way we have reached an arrangement that is stimulating, which will follow the basic objective of equal access to the book for all customers in the entire territory of the Republic of Slovenia and, on the other hand, that the price of the book will be more accessible over the long term. Dear Members! In terms of public interest, I think it is a law that does not bring any budgetary burden, but it is a very important signal that the book is a special cultural commodity, that such arrangements are solely and solely bound [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] I want you to adopt this short law with 13 articles to become the 13th country of Slovenia in the EU that has this arrangement and that this 13 is actually the 13th for the happy future of the Slovenian book. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Minister Grilled. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Culture to be the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee of Mags. Majdi Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues! At its 7th meeting, on 14 January 2014, the Committee on Culture considered the draft law on the uniform value of the book submitted to the State Assembly for consideration by the Government. From a legislative and technical point of view, the Legislative and Legal Service made comments to Article 11. The opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport was presented by Dr Zoran Bozič. He stressed the principles of the protection of the Slovenian book as a public good of special cultural importance for the development of the Slovenian language and the integrated development of Slovenian society and the necessity of access to the book of all final buyers and readers during a certain period of time. The planned approach to ensuring the development of the Slovenian book leads to the promotion of Slovenian language, culture and identity. He considered that the proposed 6-month period of the uniform price of the book meant too short a period of time for the law to have positive effects. In the course of the course of business, amendments were tabled by four coalition groups up to 10 members. The purpose of the bill was presented by Minister Uroš Grilc. According to him, the purpose of the law is to provide a transparent price for a book in a 6-month period from the start of sales at all sales places. The minimum regulation of the book market through the provision of a uniform book price during a certain period of time is known by many European countries and the Slovenian bill approaches the French model, but takes into account the environmental characteristics. The single price instrument of the book brings stability in the functioning of the Slovenian book and publishing market and provides a single price regardless of the place of sale during the 6-month period. It is a short period of time and therefore does not interfere with the competitive environment, and the scope of the exemptions is also narrowed down, which would certainly have occurred over the longer term. The draft law also lays down exceptions for which the uniform price of the book in the first six months will not apply. In the long term, the positive impact of the bill is expected not only in the field of protection of the public interest of Slovenian culture, but also in the area of incentives already rich Slovenian book production. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service explained that most of the comments made in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service were taken into account by the amendments of the coalition groups and pointed out that the draft law interfered with the free pricing of the market. The Director of the Public Book Agency expressed his support for the bill, especially in view of the fact that the uniform price of the book in the first six months provides a safe purchase for the consumer. The law also has other positive effects. On behalf of most of the representatives of publishers and bookkeepers, the Head of the Chamber of Librarians and Bookkeepers at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia supported the proposal of the law, meaning the beginning of the regulation of the publishing market, which had long been expected. In doing so, he stressed the need to continuously and continuously evaluate the data envisaged in the bill. There was a discussion of the members and members of the committee and other invited members, and support was expressed for the law. The panellist further clarified the experience of other countries and responded to the comments from the discussion. After the discussion on the individual articles of the bill, the Committee adopted amendments to the coalition parliamentary groups, but did not formulate its amendments. After voting on all the articles, the Committee drew up the text of the amended law, which includes the amendments adopted, and the amended bill is an integral part of the report that you have received in writing and is a little longer than read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u71	Thank you very much, mag. Majda Potter. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Aljoša Jerič has the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u72	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. It's a nice greeting from me, too. The draft law on the uniform price of the book will regulate the Slovenian book market to the extent that Slovenian publishers have proposed for several years. The aim or objective is clear; this is to stabilise the functioning of the Slovenian book market. The law will allow for transparent pricing policy and implement a solution that is known in many countries. The book will be equally accessible to customers, readers, regardless of the place of purchase. At the end of the book, the publisher will set a price that will not change for six months and will be valid everywhere; in bookshops, shops and other outlets. Exceptions will be taken into account when ordering the entire book collection or series of books, there is also an exception to the order and payment before the outcome, the exceptions are also a fair to 20% discount and a 20% discount on the presentation of each book. A relatively short period also means a minimum market intervention, an environment in which publishing works. Of course, the desire is greater sales of books, greater readability, and the development of a bookmaking network. In Positive Slovenia we are convinced that this bill follows the public interest of Slovenian culture because it gives the book an important role in building cultural production. Inevitably, we will also get a wider and more diverse book market, which can also have a significant impact on the reading culture itself. We'll support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Jerich. Mr Jožef Jerovšek on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary! The draft law on the uniform price of the book only implies that citizens and citizens everywhere will receive a book for the same money. On the basis of a number of people's messages, especially in the last week, which deal in one way or another with the book, we doubt that the law is useful in the SDS Group. On the National Committee on Culture, which dealt with the law, the minister said that this law would make books cheaper, which we doubt. For the law only provides that the price of a book remains the same six months after the outcome in all places of sale. We agree with the point made by the Legislative and Legal Service on the proposal of the law, namely, the article setting out the uniform price of the book for a given period. The proposed solutions have an impact on the free economic initiative provided by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in Article 74, which provides that the economic initiative is free and that economic activity must not be carried out contrary to public benefit. The legislative and legal service also drew attention to the current regulation of price control, the Anti-Limiting of Competition Act lays down a general prohibition on State authorities to restrict the free presence of undertakings on the market. Then there is the Price Control Act, which stipulates that market participants freely generate prices on the basis of supply and demand and other competing factors. We note that the Single Price Act protects the interests of large publishers and bookkeepers in particular. It is also noted that they are a key customer of the books of the library, so it is not claimed that the fixed price of the book would lead to a reduction in the price of the books. The opposite will happen, for because of the monopolistic position of one distributor, the price will be the same as it will regulate its thirst after application or with the rebates that it will approve. In the SDS Group, we believe that the proposed solutions deviate from the system regime, so and because of the above-mentioned messages of acquaintances we have learned from the Group of Members that there are arguments cited by the Government from the clutches of those who are not concerned about the fate of state finances, and also not to improve the reading culture. That is why we will not support the law, and I propose to others that we do not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potrat on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. I would like to draw attention to two fundamental substantive points of the proposal. The first was a single price provision for a book which, within the first 6 months of the outcome, prevents price changes at any place of sale. The provision applies to all legal persons and independent entrepreneurs, individuals and individuals who carry out the production and sale of books on their own, and exemptions or discounts. This provision has already been clarified in the introductory presentation, so I will not explain it in more detail. However, I must also point out two fundamental concerns. One was expressed by the Legislative and Legal Service, drawing attention to the relationship between the bill and the free economic initiative, similar to the Public Competition Agency, but it did not object to the proposal. Given the importance of the book, such a derogation from the principle of free economic initiative was recognised as justified. However, in the opinion of the parliamentary group, I would point out that the proposal for a law or a law on the uniform price of the book can only be the beginning of the regulation of the book market, which has suffered a high concentration of capital in recent years. Let us only remember the DZS and the Youth Book, publishing, the unfair impact of other market channels on bookstores and problems with the economic crisis. This is what we last discussed in our questions. We are aware of the importance of the development of reading culture and the associated reading campaign, the portal of Slovenian books on the market and electronic books. In addition to the proposed law, all of this means improving the importance of the book and the position of the book as cultural goods. For consumers, this law theoretically reduces the average price of a book. In France, the effects of the law are very closely monitored and the fact is that for two decades the average price of books has been lower than the average cost of living. The law is also mentioned by the fact that it enables market stability and the equality of buyers, since publishers will think better about how much the book will cost before it is placed on the market. The price to be determined at the end shall be at least 6 months. Thus, the vision of pricing is long-term and in line with the book business, which is also long-term. Not for speculators. We have publishers who set a very high price for new books so that after this sale to libraries – that is to say, the public budget is worse – and then when the book comes to other sales channels, after about 2 months, the addresses are reduced by half. Thus, the first buyers, in this case the most common country, pay the highest price. The library discounts do not ease differences, but everyone suffers. These book speculators are not small and are damaging to the reputation of the book as a source of knowledge and reading pleasure, of course. The availability of a book as a cultural asset is an important argument for the law. If it is clear that the price will not change for longer, as the sales venues will rather take it for sale, including those in smaller places, no one prevents publishers from offering cheap books to traders, except that they have to offer the same prices to all buyers on the market, libraries, bookstores, online buyers and elsewhere, which limits unfair competition. Unfortunately, there are no good Slovenian statistics on sales value in traders. According to some estimates, less than 10 % of all books are sold in value through all commercial chains of all publications, and these are books of cheap production, for example, printed in China or in the past in Spain, for example, an older date. However, the law applies to 100%, i.e. 90 % is also important. Libraries represent about 10% of sales, by being mostly beauty. So whether the state will define itself for 10% of the cost of publishing and prevent the development of the book market for, say, 90% of the beauty industry is a fundamental issue. However, the occurrence of concentration of capital and vertical ownership of bookstores owned by publishing companies can be prevented by the protection of smaller publishers, which is certainly the case with the Single Price Act. The parliamentary group of Social Democrats will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u77	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the National Gazette, Mrs Polonca Komar shall have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u78	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The importance of the book for the existence and development of the nation is well described in the words of our poet Oton Župančič: "The book is the most eloquent witness, that the people are aware of themselves, that they live, that they want to live." That's why we need to make sure that this one is available to the widest circle of people. The key novelty brought by the Proposal for a Single Price Act is that the price of the book should not change for a period of 6 months from the start of the sale. This will make the books available to buyers at a uniform price at all sales points, and this will only apply to sales to final customers, with legal exceptions, including libraries. According to the applicant's assessment, the measure is necessary because of the irregularity of the Slovenian book market. The underlying problem with the specificity of the small market is the reduction of the volume of books, their low sales, the high average selling price and the unregulated pricing policy, and the decline in sales in bookshops. The main purpose of the single price law was to create a normative act that would stabilise this situation. The aim to achieve this is to protect the public interest of Slovenian culture and to preserve the book as a means of developing and strengthening quality and diversity of national cultural production and higher reading culture. The bill is intended to make books more accessible, while at the same time increasing reading culture and more books sold would also lead to a better position of authors. Although we are advocates of liberal logic in the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, we hope that the law will only achieve its purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Mrs. Polonca Komar. Mr Janez Ribič is next on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Minister with fellow Members, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The position of the Slovenian People's Party on the proposal for a law on the uniform price of the book is as follows. We have mixed feelings in the Slovenian People's Party when we think about the proposal for a law on the uniform value of the book. We certainly agree to live in the modern-day capitalism that has brought greed to the profit of all the seasons of our lives. We are also aware that the book is more important than just market goods. Proposers want to protect Slovenian books by law as public goods of special cultural importance for the development of individuals, societies and countries, as well as the principle of equality of buyers. The law requires publishers to determine the uniform price before the date of commencement of the sale and to mark it in accordance with the law. The single price of the book determined by the publisher shall apply to all final customers, on one condition, throughout the territory of the Republic of Slovenia for a period of at least six months. Applicants expect that the single price will change the awareness of book buying as an important part of the development of reading culture. As a result, citizens should have domestic libraries, which are a very important element of the level of development of society. All of this is true, but we are not sure that this law will achieve the expectations of the applicants. We must also be aware that we are also interfering with Article 74 of the Constitution, which speaks of free pricing. In addition, we have the Prevention of Competition Act, which generally prohibits State authorities from restricting the free entry of businesses on the market. We are also disturbed by the fact that the law does not define a book, the law speaks of a book, and in this area we also know publications, brochures, and so on. We consider the proposed law harmless in the Slovenian People's Party, but we are not sure that it will produce the expected results of the applicants. We agree that order should be made in this area and that Slovenian books should be protected and, as a result, Slovenian language should be protected, so we will support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister with fellow Members, distinguished Members and Members of Parliament, welcome to all! The numbers show that Slovenians are relatively good readers, but worse book buyers. While we rent an average of 50 units of library material each year, of which 12 are books, we only buy one or two in one year, which we spend about 25 euros for. The fact is that the Slovenian book market is particularly vulnerable due to linguistic substitution. Given the specificity of the small market, its fundamental problem is lowering the volume of books, their low sales, high average sales price and unregulated pricing policy, and falling sales in bookshops. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we believe that part of the answer to the issue of the Slovenian book market is certainly presented by the bill on the uniform price of the book. It follows the principles of the protection of the Slovenian book as a public good of special cultural importance for the development of the Slovenian language and the comprehensive development of the Slovenian society, its equal and widest possible accessibility for all buyers and readers, while ensuring the proportionality of the interests of all stakeholders in the book chain, from authors or publishers to buyers or readers of the book. During the examination of the law, the most concerns were expressed regarding the restriction of free competition, but experience in other European countries shows that such a measure protects the book from over-commercialisation while at the same time allowing for a more coordinated and optimized functioning of the entire chain of book production. At the Democratic Party of Pensioners we support the efforts of the competent ministry to provide a more systematic approach to the development of the Slovenian book and, consequently, to preserve the national identity. Therefore, Members of the DeSUS Group will support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u83	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u84	Madam Vice-President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Christian Democrats are, in principle, committed to free market pricing, but the field of publishing and selling books is of particular importance in our view. Slovenian literature is the national wealth and foundation for the existence and development of the Slovenian language. That is why it is right to protect her and to help her. Christian Democrats want to promote and financially support quality and original domestic beauty and scientific literature. The country must monitor the production of quality parts of domestic and foreign authors and also provide money for translation. The position of top creators in the field of beauty and humanities should be improved, an appropriate scale should be ensured and the quality and expertise of publishing production should be improved in the public interest. Christian Democrats of New Slovenia hope that this law goes in this direction and will enable the above objectives to be achieved. Slovenian authors and publishers cannot compete with foreigners, especially English-speaking people. Small loads and a small market in themselves mean higher issue costs and consequently higher book prices for Slovenian readers. In Novi Slovenija we understand this bill as a defence against the price dumping of publishing giants, especially internet ones, who, when entering the market, lower prices so that classical publishers do not survive. As a result, they create a monopoly on the market, which is by no means good. On the other hand, by adopting such a law, we believe that it is a great responsibility on Slovenian publishers to make use of this period of uniform price, not in the direction of maximising the price, but in determining it realistically and sustainably for book buyers. According to data on the regulation of the area in comparable foreign countries, we wonder whether a period of six months will be sufficient to protect the price or value of the books. Perhaps it would be good to review the effects of the law at some point after the law was enacted and to consider extending that period. Members of New Slovenia will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u85	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the proposal will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on ownership reshaping of the lotteries of Slovenia. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this proposal, a group of 26 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Alusha Pertinac, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u86	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Law on Property Conversion of Loteria Slovenije comes too late; for the first time, because the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, in its audit report on the functioning of the Sports Foundation in 2010, found more illegalities and inadvertent and non-transparent spending of funds. Secondly, because the novel eliminates obvious unconstitutionality when there are thousands of legitimate representatives, 7 000 500 sports companies in the Republic of Slovenia deny the right to manage public affairs because they are not allowed to participate in the Foundation's work. Thirdly, because the novel removes politics from sport or financing sport as a civil society sphere. At the same time, the novelty of the law comes just at the right time, just before the start of the winter Olympic Games, which means the return of sport and the financing of sport for athletes or sports organisations. And since it introduces two important principles, the principle of transparency, which will be ensured by the foundation operating as a single legal entity and the principle of democracy, which is based on the fact that most members of the Foundation's Council deciding on the allocation of funds will be proposed by sports organisations. Last but not least, the novel also introduces control over the operations of both foundations; both the Sports Foundations and the Foundations for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations, and reduces the expenditure of the state budget. The introduction of training for the Foundation's world of work will increase the professionalism and decision-making of the Foundation's members. Thank you so much for your word and your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Pertinac. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ms Mateja Pučnik has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u88	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleague and colleague! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, the amendments to the law introduced by the proposed Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia will not be supported. The law introduces changes in the work that discusses the composition of the Sports Foundation Board, the Foundation Director and the administrative management of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Activities. So in those parts that we have changed in May 2012, under the previous government, in order to actually bring the law closer to sports and sports users, to increase the democraticity of sport and to prevent a monopoly or conflict of interest within the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations. Obviously, however, the pressures of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, which, with the current composition of the Foundation, has indeed lost its monopoly on the allocation of funds, but still has its representatives in the world, so strong that the law is changing today. Probably wishing to replace the members of the foundation's council as soon as possible. This does not take into account the fact that, today, in the world of the Foundation, 17 representatives of national sports associations, regions and governments, who have been through open lists, i.e. in democratic elections, have been elected to the world of the Foundation. Experts in the field of sport, former top athletes and trainers working transparently are in favour of Slovenian sport. This could be seen in the report of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations, as well as in the media or via online mail, no dissatisfaction was observed. The Government, in its introduction to the reasons for the adoption of this law, states that the current procedure for appointing members to the Foundation's Council has been complex and unclear, which must certainly be challenged. In fact, the elections to the foundation's world were democratic and simple, representatives of national sports associations came to the elections held at the Ministry of Ljubljana and directly elected members of the foundation and there is nothing complicated about this. The new law therefore brings a new composition of the Sports Foundation Council, where, following this new proposal, 12 members are to be proposed by the Assembly of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia - Associations of Sports Associations, and only one member of the sports organisation, who are not members of the Olympic Committee, are to be proposed by communities and associations of municipalities of Slovenia, and one member by the Association of Sports Educators and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. It is true that the Olympic Committee of Slovenia is a top sports organisation in the field of sport, but unfortunately it does not cover all stakeholders in the civil sphere in the field of sport, who will now lose their right to vote again. Smaller links, alliances of neo-Olympic sports industries and national alliances, without voting rights in the Olympic Committee, such as the Association of Karate Organisations of Slovenia, the Association for Sport of Children and Youth of Slovenia, the Association for Auto Sport of Slovenia, Rafting Association of Slovenia and could still be listed. That the very great powers and monopoly over the distribution of lottery money through the foundation through this law are granted to the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, it is also noted in two opinions or reports from the anti-corruption commission of June 2013 and the one that came to the National Assembly yesterday. It is also disputed for the Commission that the Olympic Committees of Slovenia will propose the main members of the Foundation Council. In the report, I quote as follows: "In terms of preventing corruption and conflicts of interest and ensuring transparency of business and integrity, we believe that the proposed solution, which accumulates the power and competence of decision-making with the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, presents an objectively high risk. Although the applicant notes that it is a cross-border organisation of civil society in the field of sport, it has not in itself ensured that this will also adequately address the prevention and management of corruption risks. In our opinion, the proposal for a novel gives the Olympic Committee of Slovenia the dominant right to appoint and resolve most members of the foundation. Thus, the opinion of May last year and the Commission's report on the prevention of corruption yesterday can be read in a similar way, that the law poses a systemic risk in the functioning of the rule of law and that, by bringing power and influence into the hands of one association, the law is moving away from the principle of democracy. Thus, it is also from the fundamental constitutional principle laid down in the first Article of the Constitution, which gives rise to the right of all citizens to cooperate in the conduct of public affairs. Representatives from the NGO centre also addressed our parliamentary group, which warned us of at least three unacceptable solutions within the law that we agree with ourselves. These are the articles in the new proposal which refer to the appointment and discharge of the Foundation Director, the appointment of the Director-General and the prohibition of membership in the Foundation's world or in connection with the incompatibility or compatibility of the functions of members of the Foundation Council. In their view, it is unacceptable, too, that the Government places only non-binding opinions on the position of Director of the Foundation. It is also disputed that the Executive Committee of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia would be able to appoint the first perpetrator of the duties of the Foundation's Director immediately after the implementation of this Act, when it would be only reasonable and proper for the perpetrator to appoint the Government and later elect the Board of the Foundation. It is also clear from the report of the Anti-Corruption Commission that this solution gives rise to power in the hands of one organisation and that the Assembly of the Olympic Committee is thus raised above the world of the Foundation, which is the highest body of the Foundation by law and that this solution is not only illogical, but also contrary to the law establishing what the task of the Foundation Council is. Amendments to the law also entail the re-establishment of the post of Director as the managing authority, thereby eliminating the non-professional exercise of the office of President of the Foundation Council and transferring administrative tasks from the Ministry back to the Foundation. While this is a real burden for the ministry, the foundation is being re-emerged financially so that rationalisation here is not possible to talk about. And also with regard to the proposed appointment and discharge of the Foundation Director, the Commission has a negative opinion to prevent corruption and stresses that it offers this solution, as set out in the bill, an objective risk to corruption and other illegal and non-ethical behaviour. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we express our surprise or wonder whether the two coalition parties DeSUS and the National List, which have supported and advocated these changes in the previous government, will do otherwise today. In the parliamentary group, we are also really disappointed that the Government is currently working on how to replace the members of the Sport Foundation Council with its candidates as soon as possible, rather than dealing with how our sport, which is the only positive promotion of Slovenia in the world at this time, will be provided with sufficient resources to make it work as successfully as possible. In addition, it should be stressed that no anti-crisis measures have been taken to date for the sport sector and that the decline in resources for sport can leave a long-term negative impact on sport both at national and local level, an increased value added tax and a new real estate tax. Maybe for a long-term recovery. As I announced at the outset, we will vote in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group against the amendments to this law, but if the law is given sufficient support today and goes to a second reading, we call on the Government as well as the coalition MPs to find such solutions in the law that will not give even the slightest opportunity for corrupt risks and will in fact prevent corruption, monopoly or conflict of interest in sport and will actually be in favour of sport. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u89	Thank you very much. It's mag. Majda Potrat on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr State Secretary and Director of the Directorate, Members and Members of Parliament! The proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Conversion of Lottery of Slovenia restores the operation of the Sports Foundation to the framework of gross interventionism in the functioning of this body, which was allowed by Janša's government in the previous term. The Sports Foundation, together with its employees, transferred to the Ministry, abolished the professional position of director, whose managerial role was assumed by the President of the Council, while the proposal for appointment of members was practically centralised in the Government's Sport Expert Council and excluded from this by the Olympic Committees - Association of Sports Unions. The non-conclusion is now being resolved, the functioning of the Sports Foundation is being restored to its previous state, while taking into account the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which, when adopting amendments in 2012, also drew attention to the inexplicability of the distinction with another similar organisation, which this law also regulates, this is with the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations. In doing so, in the Group of Social Democrats, we are aware that the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, in its last opinion on 28 January this year, has pointed out that the scope of the two Foundations, the Sport Foundation and the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations must be regulated as soon as possible in a specific law. And that is also what we think, especially because we will not witness the continuous amendment of the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia by the hoof of every government. Only this will bring stability to decision making and providing financial resources for the good functioning of sport. In particular, I would like to point out that the applicant has followed the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service on the previous novelty and has eliminated the organisational imbalance with FIHO, but some new differences will need to be further clarified below. In particular: compulsory training of members of the Council of the Sport Foundation at the competent Ministry, which is not necessary for members of the FIHO Council; rules on the criteria and conditions for the use of the Sports Foundation funds shall be prepared by the Assembly of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia - Association of Sports Unions, adopted by the Council of the Sport Foundation, consent shall be given by the National Assembly; agreement shall be given to the FIHO - Regulation by the Council; the said Rules of the Sport Foundation shall be published in the Official Journal and the FIHO Regulations shall not; the Director of the Sport Foundation shall be given an opinion by the Government, the Director of FIHO shall give consent to the Government. However, the agreement was introduced for both foundations in 2007, when the functions were professional. There is also a distinction between the Sport Foundation and the FIHO between who can or must not be a member of the world and which is not addressed by this novel. It is further worth stressing that the position of a top civil society organisation in the field of sport is significantly being strengthened, namely the Olympic Committee of Slovenia - Association of Sports Unions. It's a civil society umbrella organization, whether someone admits it or not. The Assembly of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia - The Association of Sports Unions is returning and, compared to the regulation before 2012, strengthens the proposed role for the members of the Council of the Sport Foundation. Assembly of OKS - Association of Sports Unions, forming the Regulation, which is previously mentioned, the Executive Committee of the OKS - The Association of Sports Unions will appoint the first director of the Director of the Sport Foundation. Finally, let me point out once again that all governments are sorry that all governments have so far ignored the importance of harmonising legal acts. The decree providing for the establishment of the Sports Foundation is still obsolete as it is from 1998. Thus, it is not in line with the law, inter alia, in the work which provides for the composition of the Council and the professionality or non-professionalness of the Director's function. In the Group of Social Democrats, we received an opinion from the Centre of NGOs in Slovenia and the Anti-Corruption Commission. We therefore expect that, with the support of the law at first reading, the applicant will nevertheless listen to these comments that amendments will be prepared for the law, which will address the gravest shortcomings of this law, and that the amendment of the law will also be supported after the second and third readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u91	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Mr Branko Kurnjek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u92	Mr. Secretary, Mr. Director, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! The essence of the amendment of the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia is to change the composition of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia with the aim of depoliticizing this body. If this novel is adopted, 12 members of the Foundation will be proposed by the Slovenian Olympic Committee - Association of Sports Associations as the umbrella organisation of the civil sphere in the field of sport. One member will be proposed to the world by sports organisations that are not members of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, two members of the Community and the Association of Slovene Municipalities and one member of the Association of Sports Educators of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. As with the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia, the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia is reintroduced by the Director as the governing body of the Foundation. This follows the basis of an organisation theory that says that the management and management function should be separate, thereby increasing the transparency of the organisation's operation. The bill also sets out the bodies that oversee the functioning and operations of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia and the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. This solution follows the Commission's view to prevent corruption in the 2012 amendment of the law, in which the Commission supports the strengthening of the country's role in the exercise of control over both foundations. Further consideration of the bill should be given to amendments leading to an even greater alignment of the function of the Director of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations with the function of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations. Regulation should also be laid down for the appointment of the Director of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations, which has gone towards a greater role of the Government. However, once again the provision of Article 3 of the novel should be examined and amended so as to limit corruption risks to a minimum. It seems urgent that these shortcomings are rectified so that additional safeguards will be incorporated into the law, thereby reducing corruption risks, as the Commission has also pointed out in its opinion to prevent corruption two days ago. While the Commission also draws attention to the need for a system-wide law that would regulate both the Fund for the Financing of Sports Organisations and the Foundation for Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations. We should take this warning with all seriousness and approach it as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Kurnjek. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Michael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! It was only a matter of time before the ruling coalition started to use "return measures" against the pre-adopted organisation in the field of financing sport organisations. We are just reminded of the bile discussions we have been following in early summer 2012 when we discussed here the previous amendment of the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia, by which the previous coalition, part of which was also a Slovenian party, established a more balanced, transparent and finally significantly more democratic way of choosing members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations; foundations that decide to allocate funds to those sports organisations, athletes, trainers, which have actually created the Foundation. In addition, this amendment has changed the conditions regarding the incompatibility of the members of the Foundation’s Council. The abolition of administrative tasks for the Foundation by the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport was also decided. It was also decided that he would serve as chairman of the Foundation Council in an unprofessional manner. The proposed novel, in the grave, brings back a situation like that of the last novel in 2012. This re-establishes the system of appointment of members of the Sports Foundation Council in the way that the largest number of members will be proposed by the Olympic Committees of Slovenia - Association of Sports Unions. Let me remind you that, following the last amendment of this law, an arrangement was established whereby 14 members proposed to the National Assembly was proposed by the Government of Slovenia's National Sports Council for Sport, which obtained proposals from members from national sports associations in the fields of individual, collective sports, sports, neo-Olympic sports, municipal sports associations, athletes and sports coaches or experts. The proposed law, in part, follows a similar principle that the sports stakeholders mentioned above will be able to propose members to the Olympic Committee for election, but according to the Slovenian People's Party's Group, in such a way there is too much room for manipulation that we have received before the last amendment to the Act is implemented. Let me just remember how members were then proposed for appointment: members of the Assembly of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia – The Association of Sports Unions could only decide on a package of candidates who had gone through the board of the Executive Committee of the Olympic Committee before that. It was also not negligible that some sports associations in the Olympic Committee of Slovenia had the right to vote, but their vote was worth noting in the sports jargon. Such a way, according to Members of the Slovenian People's Party, was neither transparent nor democratic, and did not, in the end, ensure the balanced representation of national sports associations in the foundation's world. For this reason, we have also been inclined in the Slovenian People's Party to adopt the previous novel, which has given more autonomy directly to national sports associations. According to the proposed law, organizations other than the Olympic Committee - Associations of Sports Unions, representative associations of municipalities, associations of sports teachers' associations and government - will also be able to propose to the National Assembly in the world of the Sports Foundation. The proposed amendment of the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia is not as drastic as the regulation before last year's novel when seven members of the Council were able to propose the Olympic Committee of Slovenia directly, without taking into account the opinion of national or municipal sports associations. However, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we estimate that the current method of appointing members of the Sports Foundation Council is appropriate and no changes are needed. As far as the other proposed amendments are concerned, Members of the Slovenian People's Party are also detained. The proposed re-establishment of the Director of the Sport Foundation as the managing authority is unnecessary in our view. We also do not see any need to re-transfer administrative investment from the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport to the Foundation, as this needlessly creates new costs without any special added value in order to pay 3 000 euros as much as the Foundation Director would have received it, nor am I losing words. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that it is necessary to give athletes, the largest ambassadors of our country, the right conditions for their operation, as well as sufficient funding to perform on the world floor, as well as to encourage younger generations, so it is primarily important for us to allocate the resources available to the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations. With such organizational machinations as proposed in the amendment of the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia, we are re-forming the content, which has never proved to be very good. Therefore, the Slovenian People's Party's Group does not support the proposed law and we also assess that it is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Prevc. Democratic Stanka Group of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u96	Dear Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, Director, Honourable Members of Parliament! We already have the sixth amendment of the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia at the time of its existence. Each time the changes were generally related to changes in the composition of the membership of the Council of either one or the other Foundation, to the arrangements of the management bodies or directors of the Foundations and to the way in which the rules of the Foundation were adopted. This novel also brings nothing new, since this time, after a year and a half, we are reviewing the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations. The general position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia is that the law itself is actually a survivor, as the purpose of the legislator, who was in the ownership transformation of Lottery and in the establishment of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations and the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations, has been realized. Therefore, it would not be necessary to think too much about the drafting of a completely new legislation in this area. We are convinced that rapid and frequent amendments to this law cannot contribute positively to the realization of the purpose of the law or to the effective and fair realization of the mission of foundations. The risk of corruption or similar unethical or even illegal practices increases significantly. Also, the constant changes and new appointments of the composition of the worlds interrupt the continuity of the operation of the foundations, cause intransparency and, ultimately, create uncertainty about the groups that depend on their operation, whether they are athletes, disabled persons or beneficiaries of humanitarian aid. If we come from the fact that the foundations are in fact identical after their mission, because they both manage the resources they receive from gambling fees and also distribute them, we cannot go beyond the belief that the same matters must be handled equally. There is no reason why the same things in the same matter should be regulated differently in our parliamentary group. The differences that we are still witnessing in this novel are still not acceptable, according to our assessment. For this reason, we propose to simplify the arrangements for the appointment and discharge of the Foundation Director by setting the example of the FIHO Government as the one who gives consent to the appointment of the Director of the Sports Foundation and not just an opinion. Since the mission of foundations is a matter of strong public interest and public resources, there will be no need for an adequate system of brakes and balances. The Olympic Committees of Slovenia are once again becoming the largest participant in proposing members to the World Foundation, which is confirmed in the National Assembly. However, let it be as suggested, because, as the proponent claims, the Olympic Committee of Slovenia - the Association of Sports Unions, the umbrella organisation of the civil sphere, which brings together a large majority of the actors in the civil sphere in the field of sport, and in addition, a thorough knowledge of the current conditions, needs and problems in sport is crucial for responding effectively. However, there is also fear that the way to elect candidates will take place intransparency, even though, according to the Olympic Committee Assembly's proposal, she would elect candidates for membership in secret elections. We note that there is a lack of detailed arrangements for the conduct or procedure of the elections, and therefore our proposal is for the applicant to follow the example and to summarise the arrangements in force; therefore, a sub-legislative act should be prepared to precisely regulate this. To receive the Olympic Committees of Slovenia after this bill of excessive concentrated power, we can also see that he is the one who appoints the interim CEO of the Foundation's Council. We suggest that he be called the Government or perhaps even the National Assembly. The following of our proposals concerns the rules on the criteria and conditions for the use of funds from one Foundation and another. The adoption, consent and publication of these acts should also be regulated equally in both foundations. The Anti-Corruption Commission has similar comments that we have summarised in our position. Civil society also recalls the dangers and inconsistencies that the law, as proposed, could continue to cause. In the DeSUS Group, despite our numerous concerns and comments, we decided to support the bill at first reading. However, we expect appropriate modification of the proposed articles in the next reading of the law. If there is no hearing for corrections, we will not be able to provide support for the final vote of the law in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u97	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Matej Tonin has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u98	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! The proposed amendment of the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia is a typical example of rematching and, in the view of Christian Democrats, encourages the continuation of the cultural struggle in our beautiful country. Why am I talking like that? Because we changed the same provisions of this law recently, only a year and a half ago. This law is just another type of one that changes so quickly that even forms cannot be adapted as someone once said. In Novi Slovenije, we welcomed the fact that in the Sport Foundation Council, their representative could be proposed mainly by those organizations for which the Foundation was originally established. These are national sports associations, sports associations of municipalities, athletes, trainers and other professionals in sport. It was high time that a transparent system was also established in the area of sport financing, which would clearly define the rights and duties of the participants. Thus Slovenia has repeatedly proven that we are a nation of athletes, both by the number of recreational athletes and by the number of top athletes who intervene in international competitions in the highest cities. If I make a little joke, we were recently able to follow the Slovenian state championship in the jumps in Japan. At the same time, athletes are great ambassadors of Slovenia, our identities and, as a result, our economy. It is therefore appropriate that they may decide on the allocation of the funds to which they are intended to be allocated in the relevant bodies. But this change in the law that is before us today makes this codecision impossible again. The proposed novel will once again take the possibility of co-decision on the distribution of money intended primarily for sport and will bring the significant impact back to only one of the stakeholders, namely the Olympic Committee. Members of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats for such reckless changes, which, according to our assessment, are primarily to the detriment of Slovenian sport, unfortunately we will not support.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. Tonin. Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, Mrs Mirjam Bon Klanjšček.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u100	Your Honor! The Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia has a major problem and this is that it is not systemic. This has been pointed out by both the Constitutional Court and the Anti-Corruption Commission. In the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia we are convinced that for both foundations, this is for the Foundation of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations and the Foundation for Sport, we should write a new law, as the Lottery of Slovenia has been transformed by ownership and the legislator has already achieved its purpose. The law is constantly changing, for the fifth time since 1996, and this, according to the KPK, increases the risk of corruption. The constant change in the compositions of the worlds, in particular the ways in which members are selected, interrupts the continuity of work, which also sheds a poor light on the transparency of the operation of both foundations. In most cases, the law has changed due to the composition of the Boards of Foundations and Directors. The criteria and means for appointing those have changed accordingly. The change that is necessary between us for the Sport Foundation as the current organisation, when the Sport Foundation is organised by the Ministry of Education, Science, Sport and Youth, does not allow for sufficient transparency and independence of the Foundation's work, which the KPK has specifically warned in its opinion of 9. Seven. 2012. It is precisely because of this that we will support efforts to make the Sports Foundation an independent and independent foundation again. At the same time, we would like to point out that the procedure for appointing a director at the Foundation for Disability and Humanitarian Organisations and the Sport Foundation differs. Why, we're wondering. We are also making the following proposals on the proposed amendments. In Article 3, paragraph 3, the fourth indent is deleted as there is no reason for professional officials to be more influential in their decision-making than non-professionals. At the end of the article, a new indent should be added, which reads: "Every member of the Foundation's Council is obliged to be excluded from the discussion and decision on the application submitted to the Foundation by the company or organization of which he is a member." With regard to Article 6, we propose a text that reads: "The two directors must be subject to the same conditions and both must be given the consent of the Government, the same as the appointment of the d., to be appointed by the Government." In the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, we will support the law in the first reading with the expectation that these proposals will be taken into account, as well as the warnings of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u101	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate. At the outset, Aljuš Pertinač, State Secretary, spoke on behalf of the proposer, took the floor. Then, if you allow only because there are a lot of cancellations, the forecast for the following discussions is: Andrej Chuš, Branko Smodish and Mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u102	Thank you very much again, Madam Vice President! I listened carefully to the presentations of the views of the groups of Members. At the outset, I can say that we welcome this general debate, that it is very useful and will also help to further improve the amendments and to supplement the law in future readings, if you so decide. However, I think it is important to draw attention to some fundamental uncertainties or perhaps a lack of understanding of the subject so that there are no major misunderstandings. I would start by saying that when we talk about the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, it is well known the full title of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, which is: the Olympic Committee of Slovenia - Association of Sports Unions. Thus, the Olympic Committees of Slovenia make up sports associations; nothing that has the right of the Olympic Committee can mean a reduction in the rights of sports relations, on the contrary. As we increase our rights to the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, we increase the rights of sports unions. There are exactly two sports connections outside the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, with one candidate for membership. This seems important to me when we talk about who is representative in the field of sport. It is important to know that the Olympic Committee of Slovenia is not just a committee there, but it is an association of sports associations and they elect representatives in it and they make sovereign decisions in it, in accordance with the number and other criteria that exist for this. Last but not least, the Olympic Committee of Slovenia brings together over 7,000 500 sports companies. So much for the Olympic Committee. It has 171 members, and these companies or those members have over 350 thousand members. This is certainly the case with a representative association. With regard to the primacy that the proposed amendments and amendments to the law on rematching should be rejected. There can certainly be no argument for this time-consuming change of law, since you will remember, honourable Members and Members, that before the last amendment of the law, which was about a year and a half ago, the law changed about a year and a half ago. In short, if this is about rematching, then it was also about rematching in 2012, but I can tell you that in a particular case today it is not about rematching, but it is, as I have already pointed out, to remedy some obvious shortcomings in the current regulation. If you'll excuse me, just a few more words about these obvious flaws. As set out in the law that is now in force, the elections to the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations are the real world that we have now held within the Ministry. It would be difficult to argue that this means the return of the civil sphere or sport to the civil sphere if elections are held at the Ministry. In the framework of these elections, a member of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations was appointed, which was not on the list of candidates at all; in short, he was not a candidate and he was elected. At six meetings of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations, a representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, who had never been appointed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, went and voted in force. In short, someone obviously faked himself as a representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and at six meetings he decided where money would go to finance sports organisations. This is certainly not a system that would strengthen confidence in transparency and in the principle that politics withdraws from the sphere and sports. The election for a representative, as stated in the current law, is impossible for us to carry out in the field of sport because there is no housing organisation to bring together experts in the field of sport. Therefore, the question is probably legitimately and justly asked: Who is even a member of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations, which represents experts in the field of sport? And last but not least, a financial perspective. It has been repeatedly pointed out that, by moving the director or by re-establishing the Director as manager of the professional function at the Foundation for Sport, the financial burden of the Foundation is greater and that, if I understand correctly, it is eliminated for the budget an elegant solution whereby the Director of the Directorate for Sport played this role at the same time, unprofessionally, without additional financial compensation. In doing so, it should be known that the former Director of the Directorate for Sport at the Ministry of Education, Science, Sport and Culture at the time was also Director of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations. So much for incompatibilities. And, of course, the Directorate for Sport at the Ministry of Education, Science, Sport and Culture prepared amendments and additions to the Law on Property Transformation of the Lottery of Slovenia, which was adopted by the National Assembly in 2012. And you won't believe it, there were two of those changes and additions that were especially eye-to-eye. The first is to abolish the function of the Director of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia as a professional function, while at the same time, on the basis of this amendment of the law, the former director, the Director of the Directorate for Sport, who played both roles, was also entitled to pay a large amount of emoluments because he no longer served as Director of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations. So if the state budget has saved anything, the person concerned has certainly not been in any loss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. Pertinac. Here you go, Mr. Chush.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that. So, at the beginning, as several debaters have already said today, we all agree that we would need a system law to regulate the operation of the Sport Foundation or the FIHO, but not to adopt amendments to the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia, because in the final stage this law, if I say a little at home, has already been implemented. The lottery of Slovenia has changed and thus the main objective of the law you want to change has been achieved, of course. On the other hand, I also feel that changes are constantly changing, as the government is changing, a little over and unnecessary, as I estimate that the composition of the Council of the Sport Foundation is appropriate, evenly representing regions, industry sports associations and, of course, the Government. The new law implies that the new composition of the Sport Foundation Council will have as many as twelve members proposed by the Assembly of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia. Only one member will be proposed by sports organisations that are not members of the OKS. When I think about what kind of monopoly is also given to the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, I cannot get rid of the feeling that the government of Alenka Bratušek is privatising sport. It is more than obvious that the Olympic Committees of Slovenia want complete control over the entire means of sport in Slovenia, of course also foundations. I have heard earlier that this law will remove politics from sport, but if we look at the structure and more visible members of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, it seems to me that politics is the one that will now reach into sport. Maybe an observation. It seems easier to win parliamentary elections than to vote on the Olympic Committee of Slovenia. However, the fact that the decision-making power is concentrated in the hands of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia is confirmed by the fact that the Executive Committee of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia will be able to appoint the first perpetrator of the duties of the Foundation Director immediately after the implementation of this Act, when it is only reasonable that the perpetrator of the duties be appointed by the Government and the director, for example, later elected by the Foundation Council. Also from the report of the Anti-Corruption Commission, here I have, six pages, it is possible to understand that this solution raised the OKS Assembly over the world of the Foundation, which is the highest body of the Foundation by law, and that this solution is not only illogical, but also contrary to the law which specifically sets out what the task of the Foundation's Council should be. In recent years, sport has faced significant cuts in financial resources, and this is likely to continue in the future. The funds were used both at the country level and at the local community level. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this will leave a very long-term harmful effect on long-term recovery. The last call for co-financing of sport infrastructure by the competent ministry was made in 2008 and given that analyses show that sports facilities in Slovenia are on average 38 years old, we have to ask what we have done for sport in the last period. At the same time, we must all be aware that the property tax will heavily burden Slovenian sport. Former skier Bojan Križaj is in one of the interviews, I think October last year, said that Slovenian sports die on meals. And given what's going on, I'm afraid I have to agree. Many comments, as has already been said, have also been made by the Commission to prevent corruption in the proposed amendments to the Law on Property Transformation of the Lottery of Slovenia. I've already said, say, that we'd rather go to a systemic solution than change the composition of the world once again with a short-term solution. The Property Change Act came out. This was also confirmed by the judgment of the Constitutional Court. Since we have been changing the composition of the Sports Foundation Council for the sixth time, let us ask how those who are in sport, who are athletes and who live from sport feel this. Somehow some long-term strategies and objectives cannot be set because they are changing, and we cannot guarantee the continuity of work. If we accept the changes concerning the composition of the foundation's council, I believe that we should sit together to do so, we should prepare a new law that would probably resolve these issues in the long run. A fine example of this, for example, is also the law on bridge insurance for professional athletes, which was submitted by Member Kavtičnik, but has also been signed by many other Members, not only by the coalition, but also by the opposition. If I pull it off at the end. The Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia brings corruption risks, the monopoly of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, abolishes the good and democratic representation of all sports, brings the privatisation of sport and does not bring any necessary systemic solutions for Slovenian sport and the operation of the Sports Foundation. I propose that we reject the proposed amendments to the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia and systematically engage in the resolution of Slovenian sport. Let me say again: I also welcome the proposed draft law on bridge insurance for professional athletes, but I think we still have a lot of reserves. By rejecting the amendment, we will free up the sport of various lobbyes and give ourselves the opportunity to take systemic measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Chus. Alush Pertinac, Secretary of State, wants a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. As to who agrees or disagrees with the proposed amendments, it is probably not too much to point out that the proposal for the amendment agreed with the National Council of Disability Organizations of the Republic of Slovenia, the Olympic Committee of Slovenia - the Association of Sports Unions, if you allow me, 171 members, 7 thousand 500 sports associations, 350 thousand members, and the Professional Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Sport. With regard to who has a number of representatives following this proposal in the Sport Foundation Council, it should be pointed out that, as I mentioned earlier, two sports links, one, two, which are not members of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia in relation to sports associations, in this proposal appoint one representative and that in all cases, when representative associations or stakeholders propose representatives, the National Assembly should agree with these proposals. That is how it is difficult to speak of any monopoly on appointment, unless we are referring to the monopoly of the National Assembly as the temple of democracy and the legislative body. It should also be pointed out that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the current Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations has not replaced any representative or representative of the Government. It is also incorrect that there has been no call for financing of sport infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia since 2008. There were three such invitations, and the latter was published just a few days ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Branko Smodish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Madam President. All present, good afternoon! The bill that we are considering today could be the first step towards a rehabilitation programme to address the consequences of the actions of the previous government or of the competent minister in the field of sport. The Law on Property Conversion of Loteria Slovenije was the subject of an accident experiment by senior officials or an official in the position of the Ministry responsible for sport in the previous term, as well as in 2007. The excessive personalisation of the activities of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations has led to the individual’s interest in the public interest in sport. This has also been pointed out by supervisory mechanisms such as the Court of Auditors and the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, but without success. More! In porn their positions were deceived by the public and the legislative body in 2012 to follow the opinion of the said institution. The proposed text means a step in the right direction. Not only is he returning the proposal from the government professional council for sport to the largest civil society organisation in the field of sport, with organizational changes in the functioning of the Sport Foundation also establishes an autonomous management environment with the resources of the Lottery of Slovenia. Which was also the purpose of establishing a foundation. In 8 days the opening will be in addition to the world football championship, the biggest sports event this year, the winter Olympics in Sochi. Our athletes are given high hopes by the public. I suggest we show them our trust in this place. This can be done with the support of a bill that understands the importance of the participation of athletes in the availability of around €10 million a year. It is right for the umbrella Slovenian sports organisation to return to force, which is very principled by the legal changes in 2012. It is right that we correct the mistake of the former government and once again implement the principle of co-management in sport. I will therefore support the decision on the appropriateness of the proposal for further consideration. At the same time, I share the view that, in view of the opinions received in the examination of the proposal on the home working body, certain additions will have to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Now he's got the word "magic." Ivan Vogrin, get a mag behind him. Leila Hercegovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u110	Madam President, thank you so much for your words! In fact, I have been thinking if I could say anything about this point, and Madam President, only seemingly has nothing to do with the item being considered, so please don't interrupt me, because the custom is in the National Assembly, that you have to speak either on the left or on the right. I'm just a little bit of a talker. In some ways, I am studying why Slovenia is so unsuccessful. I'm doing it for the third book. I wrote two books, one with my own personal story, one with the story of Slovenia, now I write a third. I realize I'm lucky to be sitting in the National Assembly, having an excellent opportunity to study. I mean, I've been listening for a while, "we're correcting the mistake of the former government, the grave of the previous government, the very harmful solutions of the former government..." Well, that's not an eyewitness to an interpreter. That's what we've been doing for 20 years, you see. I think these governments and these coalitions actually have a silent alliance because they're doing another job. The former government has just done something, and the current government would probably have no other job if it hadn't changed that. And we do it all the time. You know they'll miss us sooner or later. However, I think that the slow majority of people in this House are already a little tired of us always arguing what we are doing to correct some of the mistakes of someone earlier. Would you not come up with one proposal and say this is our proposal and justify it? I think we're doing really wrong. No later than two years, of course, there will be new elections and it will certainly not be the same government and the same coalition. Then in two-and-a-half, three years, we'll listen the same way that we'll change this marriage again. We change every marriage! Every coalition and every government! Do you know this isn't normal? Well, that's not a direct statement. That's my conclusion. I've been sitting here for two years trying to figure out why. Look, I'll be honest with you. It took me a long time to figure out the causes of my company's bankruptcy. I was the main cause. I made the wrong decisions at the wrong time, I wasn't careful enough, and so on. Who do you think is responsible for the bankruptcy of Slovenia? They are not the two gentlemen who are now sitting there defending solutions, but if they are doing as the President of the Government said when she was in the supervisory council, she is responsible in the ministry. That's what politicians call it. You see, we're trapped in a bad trap that we can't get out of. And of course, if a person thought carefully, you don't even know if he was still talking, would make any suggestions, would make any comments, would you support, or would you say no, because it just doesn't make any sense and conclusion. But to make everyone do everything wrong, you know, I don't believe it either! So these arguments, how the previous ones did everything wrong, and now we're doing great, I don't believe it, so I'm lucky that I don't belong to the left or the right. I will not vote on this matter at all, because I think we should do something different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u111	Thank you very much. As you have already predicted, you have indeed completely missed the agenda. Magistrate Leila Hercegovac, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u112	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice President, Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! The first consideration of the novels of the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia has a lively debate. Why? Where there's money, there's always a problem. And this is an area that is always unregulated from a financial point of view. That's why we've changed it five times since 1990. And each of you here, who has said anything about the Law of Property Conversion of Lottery, is right. But now it's a problem how to put all these "rights" in one "right." I must say that in two years there have been a lot of comments on this foundation and on this amendment to the law, that we Members have received a lot of letters from different parts and that it is clearly held that this area is still very messy, despite the fact that it has been changed five times, and that there is still room for corruption and action, as confirmed by the PKK by its latest report of January. I want to believe that every time we change the law, we want to bring good and new things into the law, but I always warn that it is good to do systemic laws and also those laws that touch others together, because that is the only way we can make things right, and otherwise we always leave room for certain uncertainties. I will end by saying that there is no reason why the first-reading law should not be allowed to go forward, but I place it on the soul of the Ministry and the Government to regulate either by-laws or two new laws that will clearly determine the issue of corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor now. Ms Saša Kos, Borut Ambrožič, Janja Attack and Mag. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u114	Thank you so much for saying that. That's a nice hello to you all! Undoubtedly, where there's money, there's trouble. Those who have to earn money face problems of how to raise money, while those who have money, especially when it comes in an easy way, have problems how to distribute it transparently. And there's probably a tempting moment where, if it's not well-made enough, there's an appetite for money to be treated intransparency. As far as the need or justification for getting money from athletes is concerned, I fully agree. We should get even more if it were only available, but especially those athletes who are involved in sport and thus Slovenia raise the reputation and visibility in international eyes. But, unfortunately, it is often with this kind of money that should be directed to athletes, acting intransparency and in a way that flows into the pockets of those who do not have much sport, and this is about private appetites. Even where these funds are shared, such experiments always exist, and so there has always been so much involvement in this law, which determines the composition of this world. When Mr Pertinac explained earlier that some people were saying to this law that he was reverential, that is not the case. It has been almost a year now since the current government has been in power, and these changes have not occurred. That is why I would like to remind him, as far as we know, that text of the law was already somehow written in those frameworks in March, and because of its non-compliance with both the anti-corruption commission, with which it is not yet, as with the coalition, as well as with non-governmental organisations, remained in the drawer and quietly went through the government procedure and landed in Parliament in November. Thus, this claim is somewhat incorrect. The Secretary of State had previously explained that, on the basis of the current arrangement of the Council composition, an alleged member of the Council was attending the meetings and that no one knew about it, and that this alleged member had also decided to share the money. Look, here's the responsibility of the president of the world, or whoever led this, that if they don't know him, they'll have to prove who he is somehow. Will such abuses occur in the current system of the world’s system if someone holds the world’s meeting irresponsibly? Maybe not, after one year, if everyone knows each other. However, this law of such anomalies, which are likely to be present, unfortunately, does not end. I would now touch on the content of the proposed law. And before that, here's the next comment. Earlier, the Secretary of State, Mr Pertinac, had said that the Olympic Committees had agreed to this text. I bet that the Olympic Committees probably even wrote it or suggested very important how it should be written. For what is now written is actually written on the skin of the Olympic Committee, and we could also transform the title of the law into the Olympic Committee Act and the way money is given. Look, I'm sorry about that. Why is it such a monopoly, which is certainly obvious here, to give only to the Olympic Committee now? The athletes who are members of this question also disagree with the possibility of a democratic decision on the Olympic Committee. Here those structures are so interconnected at the very top that it is virtually impossible to make any changes. And you're always giving this Olympic committee, whatever you're doing here, a representative role that's the biggest – that's what you're doing. But this does not mean that this is the most democratic way in which it works, but mainly in the interest or in the benefit of all athletes. Even those comments already made in March of that month, which were not harmonised, have now remained entirely in this text. Members' groups, mostly, or some of the debaters, have also pointed out this. Mr Secretary of State, I ask you now whether, by November of this month of these changes, which have also led to this direction, for which concerns are being raised today, you have not been prepared to change, and now you will be ready to agree, because now only Members can change it. And now you're gonna do it because you see there's not enough support? Why was it not previously taken into account the well-intentioned comment of the anti-corruption commission, which, in the last opinion, wrote very nicely that it was proposed that this law should be rejected and that it should go into a system law that would solve it? That would make the most sense, so I will not support this law either, because today it would be right to refuse to begin today with the drafting of a system law that will solve it in the way it is. This is a law that no longer serves the purpose that it should. Similarly, all the corruption risks identified by the anti-corruption commission and included in such a text remain. Why didn't you take that into consideration? Now that the parliamentary groups, Members, have expressed doubts about this and have also announced non-support in the second reading, will you listen? Look, it's a prank! For six months you have been deaf and blind to all the comments of NGOs, not least of all coalition colleagues, some Members know that they disagreed with such solutions and do not agree with them today. You didn't listen to it, but now it's like you're gonna listen. Just like NGOs. They, too, had great concerns and comments were not taken into account. It's also about these solutions that are in there. Look, for example, you wrote down that the Government's Sports Foundation gives only an opinion. Look, how could you even write one like that, excuse me, stupidity!? The government will give him an opinion. What is the opinion — nothing! It would be better if we didn't write anything! There must be agreement if such an institution is to be included in it. I also share the opinion of those who point out why we should distinguish between one foundation or another. One will be called that and the other one will be named that way. Therefore, no one will convince me: this law is intended solely to replace the existing or current composition of the world as soon as possible, and that, of course, people will then be set up again so that they can use these large funds in a non-transparent manner and in their own measure. That this thought is justified shows, last but not least, a rather up-to-date disclosure of how the money was distributed by former Minister Luksic, where very large money was actually used for certain things that are of no application today, and some have made very good use of public money. There are always such projects that are financed, money is distributed, and this is also a key reason why this law is now being adopted in such a form. That is why I, as well as our parliamentary group, as has already been announced, will not support this law in the first reading, and it would be most reasonable to reject it, to go into a system law and this matter is regulated in such a way that it will be in the interest of athletes. For everything else is likely to be an intermediate solution, and sooner or later there will be changes in the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u115	Thank you very much. A representative of the Government signed up for this. Here you go, Mr. Pertinac.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u116	Thank you so much for saying that. Look, if you were mean, I'd take Mr Grill's bet, because of course you'd lose it. This law did not arise on the Olympic Committee of Slovenia. It was created primarily by the Ministry, as the previous law was likely to have been, with the difference that the one who wrote the previous law said in that it would be possible, after he had left the post he managed at the same time, to pay at least EUR 16,000 to the Foundation's true director. That's an essential difference. I believe that in both cases, the law was created by the ministries. As for the fact that there is already a text from March, it certainly does not. See, the government appointed me on March 25th, and I can tell you that there was no text of amendments to this Act in March. This does not mean that since March this would have circled and that we would have sought agreement and taken into account, disregarded the comment. As far as the coordination process is concerned, you know him as well as I do, so you wouldn't go into detail here. However, I would say that when we talk about comments on amendments and additions, we still need to separate the speakers from those comments. If we refer to the views of the NGO centre, the so-called CNEVOS, it should be stressed that it does not include sports organisations and that this is not the position of sports organisations. In short, this is the opinion of non-Sport NGOs, but I agree that it is still relevant and I repeat the commitment to take it into account where possible or meaningful. With regard to the opinion of the Anti-Corruption Commission or the Anti-Corruption Commission, you know that it has issued two opinions: one last May, so it is not appropriate to refer to that position, because it has issued a new one recently, one day ago, on the one with May, we responded with additional proposals and with some coordination that led to this new opinion, which is much nicer to the amendment proposal and to the amendment of the law than it was the first. Of course, because of the time frame – I said a few days – it has not yet been possible to respond to all the concerns expressed in this opinion, and I am sure that this will be possible in the next legislative process. What is essential in the Commission's view to prevent corruption is once again a fact of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, and the association of industry sports associations does not appoint representatives following the amendment proposal and the addition of the law to the foundation's world, but proposes them, and the proposals must be agreed by the National Assembly. As far as increasing corruption risks are concerned, there is a need to weigh between two evils if you want me to say so. First, whether the increased corruption risks are suspected, as the Anti-Corruption Commission has pointed out, are very likely to justify or, let us put it simply, the actual unconstitutional nature by which, as I said earlier, the 7000 500 sports associations in the Republic of Slovenia are prevented from participating in the Foundation's work. Be careful, this is unprofessional – that there will be no misunderstanding – the officials of these sports organisations, who have dedicated their entire lives to sport in such and other roles and we, if followed by the Commission's opinion to prevent corruption in its entirety, continue to draw attention to the anti-constitutional situation, which has also been pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, when the previous amendments and additions to the law in question have been adopted, which prevents these people from exercising their constitutional right to participate in the management of public affairs. Well, when we weighed between these two evils at the Ministry, we say on the one hand the possibility of increasing corruption risks, and on the other hand the apparent unconstitutionality that prevents so many people from exercising their constitutional rights, we have decided that it is a minor evil if, in the Commission's view, we increase corruption risks slightly, so that, of course, provisions can still be made in the amendments and additions that reduce these corruption risks. One was already proposed here today and would be pleased to support it as a proposal. In short, it is not a matter of not taking into account the Commission's opinion on preventing corruption, but of weighing between these two extremes. The reason why we are proposing amendments and additions to the existing law, but not to the new system law, as has already been raised several times today, is very simple. The law in force is hanging, the threat of constitutional judgment is seriously hanging. In our opinion, in the event of an initiative to assess constitutionality, the law in the Constitutional Court would fall. The consequences would be that we would not have a law, we would not have a legal basis for the distribution of funds to sports organisations in the Republic of Slovenia; in the year when we have the winter Olympics and when we have, although Slovenia has not included itself in it, if you want, the world football championship and one year after we had the European basketball championship in the Republic of Slovenia. Surely it is not good for them to agree to come into a position where we risk that the law in the Constitutional Court does not hold up and that it is repealed. That's the main reason. However, the second reason is that while waiting for the systemic solutions for which you are admitting themselves will be difficult to reach agreement in the National Assembly, but perhaps majority support, we do not know this, because so far such attempts have not been successful, that while waiting for this systemic change we do not maintain a state whereby one person can write the law and then, as a non-professional director or chairman of the Sport Foundation Council, also executes it. The current legal situation is such and we would like to change that, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u117	Thank you very much. A few people have just checked out. So it's Master Miriam Bon Klanjšček's turn. Mr Ivan Hršak, Mr Jože Tanko, Master Majda Potrate, is also preparing for it, and then we will be slowly nearing the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! In 2012, with the amendment of the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia, we did not get a solution that would have a positive impact on the greater independence and transparency of the operation of the Sports Foundation. This amendment also set out a very complex procedure and in certain places a very unclear procedure for appointing members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. In addition, the Olympic Committees of Slovenia - Association of Sports Associations as a umbrella sport organization - were excluded from the decision on the members of the Sports Foundation Council. Moreover, this amendment stipulated that the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia no longer has a director as its managing authority and that the administrative tasks for the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia are carried out by the Ministry responsible for sport. Let me say interestingly, in 2007, the Government, also led by Mr Janez Janša, had the opposite opinion when the amendment was introduced, since it then professionalised the function of director of both foundations and justified this on the basis of the necessity of introducing a professional director, since it was ultimately responsible for the legality of business with more than EUR 10 million per year. By transferring all administrative tasks from the Fund for the Financing of Sport Organisations to the Ministry of Sport, sport in Slovenia has in fact been subordinated to politics, as it is possible for the Director of the Sport Directorate to directly supervise the work of the professional council and the foundation council. This is totally contrary to the principles of the White Paper on Sport published by the European Commission, which underlines the importance of the participation of NGOs in sport management. The legislative and legal service, as well as the KPK, had already warned at the time of the adoption of the amendment of the law in 2012 that the solutions in the novel were poor and risked corruption and conflicts of interest. We therefore have before us a new law that takes into account the opinions of the professions and the public concerned. It is proposed to amend the composition of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in order to depoliticise this body and to follow the principle of democracy. On the basis of the current law in force, 14 of the 17 members of the Foundation's Council propose to appoint the Section Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Sport established by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. According to a new report, 12 members will be proposed by the Olympic Committees of Slovenia - Association of Sports Associations as the umbrella organisation of the civil sphere in the field of sport, which brings together a large majority of participants in the civil sphere in the field of sport in the Republic of Slovenia, two members of the Community and the Association of municipalities of Slovenia, one member of a sport organisation other than members of OK Slovenia, the Association of Sports Educators of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Upon the re-establishment of the Director as the managing authority of the Sport Foundation, the Foundation will again perform administrative tasks for the Foundation on its own and no longer the competent ministry. This follows the basis of an organisation theory that says that the management and management function should be separate, thereby increasing the transparency of operations in organisations. In addition, it is added that the members of the Council of the Sport Foundation may not be those of the organisations which are recipients of the Foundation’s financial resources and who are employed as responsible persons or representatives of those organisations. Training is also being introduced for work in the Council of the Sport Foundation, which will increase the professionalism and decision-making of members of the Foundation's Council and explicitly identify the bodies that oversee the functioning and operations of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia and the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed amendments to the Law are good and particularly urgent, and that is why I call on the Government to take further account of the Commission's recent warnings and opinions on anti-corruption, in which it points out that the scope of the two Foundations, the Sport Foundation and the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations should be regulated as soon as possible in a specific law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Since I don't see any of the other applicants in the hall, I give the word mags. Majdi Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. First of all, I would like to express my opinion that sport is the only activity in the world that can be seen in a good light. I would remind you that there are probably also art, science and other enforcement activities for the state of Slovenia. This is what I am relying on in a recent survey, when one of the Slovenian journals asked who, in their opinion, deserved an extraordinary or extraordinary pension, and more than half of the respondents thought that all the three activities I was talking about, but those who spoke for one of them were almost equal to sport and art, and for 10 times more thought that they deserved extraordinary pensions of science or scientists and scientists. So much for how little positive we can find in our country and the enforcement possibilities of our country. Now for the proposed amendment to the law. I have already mentioned that, according to the rule of the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia, we always have a very lively debate and that these are time-bound to government exchanges. I was also involved in the changes to that part of the law that affected FIHO. There was no less gruesome debate as to how the world should be composed, what are the risks of corruption and what are the risks of these discussions. However, I would like to draw another specific note, which I myself experienced in the mandate of the Pahor government, when we needed to confirm in the National Assembly the rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations from January 2009 to October 2010. Not to mention how we had to exercise between permissive and admissible, when we confirmed these rules at an emergency meeting of the Committee and then placed them at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, with current advocates of the 2012 Law Amendment very much objecting to such conduct so that the rules would be included in an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, even though it was a key person for such conduct, a person who was clearly in violation of certain provisions and who held two functions at the same time. I would point out another feature: that I did not notice such will in the light of the opinion of the Legal and Anti-Corruption Commission in the adoption of the novel in 2012. There we warned the opposition of unacceptable solutions, such as the transfer of unsolicited officials and similar matters. We quietly passed the bad report of the Court of Auditors. Some of them didn't care at all! And I am very interested in how the current biggest opposition party may have forgotten something very important to me; that the compensation paid by the former functional amphibians has fallen out of the Fund's financial report. Very interesting! As the report then showed that the Sports Foundation had worked very well, but the stone also contributed to this success by disregarding the payment of the pension. I am only opening up questions that are on very, very dangerous ground, and this does not diminish my expectation, which is related to the warnings of the anti-corruption commission and the findings of the Constitutional Court, but it is time to adopt a comprehensive law that would provide systemic solutions for the operation of both foundations financed by the Lottery of Slovenia. However, I cannot, of course, close my eyes to the fact that when we are loving and necessary to carry out our own project, some warnings are simply not visible and we are talking about rematching, but we are ignoring a number of procedures that have been carried out during the second term of the Janša government, as regards the Sports Council, as regards many other things, including the appointment of 17 members, and the fact that the Member appointed by the Government is responsible, in accordance with the proposal of the 2012 law, for the Ministry of Finance, not for the department responsible for sport. So much for how consistent we are with certain proposals. Once again, I would like to point out that CNVOS has not given its support to the proposed law, but it has pointed out three things that can be included in the second reading amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Now I'm asking if a representative of the government would like a word because we're at the end. So no. Would anyone else like to discuss it? All those of you who wanted it, you've already got your word, but we still have some time. If he does not want to, then I find that all the panellists reported have received the floor and I conclude the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the confiscation of the assets of an illegal source. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, a group of twenty-six Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Senk Plitcanič, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u122	Dear Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Before you is an important amendment to the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin. Allow me a few brief introductory explanations for this novel. As you know, the law itself was passed as a parliamentary law in 2011. In practice, it has been shown that the effective implementation of this law requires some important changes that are ahead of you today. This has been demonstrated in our Ministry of Justice, intensive communication with all those who must implement this law. These are state prosecutors, then the police, Durs, the Anti-Corruption Commission. In our dialogue with all of them, we have found that some changes are necessary, all with the aim of bringing this law to life in practice. Allow me a few words about what the purpose of this law is. The purpose of this law is to confiscate assets obtained in an illegal way, i.e. by criminal offences in previous years. We all know that or at least the feeling that I have as Minister is that a lot of this property has been acquired in an illegal way, and this law, in addition to the instruments that we already have in Slovenian law in the Penal Code, makes it possible, in a slightly easier way, to confiscate this property, which has been acquired in such an illegal way. We know that the situation that Slovenia is in today is particularly important that once the judiciary has become more effective in recent times – we can all see that the efficiency of the judiciary is greater, which is very important – therefore, judicial proceedings are quicker to be concluded, they are also concluded by convictions, in those cases where the guilt is proven. It is important that the judiciary process quickly. So, the judiciary, for example, has already done part of its task. What is still ahead of us is that all those who are found to have committed crimes — and here in particular, we are looking at economic crime — are also deprived of that property. This is necessary in the interests of justice and is also necessary in order to compensate for the damage caused by such crimes, by which various individuals in the past have gained enormous wealth benefits. You know that the priority of this government has been from the beginning, and this is also provided for by a new coalition treaty, one of the priorities being the pursuit and effective sanctioning of economic crime. I hope, however, that this important amendment of this law will contribute to the effectiveness of the prosecution and sanctioning of economic crime. Let me briefly explain what these key changes are. As is clear from what I have said so far, changes are geared towards greater effectiveness in the implementation of the law. This means the following: firstly, better coordination of all those bodies implementing this law is the already mentioned State Prosecutor's Office, which runs these procedures, the police, the DURS and the Anti-Corruption Commission. Then, in order for the prosecution to be even more effective than before, the organisation is changing at organisational level, so a specific internal organisational unit is added within the framework of the specialised State Prosecutor's Office, which is supposed to be responsible for the seizure of assets of illegal origin and related procedures. Then a special institute which is linked to the process of determining who acquired this property and how it was acquired. This is a financial investigation group, which is only optional under the current law, so it is not compulsory, and is now mandatory after the proposed amendment. We also hope that this will increase efficiency. Then there is a whole series of other changes that I will not mention here – all of them in the material – which are all targeted – I repeat once again – for the first time, to be more effective in implementing the law by all those bodies responsible for implementing this law, then better cooperation between them and also more effective international cooperation in implementing this law. In fact, international cooperation is extremely important because we can think that most of this property is not in Slovenia, but elsewhere. Therefore, of course, I ask you to support the proposed changes and thus allow the authorities to fight effectively as they have done their business so far in confiscating the assets of illegal origin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Minister. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Mirk Brulc for the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u124	Thank you so much for saying that. The minister only had five minutes of time, and the contents were pretty good, and we're gonna have a little more time to do that. During the year-and-a-half implementation of the Law on the Seizure of Property of Illegal Origin, it was shown that it was necessary to cut into a law that brought some important news to the Slovenian legal order. In the introduction of the proposal, the Government notes that the new institution and the ongoing difficult and extensive investigation into the origin of assets cannot yet produce the expected results. It is obvious, however, that there is something going on under the law; it is an attempt to implement it, and the law enforcement authorities have also come to the obstacles and have also detected them. According to the Ministry's assurances, an expert discussion was also held. Following or prior to the introduction of the legislative procedure, comments were made by the Customs, Tax Administration, Anti-Money Laundering Office, the Information Officer, the District Court in Ljubljana, the State Attorney's Office, the State Attorney's Office in Maribor, the Special Prosecutor's Office and civil society groups on a proposal for a law published on the Ministry's website on 14 October 2013. The Ministry has taken the comments more into account where the comments were not taken into account, and has tried to explain at the Ministry why the individual comments were not taken into account. In the Group of Social Democrats, we assess that the proposed amendment to the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin is appropriate for further consideration and that the original law needs to be improved. There will certainly be further questions on which Members, Members and the public will expect further clarifications, as well as in the next debate of this meeting, as well as in the next legislative process. However, we also expect clarifications from the Minister or representative of the Ministry in the following discussions, which has not yet been defined by the proposed text. And what news does the bill under consideration bring us? The application of the provisions of Penal Code 1 relating to the confiscation of unlawfully acquired property benefits is explicitly laid down, subjective circumstances are abolished, this is credulity, and by a clearer definition we are facilitating the evidentiary burden of the prosecution. It is worth noting that the powers of the State Prosecutor's Office are expanding. A financial investigation team shall be formed, involving the State Prosecutor's Office and the police, DURS, customs, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Prevention of Money Laundering and others. A special internal organisational unit will be established in the Specialized State Prosecutor's Office, which, by law, represents the Republic of Slovenia as the applicant in or in relation to the seizure of property of illicit origin. The extension of the powers of the Public Prosecutor's Office for all proceedings relating to the procedure under the law in question is a matter for actions concerning the disputability and nullity of participation in an unfair enforcement procedure, so that the Prosecutors will also be faster in all related proceedings. In another marriage, we also discussed the abuse of land debt in the National Assembly. A provision is made that, after the initiation of the legal procedure, the procedure for payment of land debt cannot be initiated. With this, we, MEPs and Members, want to prevent the abuse of owners who set up land debt and try to prevent land letters from taking property of illegal origin. The novel interferes practically with all articles. The law in force has 58 articles, and we are in touch with the amendment in 38 articles, plus an article which otherwise provides for the entry into force of the law. Two new articles were added, namely Article 17a, which regulates the right to a declaration, and Article 44a, which regulates the period of storage of data from records. In the first case, the competent prosecutor shall invite the prosecutor to the State Prosecutor’s Office, which has opened a financial investigation. If the examiner responds, he shall be informed of the results of the investigation and shall make a record. In the event that the examiner does not respond to the invitation, it shall not be permitted to invite him again. However, as regards the retention period, this Article refers to the data of the property records subject to insurance or confiscation. The records shall be kept for six months following the power of the decision to establish a financial investigation, the decision to terminate temporary insurance or the temporary confiscation of assets of illegal origin and then the data shall be erased. Members and Members of the Social Democrats want the proposed solutions to bear fruit. As I said in the introduction, the proposed conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration will be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u125	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Mr Richard Braniselj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Minister, good-bye! The Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin practically paved the way. We are waiting for the results, and this novel, which I hope today, will be accepted, I think the podora is provided here, including by the National Gazette, will be supported by this novel. In this implementation of the law – if we want this law to produce the results we would like, and this is an effective confiscation of the assets of illicit origin – then we must be aware that the prosecution will need to be strengthened. We know that the Prosecutor's Office is wearing and will also bear the greatest emphasis and the greatest weight on the effectiveness of this instrument. As regards the very objective of the collection of assets of illegal origin, we must say that the extension for the stated objective is also last year the cancelled land debt, which also allows the confiscation of assets of illegal origin. This means that by abolishing the Earth Debt Institute, we will prevent, and we will prevent, abuse and the path of effective concealment of property. As far as land debt is concerned, in fact, there is still a lack of a minister's domestic duty, and this is the regulation of existing land debts, which are included in the Land Book, which prevent effective recovery, effective enforcement and challenge fictitious land debts. I think that they are regulating this issue at the Ministry and there will be a number of laws open that will procedurally regulate the possibility for creditors to challenge and pay off these fictitious land debts. Why am I talking about this? Because he's a big creditor in all these fictitious land debts, he's a state. Whether this is from unpaid taxes and contributions, or whether it is from direct State damage. We've got a big reserve here, and we're on the right track. I am talking about the fact that there is still some effort to be made and we are expected to make a big and important move forward in the performance phase. Seizure of assets of illegal origin. We also have in the Penal Code and the Law on Offences by-laws or by-law measures, which is the taking away of unlawful property benefits. No one who has done anything against the law and thus obtained some material gain must keep it. And here the courts in criminal proceedings and in criminal proceedings must strictly and consistently implement this provision, and this is that the unlawful asset benefit must never and never remain to the one who has acquired it. In the Tax Procedure Act, we have an instrument for detecting and taxing unexplained property. A very important instrument, which we have also legalised in this mandate last year, has been improved and we also expect here that the result will also be important for public finances. The Public Prosecutor's Office also has very important tasks at the stage of defending the interests of the State in compensation and other actions having financial implications. What I'm trying to say is that the key is in implementation, not in legislation, but in implementation. I think it is necessary to insist that all civil servants, from judges, inspectors, prosecutors, state lawyers, strictly carry out what they are paid for. To make an effort in this mission. They have jobs, they get salaries, and not only that, it is necessary to realize that the wages of all these our repressive authorities are also dependent on how the state treasury will be charged. And the Treasury can not only be charged on the basis of taxpayers’ payments, but also, in particular, on the basis of the fairness of those who have damaged this state treasury in any way. These damages should be strictly brought back to the Treasury. And the fundamental rule of Roman times: no one can be rich with anything. which he received illegally. I hope and I think that this government will be successful and we will be strict in this implementation, that this philosophy will return to the illegal property benefits in fact strictly and that a substantial part of the budget will also be derived from this title. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Pukšič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u128	Nice greetings, colleagues, colleagues, vice president, Mr. Minister with co-workers! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin will be supported by the Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Any contribution to improving the effectiveness of the asset collection system obtained in an illegal way is welcome. Accordingly, it is also necessary to establish or improve a system of control over the lawfully acquired property of an individual who exceeds his or her official income. And that's one of the big problems. We have also supported the law currently in force with the desire to be effective, and today it appears that it is weak or that some did not want to implement it, and some of them were able to take advantage of it. At that time, we had warned that it was wrong for the confiscation of property to be linked solely to the grounds for the suspicion of criminal service. The law should also apply to cases where the offence is not suspected, but to individuals with disproportionately large assets. So it's all the cases where the property has been acquired in suspicious ways and is owned by a person today, and no one asks how it came to this enormously large asset and whether it has paid taxes on it. We know a lot of such cases, i.e. with larger or smaller illicit assets. The applicant notes from the proposal to amend this law that, according to the information available, no procedure has been completed for the confiscation of assets of illegal origin. This, of course, is almost incomprehensible, given the fact that we have recapitalised banks of about €6 billion. At the end of 2012, a financial investigation was initiated in six cases. Where are the tycoon loans, bankers, directors of companies that went bankrupt, companies that didn't pay the contributors and so on? In fact, all of the things I have talked about, and also of the members of the supervisory councils, should not be taken away, but rather sealed off by the end of the proceedings. I'm afraid that didn't happen. And it is in this law that it is possible to think about it and to complement it. On the basis of these findings, it is obvious that the law needs to be radically amended, but the system is not functioning. When we adopted the current law, we once believed that something would finally move in this area. We believed that the competent authorities would step together and prove that where there is will, there is also a way. And that, unfortunately, was not the case. I still stand in the position that there is a way, so where there is a will, there is a way. And the point of all of this is that the law enforcement agencies cooperate from the start to the end, that they are expedient and fast, after five years, the traces are lost. In our view, one of the major problems is the unconstructive cooperation of law enforcement authorities. But that there are lobbying behind them, which is appropriate for them, is more than obvious. These lobbies were obviously stronger. Well, yeah, they had money, too, sorry, they got it. The new law does not aim so much at substantially increasing the powers of individual authorities or at changing the principles or systemic legislation, but rather at improving the coordination of all participating bodies. This is the right course, but the question remains whether or not it is sufficient. It follows from the proposal of the law that the tax administration, at a rate of 70% tax, will tax the difference between the officially acquired and used assets, which means that the data are and that they should only be used. The proposal also foresees an end to the so-called infidelity. In this way, it is not necessary for the State Prosecutor to prove that a third party knew or should have known that it had received assets of illegal origin as a condition for the confiscation of this property. And that's a good thing that's changing. And this is, of course, a matter of general debate. Not to get an answer to him today, but to consider the Ministry and those involved in drafting the amendment of the law. What will happen to the property that someone illegally acquired and then donated to someone or put a debt on it to hide his property? The law will also have to give an answer. I am glad that I have already been warned about this by my fellow Member. The new law will also ensure that land debt abuses are prevented. A provision has been added that, following the initiation of a fair procedure, the payment of land debt cannot be initiated. As I said at the outset, we expected more from the marriage. The law was either not implemented or the lobby had too much influence — those who had money and thus power, and some of them, of course, were able to take advantage of the law. It means that the marriage is to be abused by an untrustworthy land debt. The list is pretty long. Igor Bavčar for summer residence and house in Murglah, Edward Owen, former director of the Republic Housing Fund, for about 3 million with regard to the purchase of two million land in Vižmarje, Ivan Zidar, Dusan Črnigoj, Marko Jaklič, Ljubljana Pharmacy, Michael Karner, Robert Czasar, Romana Pajenk, Probank, Vojteh Volk, former director of Mipa, Zdenko Pavček, Zoran Thaler and so on. There's a lot of these. However, they say that these land debts listed are very different in real estate. They start there somewhere at 100,000 euros and end up at a few million. And one more thing. The difference between the entry of this land debt is in the west. According to some of the data we received, for example, the maturity of the land debt, for example, for Mr Zdenk Pavček, which is inscribed by the year, you will not believe, 2099. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we hope that this will help convince abuses by owners who, of course, create such a land debt and attempt to prevent the confiscation of property of illegal origin by means of a land letter. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Seizure of Property of Illegal Origin, as I said at the outset, as we did at the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u129	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! It is perfectly logical and just that no one can retain the assets that he has obtained in an illegal way or by illegal activity. Perhaps I can say with certainty that no one in this room objects to the need to step on the fingers of all those who have robbed or seized property in an illegal way. May I remind you that the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin was adopted at the end of 2011. At that time, 71 members of the then coalition voted in favour of the law after the re-decision. According to the information available to us, no procedure has been completed for the confiscation of assets of illegal origin. Of course, this fact is not alarming, as a financial investigation under the law on the confiscation of assets of illegal origin may take longer. Even after a year, a year and a half and so, depending on the case. It should be said that a financial investigation is currently under way in nine cases at the Special Prosecutor's Office and that the investigation is being conducted against 50 natural and 74 legal persons. Also, several claims for property confiscation have already been filed. According to the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, by adopting the law, we have taken the first step necessary to take away what someone has, but has not obtained it in a fair manner. All the following steps and the epilogue of the seizure of illegal property are no longer dependent on the legislator, but on the authorities responsible for carrying out the proceedings. Of course, in our parliamentary group, we expect that, or even so, both the police and prosecutors, and not least, the judges, on these just matters of identifying the illegality and disproportionateity of individual property, will do their job well and properly, and as a result, successfully. Today we have before us the first recast of this law, which has not actually started to apply until 30 May 2012. The proposal for amendments and additions shall be drawn up on the basis of the comments and proposals of all competent authorities. This is the police, the prosecutions, the courts, the tax administrations and others involved in these proceedings. Changes and additions are essential in view of the experience of these bodies so far in order to ensure greater feasibility and effectiveness of the law and better coordination of all participating bodies within the Republic of Slovenia and also at the international level. In order to make the law more operational, this amendment proposes a number of amendments which, according to the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, make sense, appropriate and logical in order to increase the possibility of achieving the purpose of the law. So far, only the possibility of setting up a financial investigation team has been foreseen in the law and it will be mandatory to establish it. It will be composed of representatives of the State Prosecutor's Office, the Police, the Tax Administration, the Customs Administration, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Prevention of Money Laundering, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, the State Defence Office, the Securities Market Agency, the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition or the Court of Auditors. Representatives of those bodies whose competences or powers are necessary for the successful conduct of all investigations will be proposed for the members of the financial investigation team. The weakness of the applicable law is also that the competent authorities are designated only as regards the stage of the financial investigation procedure, but it is not the designated authority to file actions for the confiscation of property. Thus, according to this proposal, the State Prosecutor's Office will be the one responsible for bringing actions and representing the Republic of Slovenia as a party to the proceedings for the confiscation of property of illegal origin. Clear definitions are also essential to the effectiveness of the law. The applicant therefore corrected the definition of the property of illegal origin and the owner of the property. If the property suspected of being of illicit origin has been transferred to a third party, the subjective condition of that person's trust has so far been applicable to the confiscation of such a person. This proposal shall be terminated and the property taken away from that person if the transfer has been free of charge or carried out for a payment that does not correspond to the actual value. However, if this person may have paid the actual value of this property, the property will not be taken away from him, but the payment of the equivalent in money or in other actual form will be the burden of the original holder of that property of illegal origin. With such a proposed arrangement not only to burden the prosecution with proof, but this solution is in itself more logical and even more just. Otherwise, it is also proposed to regulate tax procedures relating to property of illegal origin. After the initiation of a fair procedure for the confiscation of assets of illicit origin, the applicable regulation makes it impossible for any tax procedure to be carried out. However, from the point of view of tax law, it is more appropriate that after the initiation of a fair procedure for the confiscation of property of illegal origin on immovable property subject to an application, the procedure for the assessment of the real estate tax and the tax on gifts should not only be initiated. One of the key changes is the novelty in this procedure that the provisions of the Criminal Code concerning the confiscation of property of illicit origin and the temporary confiscation of property of illicit origin shall also apply mutatis mutandis to the confiscation of property benefits derived from or due to the crime. The latter means that assets which correspond to the value of assets of illicit origin may be temporarily secured or temporarily confiscated if they are not found. As we know, there are frequent cases of concealment or seizure to a third party. And the most typical common and insurmountable cases are when this property is located abroad. A payment of the cash will also be charged as a temporary insurance under the analogy of the Penal Code. However, new measures will also include the assets transferred to third parties if the assets have been transferred free of charge or only against a value that does not correspond to the real value. We wish and also hope that, through good legislation on the one hand, and effective implementation on the other hand, we will achieve results that will satisfy the time limits of justice. It is true that, in comparison with other countries, we are still far behind in this area, but with great will and hard work we can successfully make up for the delays. After examining the legal novelty in the DeSUS Group, we adopted the view that the proposal is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u131	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, he shall have the word mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u132	Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, hello! We can say that the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin, adopted in November 2011, and applied in May 2012, has not yet come to life. If we are reading statistics in explanation of this bill's proposal, 78 requests for investigation have been submitted in 2012, and I would stress two proposals for interim insurance alone. In 2012, no action was brought to confiscate assets of illegal origin. The Public Prosecutor's Office, which is responsible for initiating the procedure, refers to the lack of legislation and to the complexity of the investigation procedure. For this reason, the current government has prepared a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin to address these shortcomings. I have recently also reminded the President of the Government of the inefficiencies of this law and the amendments to this law are before us today, but unfortunately, Christian Democrats note that the proposed amendments and additions to this law by content are not such that they can make a significant contribution to speeding up the implementation of this law. We can say it's just cosmetic repairs. We would expect the state prosecutors in particular to propose new substantive solutions, as it is the state prosecutors who point out that the current regime is inadequate. It would therefore be right for them to become more involved and propose new substantive solutions, which they believe would contribute to a more successful work in this area. In doing so, I would like to point out that many other European countries are significantly more successful in the implementation of the confiscation of assets of illicit origin and that it would therefore make sense to follow them. Our neighbour, Italy, takes away more than €500 million from the mafia and other criminal associations every year. Even our former republic within the common country of Serbia takes away 100 million euros of such assets annually. If the government has already decided on legislative changes, we would first expect proposals to improve existing institutions. The number of interim insurance proposals submitted is absolutely too small. And if there are obstacles to making these proposals on the side of too strict legal bases, we would expect proposals in this direction in particular. We would also expect proposals to introduce one of the new institutions that could improve the effectiveness of this law. One option that would make sense to think about would certainly be the possibility of introducing a provisional decision on the confiscation of assets of illegal origin. This provisional decision would mean that the criminals would be deprived of this property immediately because the current regime is such that the various public authorities must first collect the documentation that some criminal has materially deviated from his lawfully declared income, and then the State Prosecutor against him initiates a procedure in which that criminal must prove that he had obtained this property illegally. In the meantime, a lot of things have happened. The property is copied, and it disappears in some way. In our view, one of the essential conditions for effective enforcement of the confiscation of assets of illegal origin is the taking of measures to prevent offenders from having access to property as soon as possible, as this often allows them to continue criminal activity. This property changes ownership very quickly, domicil, and therefore the longevity of the proceedings means the same inefficiency of this law. This is why, in particular, assets arising from offences of trafficking in illicit drugs, corruption, money laundering and economic crime. We expect Christian Democrats to be significantly more involved in the implementation of the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin as soon as possible. However, several steps have been taken in the area of economic crime prosecution in recent years, but the area of confiscation of assets of illicit origin requires additional attention from the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office and more systematic and dedicated work in this area. We are aware, however, that this also means additional human resources and material resources to be provided to the Special Prosecutor's Office in order to be able to carry out these tasks effectively and not least by increasing the amount of this seized property that could reach millions, in some way also providing additional money for the work of the Special Prosecutor's Office. If I conclude, I can say that the New Slovenia Group of Members is in favour of a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin, but we must acknowledge that this is a small step forward towards improving the legislation. If we have to decide whether to support a small step forward or nothing, it is logical, of course, that we will decide to support a small step forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u133	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Positive Slovenia has the floor of Mr Aljoša Jerič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. Respected and respected! No person shall benefit from unlawful conduct. This is the main purpose and purpose of the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin, which was adopted at the end of 2011 and applied at the end of May 2012. The law also lays down the conditions, procedure and competent authorities for the financial investigation, providing for temporary insurance, temporary confiscation, storage, management and confiscation of assets of illicit origin. Its main purpose or final result is the financial investigation, the seizure of any property the owner cannot prove to have acquired in a legitimate manner. In the case of a property confiscation procedure under this law, therefore, it is not a criminal procedure, but a civil consequence of the fact that an individual acquired property through an illegal act. It is not sufficient for an individual, in the context of a criminal procedure, to take away the property he has acquired through this crime, but it is imperative that such persons be deprived of all the illegal property he has at his disposal, even if he has transferred it to family members or other persons in the absence of confiscation. This is the only way to ensure that such assets are not reused for other crimes. It is also intended to prevent the spread or further development of organised crime. We all know that organised crime today poses a great threat both in the territory of Slovenia and globally. Since it is an extremely organised group and extremely thoughtful way of working, the fight against it is also extremely hard and difficult. Since such groups need funds to be spent for such a completed operation, it is therefore essential to prevent them from continuing their activities by confiscating any illegal assets, whether money, property or movable property. However, a significant difference in criminal proceedings is also in the reverse burden of proof, since in the procedure under the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin, the burden of proof is on the suspect. Against whom is the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin against which to carry out a financial investigation and which checks the origin of the property? Against those with villas, yachts, luxury cars, full bank accounts abroad, and at home they have registered extremely low incomes. And among such cases, it is possible to find both drug dealers, pimps and businessmen. It is clear to many that he is particularly populist, that he does not have the right content, and that his implementation in practice is poor, so that he has no significant results. In Positive Slovenia, we cannot agree with this because it seems inappropriate to talk about the inefficiency of institutions that have just begun to live in practice. This is a new law, which only applies for a year and a half, and statistics show that 78 financial investigations have been made since the beginning of 2012 and that in July 2013 the first action has also been brought against the competent District Court in Ljubljana, on the basis of which civil proceedings for the confiscation of assets of illegal origin have been initiated. And now that these procedures have come to an end, it is time to address all the shortcomings that have emerged through the implementation of the law alone. The result of these collected shortcomings, which have been pointed out by all the participating authorities, each of their respective competences, is the amendment to the law that we are considering today. The amendments are thus without prejudice to the system regime or the substance of the law, but only to the completion of a valid concept of the law on the basis of the comments made by the competent authorities implementing the law and dealing in practice with individual shortcomings of the law. The fight against economic crime and corruption is a priority of the government of Alenka Bratušek and several steps in this direction have already been taken. The Banking Act and the Act on the measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks have already been amended, and the Tax Procedure Act has also been amended, particularly in the work relating to the so-called tax gap. The new Law on Access to Public Information will be discussed by the National Assembly next week and a new Law on Criminal Procedure is being prepared and some concrete proposals have already been proposed by both the police and the Anti-Corruption Commission. Therefore, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin is the right path, which at the same time leads us, citizens and citizens of Slovenia to the right direction of restoring confidence in the rule of law. We therefore support the bill in Positive Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u135	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u136	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State! Today, when a family has apparently fallen into the water about an unknown day, an unknown place, an unknown communication method and an unknown reward, it is right that we also pay much attention to the confiscation of the assets of illegal origin, especially in the hope that it is not just another unknown motive for this government to speak a lot of things because of its unknown cause in its practice, but it works the opposite, in short, does not work. In the SDS, we hope that the Ministry will take this law seriously. Unfortunately, there is only one matter that has led us to do so, and this is that it is a law prepared by the same minister, who has been proposed by Members in that coalition in 2012 as a result of the analysis and improvement of the law. With everything else in the SDS, we have the feeling that it is just another pyar of this government, which is changing its priorities daily. Apparently, today's priority is to confiscate assets of illegal origin. The question is, what happens tomorrow? The fact is that people like this topic, that it's close to them, because because of the media influences, all the tycoons are stealing, and everything has to be closed. But as always the devil is in detail, especially when there is a theory or written word, even though in law and practice works in its own way many times, as in this law the main actors and carriers remain the same. The changes go in the right direction at first sight. Despite the fact that the current coalition contract of this government is still very expensive in this part, as it is only written down, I quote that "we will simplify the regime for the seizure of illegally acquired property in order to make the procedures more effective". The previous coalition treaty under the government of Janez Janša was much more tangible and substantive in this area. Now, allow some emphasis and perhaps some of our remarks, suggestions, criticism, as well as praise. With regard to activities since the beginning of the implementation of the law. In the last 18 months, progress has been evident. The foundations for action have sufficient legal support and a basis. Certain authorities are more or less active and more or less cooperative. We therefore believe that it is right to pay even more attention to the cooperation and increased activities of the authorities in the proposal for a new law. We support this in the SDS, but at the same time we warn again, one is the theory, the other is the practice, because the numbers say their own, and the numbers are so far quite devastating. We support the mandatory establishment of a financial investigation team, where representatives of other bodies, the Police, Dursa, the Customs Administration, the State Defence Office, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Prevention of Money Laundering and so on, are also involved under the leadership of the competent state prosecutor, who is supposed to be the leader of this financial investigation group. In short, it's progress. On the other hand, we are concerned that the reason for the amendment of the law is the work of all the bodies involved so far, since the text of the bill shows that there were only two serious meetings on this subject, where opinions were exchanged. A large majority of the comments, proposals and criticisms of individual entities are unfortunately not taken into account, as can be seen from the material itself. The answer of the lawmaker is that it is not a matter of marriage, that this cannot be done or that it is not possible. I've heard it so many times. That's too bad. In the SDS, we hope that in time for the adoption of the law there will be a proactive role for all and a broad consensus on the proposed changes. Perhaps some article has, unfortunately, remained closed and will not be in a position to change it. That's too bad. The fact is that no proceedings have yet been completed for the confiscation of property of illegal origin, which is all evidence of Slovenian speed and the work of the prosecution and the judiciary. That's too bad. In our view, superficial analysis can be a poor prospect for a more effective law, and this is the greatest damage to this law. In the SDS, we support the abolition of subjective circumstances, that the person knew or should know that the property of illegal origin has been transferred to him as a condition for the confiscation of this property. The law proposes a different regulation of tax procedures relating to the property of illegal origin. In our view, it is a rather complex provision which will need special and additional attention, as we are also talking here about the area of finance, as well as matters such as land debt, which has now been over-exploited and consciously exploited. That's what you need to call a stop. In the SDS we support some basic ideas, such as a clearer definition of the assets of illegal origin and the notion of owners and the regulation of records. More specifically. It seems very important to us in Article 22 of the Law, since if the property of illegal origin cannot be confiscated, for example, because the latter was hidden, the judgment takes away property corresponding to the value of the property of illegal origin or is imposed on the owner or the other recipient of the property of illegal origin to pay a cash amount corresponding to that value. That's commendable. Let me get this straight. In the SDS, we will forensically review the entire law and certainly prepare the amendments. Our continued vote depends on our support for the amendments that we will table and prepare. However, if the law is only applied for propaganda effects, respectable, tell us and the entire Slovenian public that we will not try to prepare the amendments and the public will be disappointed again, but ultimately disappointed. Minister, Secretary of State, once again you have the support of the SDS in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u137	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and we are moving on to the debate of Members and Members. The first to debate is the reported mag. Katarina Hotchevar. Prepare Mr Franz Pukšič, followed by Mr Matthew Tonin. Here you go, mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State with a colleague, colleague and colleague, welcome! Indeed, the law we are considering today did not live in practice, as was the expectations of Members back then when it was tabled or voted in 2011. It only started in May 2012, and this is also a situation that we need to take into account. It seems fair to me that Minister Plitcanic reacted to this situation with this novel and I support any addition, any change in this law in the direction it will serve with solutions to give this law a stronger weapon against those who do not work in accordance with the rules. My predecessors have already spoken about numbers, and the result of this law has been really more clavicle, so I hope that this amendment will also go down in the legislative process to the extent that it will give the oxygen needed to all the competent institutions involved in this, so that in a year or two we can talk about more promising numbers. I would like to point out, myself, those changes in the novel, which I believe in the first place will be the necessary oxygen, namely, the establishment of a special internal organisational unit within the framework of the Special Prosecutor's Office, which will represent the Republic of Slovenia in the civil part of the property collection procedure. The mandatory formation of the so-called Financial Investigation Group, I also stress, which has not been mandatory so far. The introduction of a financial investigation may also be proposed by the Anti-Corruption Commission. I think it is also appropriate that the so-called Institute of Credulity be abolished as a condition for the confiscation of this property, since in practice all persons have claimed to be gullible. I would ask the Secretary of State how they do not interfere with the provisions on deadlines. The period during which a financial investigation may be initiated shall be up to a maximum of 5 years before the year in which the offence was committed. I wonder if practice has shown that this period is appropriate or whether it makes sense to extend it. I am confident that in this process, the Ministry and our Minister Plitcanic will take into account and listen to the proposals of the opposition, NGOs or other interested parties who are sincerely trying or fighting to finally get a law that will allow more effectively the confiscation of assets of illegal origin. If we call this law ZOPNI in short, I hope that we will reach the end of a novel that we will be able to tell in practice, not ZOPORN. Disgusting for all those who have not earned their wealth in a fair way. With this hope or with this faith, I will support the first examination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u139	Thank you very much. I don't see Mr. Pukšič in the hall, so I give the floor to Master Matthew Tonin. Let's get Mrs. Ljubica Jelusic ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u140	Times are kind of awkward and difficult and people feel terribly bad if they feel that society as such is unfairly organized, that there are people living between us who can "screw" all the time, and nothing happens. If there are people living between us who can break the law all the time, and nothing happens to them. If some do criminal activities, they live on a big leg, and on the other hand, you have people who spend a month at a minimum wage. These are stories that certainly weigh down the nation, which create a sense of discontent and injustice in the nation. Most likely, each of us knows the cases where people drive in extremely expensive cars worth more than 100,000 euros when they have apartments and villas and are officially unemployed. A simple view through just one eye gives us to know that something is not caved in here and that these matters are not proportionate to their income. How and in what way did such property come about? Most of the time, it's black or criminal. And the state has the right to confiscate such assets, because we are all obliged to play by the rules of the game which this house in some way prescribes. Where I see the biggest problem of this law on the seizure of illegally acquired property emerging, it is at the very beginning how and how to initiate proceedings against an individual. And we should make this start easier. Why am I saying this? Since the current way is roughly in such a way that different national authorities and other institutions need to identify some inconsistencies. And when this has been established, then only the State Prosecutor's Office will begin proceedings against this non-challenge, which must then prove for itself that it has come to this property in a legal way. It is this very beginning that it is extremely difficult for state institutions to conclude that this mismatch actually exists and to initiate the procedure. If I'm thinking very domestically and I don't mind, I think that this procedure should be facilitated and simplified to the extent that the court could invite an individual to explain his assets on the basis of, say, oral statements. That would be very simplistic. Many will challenge me, yes, but since you know the Slovenians, then they will start suing each other and complaining to each other that this, they, the other, have illegally acquired property. But my theory is that if someone has a clear conscience and has come to the property in a legal way, then he simply has nothing to fear, there is no fear. Even if the neighbor, I don't know which opponent, five or six times, the case is extremely clean and simple because he will always be able to prove that he has come to his property in a legal way. You know, a similar process has recently been initiated against one of the presidents of Slovenian political parties, there has been a lot of dissatisfaction, but I do not see any problem here, because there is a unique opportunity for this president to explain in the process how he came to his property. And the same would apply to all other citizens. So if you're clean, if you don't have a bad conscience, then you don't have to be afraid of this kind of procedure. I am sure that there will be a great deal of resistance against such my thinking, especially since I have mentioned that excessive facilitation of the initial procedure could also lead to mutual accusation and speculation, but if we do not facilitate this initial procedure, that is to say that the process of determining whether the property has been made lawfully against someone, then I doubt that any result of this law will be seen very quickly and very soon, because it will stop all together again at the beginning. The statistics of the current law are very eloquent. Practically no assets have been taken since the current law, even though you know that in 2011, when this law was passed, there was a huge pump, a lot of talking about how it would cleanse Slovenia, nothing has happened. Perhaps we are finding hot water too often and it might be much better to look around the countries around us to ask ourselves what is doing the Italian system effectively so that Italy can collect around EUR 500 million annually. To ask what is so effective in Serbia that Serbia can collect 100 million of this property. I really wouldn't detect hot water. If necessary, pay the Minister of Justice an airline ticket to fly to Rome or Belgrade and consult with the competent authorities, what institutions, what solutions they use to make this matter so effective. Above all, I want to look for ways and opportunities to make this law more effective, not to look for the reasons why something cannot be done, why something is not good. As there is a general debate today, I have also allowed myself to think in general about how this initial process could be simplified in the first place, and I am sure it still needs to be completed, but I am sure that everything will cost or fall at the beginning. If we do not simplify and facilitate this initial procedure, then what great results are not expected from this law? That is why I hope, and I wish, because today is the first time that the Ministry will try to upgrade this part of the law, to improve it, and that a better law in this area will come in the second reading. I will, of course, support today's bill in this regard, that the debate continues, because these topics must certainly be discussed and discussed as much as possible. The more we talk about these things, the more people will be sensitive to such things. You know, sometimes, I think that a few years ago, 10 years ago there were one or two reports of corruption, in the last period when we talk about these things a lot, I think there are thousands of them a year. We must all contribute to making society sensitive to such issues.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Dr Ljubica Jelusič has the word, which is followed by Marjana Kotnik Poropat and then Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u142	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Nice hello to you all! If people were to ask what laws are most needed in our society at the moment, then in one of these duly prepared studies, we would certainly come up with the right answer that we are dealing with today, namely how to make the law on the confiscation of assets of illicit origin operational, how to make or supplement this law in order to make it truly operational. Although some believe that it is an attempt to please people when this law is being supplemented, I think, at least on the basis of what is being done from the offices and from the electoral meetings, I find that there is a genuine, real need for people to give this law something away, and at the same time there is some disappointment that, after almost two years of the first marriage, we have not been able to reach some concrete conclusions or at least some completed process. However, this law shows our general weakness, and I would say that whenever we try to regulate an area for the first time, we are not successful enough, as we could say for this law as well as for the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. This is a typical second law, which also does not produce proper results from itself, since it was also written for the first time and not well thought out. It is not necessary that these laws of ours, when they were written for the first time, are not sufficiently thought out. The problem is also that we have a certain legal system that shows the effects of different legal arrangements from elsewhere, and in this set of different rules we need to find some room for regulation in our original way, so I think it is true, and here I agree with the predecessor, mag. Tones to see how other countries have regulated legislation relating to the property of illegal origin. The problem is that purely foreign arrangements cannot be tolerated because our legal system has also become more original after 20 years or even more and requires solutions that come from it. I would also draw attention to one expectation of people, namely that this expectation is linked to whether the people who have accumulated assets of illicit origin in the past are already condemned as to whether this sanction is appropriate or acceptable for the offence that has occurred. We often hear warnings that the so-called tycoons and those who are already in prison for unlawful acts will be deprived of their property and of their country's assets, in fact after a few years of coming out of prison, of their punishment – and also of this value from the legal culture, that someone who stays in prison will be punished enough not to have to be further sanctioned by any other measures. They say he will serve a sentence that is relatively short, and then he will continue to sit in peace on a pile of property that he acquired illegally. Workers, for example, who have been cheated in these actions or in their actions, will still live poorly on, in poverty and in packages of Karitas or the Red Cross. Common sense dictates the introduction of a legal norm, an operational legal norm that would actually deprive the property of illegal origin. I think that the changes and additions to the law are very extensive and that they are going in a direction where more operationality of this law could be expected. That is why I also support the law in this first reading and I think it is suitable for further consideration. I think that it is very important that part of it concerns the international exchange of information and cooperation in the detection and seizure of assets of illicit origin. The issue of tax havens is also one that we will probably have to define even more precisely in the following cases and see how this illegal property can also be recovered from tax havens. However, I think it would be good to pay attention to the comments that the Ministry has already made, but perhaps even more precise consideration should be given to the comments that have come from the District Court in Ljubljana, which is mainly responsible for such trials and by the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office. I note this because they are essentially key contractors of this law and sometimes we are asked whether it is not possible because of the under-involvement or a sense of abandonment of these special bodies that are responsible for the implementation of certain laws, then even in the operationalization of the law, there is a lack of momentum or a lack of energy in the realization of what the legislators expected and, of course, the government when it has drawn up a law. I think we should pay attention to their comments at this point. If the Attorney General says that it takes more time to conduct certain procedures, it is good to pay attention, but, of course, also with due respect for these institutions, it will be very important to expect that in an area that is important for our country, for our citizens, and also for the regulation of the legal culture and the fight against corruption in this country, we will give some results in this area so that we will not make the law complementary again and then find again in two years that the processes have not yet come to an end. I support the law, and I hope that in the future we will prove that it is operational. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u144	Since we have very little time, I will shorten my debate. The novelty is prepared with the aim of ensuring greater efficiency in the area of confiscation of assets of illicit origin. I will only draw attention to one major change, which is a change in the area of land debt. After the amendment, after the initiation of a fair procedure, the procedure for the payment of land debt cannot be initiated, which is very important, thus preventing or preventing those wishing to take advantage of this land debt from doing so quickly. The other changes also represent a major change in this area, and I am pleased that this change has taken place in such a short time, and I will support this change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek. He's being followed by Master Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor! After three years of adoption of the first law on the confiscation of property of illegal origin, we have before us relatively extensive, as has already been said, amendments to this law. In the meantime, the prosecutions, the judiciary, have justified and called for no proceedings to lead to their end, to the inoperability of the law. For this basic law was then, I think, Mrs Zalokareva from the party Zares. and was highly premeditated. The party from the then left coalition put him in the process. He received a large majority, of course we were all in favour, but he was forever aware that he was a pre-election, probably an unfair matter, relatively poorly prepared, and also did not save the party. The good circumstances of this change are that we are not at the moment, at least at the moment, no one is aware that we would be before the elections. Of course, when such laws are prepared by the left hand, which is literally linked to the largest proportion of the bank robbery, and so on, we must be careful in overly optimistic that the law will finally begin to bear fruit. But it's about time. There's a lot of time left. I don't just condemn the political left, in the prosecution and in the justice of the will there was no such thing. Two years ago, after a year and a half of the Attorney-General's annual report, we asked intensely why the Prosecutor's Office, why justice does not apply this law. We also asked him whether the prosecution plan would include the prosecution of economic financial crime under this law. The Attorney General replied, "We will decide for ourselves what we will pursue." As a result, of course, the change itself brings good promises. I'll support the marriage, only I'd be happy if the ministry that drafted the law would tell you who the writers are. Because then I could tell you in advance whether the law will work or whether, if traditional preparers have been used, there are already holes in the law that will work, because in this case the law can be a systematic possibility of delaying, depreciating this economic and financial crime, laundering money and so on. Look, there's no way I'm taking the difficulty of not being able to pursue a billion, 6 billion, or maybe 12 billion bank holes under the current law. The birds on the roof are chirping, who and where the most abundant was stolen. This institute, which we have talked about a lot before the adoption of this law, the reverse burden of proof, I do not know now, but it is now working explicitly at this institute, or there are procedural possibilities of delaying data, because matter is for us parliamentarians, who every day we have a bunch of materials and we cannot actually go into such material, and also rarely, of which they have legal knowledge, is a difficult matter. And we can also be trusted by the ministry, although I trust the minister that he has a good purpose, I must say that I trust him, that he has confidence, but I just don't know what they did to him on the lower floors, if I say metaphorically, prepared and shoved into his hands to come to the National Assembly. We should, in my opinion, not have this option here in the National Assembly, have the opportunity to hire a neutral expert in the House of Experts to draw up an opinion on this matter. Of course, it would take a while and a lot of time. I am aware that these options are unlikely at present, and the question is whether the coalition would be interested in taking this opportunity. For in all laws and in all the heritage of the past, from that bloody regime to this criminal, economic and financial regime, I observe that the coalition or at least its most influential parts have not yet liberated this heritage. That, as I said, some of the upper floors, including the outer upper floors, are incestously linked to this bad heritage and that many times we get into a house a law that does not work in practice, which is bad. I can't accept the excuse of the judiciary and the prosecution that it was the main reason they didn't bring one case to a close. Even under the present law, if it were so willful, we could do a lot of things. However, time was bought for those who performed and performed all of these works in banks. And it buys a lot of time, we see that taxpayers, the state, the government, because the government itself says it can't get to the culprits, to the recipients and providers of these loans that robbed the country. And it's just buying time, ladies and gentlemen, to try now through the Law on Access to Information of a Public Interest to do so. There's going to be a whole bunch of legal obstacles, so there's not gonna be any of this again. So let's not be naive. I think that citizens see time buying in many areas, that there is no political will in the coalition, it is simply not. The positive circumstance is that I believe in the minister's sincere wish. Whose product is this again, I stress, but the big question is whether barriers and pollen are not already installed in the law itself, that it will again be inoperable and that money laundering, money laundering, players of the biggest corruption affairs will survive safely and in the next century or this century will rule Slovenia. Now, many publicly say that it is expected that as many companies as possible will fail, that those who have the money they have taken will buy it back for as low a price as possible and that people will be literally feudal owners and people will be pushed down in this country. I think that justice, legislation must prevent these options. I'm asking the Secretary of State if this law is the closest way to preventing it from being extended by the basic law. Is this law operational or is it going to show up again a hundred things that will prevent justice and the prosecution from taking action? Is this financial investigation so operational that the authorities and the ministries will not just pass the ball and we will not go forward? These answers are extremely important. I hope that those people who had it in their heads were involved in the drafting of the law, and that was their priority. I also stress that, since not one case under this law has been completed, if the main problem is the text of the previous law, you could prepare a completely new law, I don't know, close to the Italian or Serbian model, so as not to buy hot water. Now I'm asking the question why you didn't do it. If there are still excuses that marriage is still not good, then we have done nothing. Then we know that there is a coalition at work, not only here in Parliament, not only in the government, but a coalition of interests after the laundering of all the works, all the crimes, the depreciation of all the crimes committed and about which every practical citizen sees what happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin, followed by Mr Zvonko Černač and Mrs Ludmila Novak. Here you go, mag. Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Madam President. Of course, it can't be against this law. Why would a man be against it? If anyone has obtained anything unlawfully, he should also be legally deprived of it. I think the question is a little more complex. See, in 2011, the law was passed and several debaters said that nothing had actually happened since the law was adopted, that no assets had been taken under this law. We are now in 2014. What does that mean? That we probably had a marriage with a fig in our pocket, that we didn't even have a purpose. Why would this marriage work now? What's changed now? I don't think anything's important. If we look at who the parliamentarians who adopted this law were, there are many of these parliamentarians who were sitting in Parliament in 2011, even now. And they passed the law. Where does it matter that we do not respect adopted laws? We must be in a lot of trouble. I will give an example because we, as Parliament, are adopting laws, and we do not respect them, except to ensure that governments and ministries implement them. Now I'm going to read an example of disrespect for my own laws. At the 32nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 24 May 2013, the Decree declaring the constitutional law amending Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia was adopted. This constitutional law states: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall adopt the law referred to in the third paragraph of amended Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia within six months of the entry into force of this constitutional law." In view of the above, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia should adopt the law by 24 November 2013 at the latest. And because he did not do so within a period of time, he violates, as well as the Government, the commitments made and the highest legal act in the country. I just happened to figure that out because I've been looking into some things. Now you try to teach me. If the National Assembly does not implement this law, which it itself has adopted, who will carry out anything else? Ladies and gentlemen, we have violated and violated the highest constitutional act – constitutional law. Who else would believe us? If we go to another specific case. We've dealt with the lottery area before. In order to prevent corruption, the Commission explicitly points out by letter that not all elements of corrupt risk are eliminated in the draft law. But we're just moving on with the procedure. That means nothing is going to happen, it's just a farce that we're going to prosecute some people because at the system level we're not up to it. You know what Mr. Stephnik said to me earlier? Our fellow Member, a minister who must go for much smaller offenses than others. So do we. Look what he said to me: "Energy law is a farce and a great weight of citizens. The energy law incorporates elements of corruption to make people rich. With energy law, we create so-called fellow capitalists..."
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u149	Master Vogrin, I suggest you focus on the point of discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u150	Madam President, I have already warned in advance that she will probably feel that I am not talking about the subject, but it is just a feeling. I am talking about the essential things that concern the work of this national assembly and also this law that we are adopting. We should put things at systemic level to change. Then we'll slowly climb out of the crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u152	I can't, well, not to comment first, a nice hello to everyone. He holds to what colleague Vogrin says, but colleague Stepišnik was still part of the government's government team at the time the energy law was confirmed. And it would be interesting to see if he confirmed it or voted against it. In that part, it holds what colleague Vogrin used to say about the so-called energy card, where solutions are needlessly written so that it will be ten times more expensive than it should be. Today we are talking about a law that some believe is essential in helping Slovenia become at least as normal a country in this area as it is said that Serbia, which is not yet in the European Union, is able to separate grains from weeds on one side and can close those that are large tusks, is simplified. Slovenia doesn't know that. We could briefly conclude from these discussions that this is another novelty that we all support, because it cannot do any harm, but what is essential to the most effective prosecution of the worst banking and economic crime will not help. If the purpose were different, there would already be few cases on the basis of the law in force adopted in 2011, which can be counted at the annual level on the fingers of both hands, or even on the fingers of one hand, which is being processed under this law. It is also important in the situation we are in, where we are talking about damage and the evidential assets of a million-year-old origin, whose origins cannot be explained, to focus the system on the worst crime. We can't be at this point where we are now, in this deep abyss where we have bank-economy tycoons with dozens of millions of unjustifiable assets that we haven't earned in a fair way, dealing with small things. We had a former President of the European Court of Auditors, Mr Antončič, in this National Assembly, years ago, in the previous term, who asked how they chose cases, what they were dealing with and what they were not, given that we believed they had a whole range of options, said: "This is a very simple matter. Among the cases that we receive, which we randomly choose, we will look at the dimension of the problem in an individual case, and if we come to the number of EUR 500 000, do you think that we are crazy to deal with this when we know that just a revision would cost a million euros. But of course, we take those where 50, 100 million euros goes into our hands and we examine them." If we had cleared up all those big cases in our country where there are more than 100,000 euros, millions of euros, 10, 100 million euros, then we could write laws that would also deal with a little bit of a problem, and above all, we can carry out procedures in these cases. Otherwise, this government, in particular the justice minister who is currently in charge of this, is also discrediting itself in this way as is now taking place. And these words and talking about how this government has as one of the priorities set out in the coalition agreement, the new, the old, in both probably, the persecution of economic crime, probably also banking, I hope that at least this delivery is a farce. Because something else is going on in the O.R. The most qualified prosecutors who are supposed to sit on the Special Prosecutor's Office are dealing with minor cases. Some of them, of course. Of course, then they cannot process the worst forms and prosecute the worst forms of crime. But the indictment that was filed against me by anonymous applicants as the former minister because I stopped the call for the renovation of one toll station, because the bids were between 550 and 850 thousand euros, and I assessed that they were all too high, and because I did it, I was hurting my own ministry, and then it happened for a substantially smaller amount, or this lawsuit was a matter for the Special Prosecutor's Office to deal with, I'm asking you. Which third-rate prosecutor he would have gotten in hand on the basis of the documents, should know that this is a total bluff. Should the Special Prosecutor's Office deal with the application, which was also filed during my term by one of the DRI Directors' or two cities, because the post of Director-General and Managing Director has been awarded? One application was filed on the same day in the municipalities, in the Republic of Italy, the second application was made on the same day in Belgrade. And since you've been traveling for a few days, because of this time gap, the control board at one point didn't do everything and didn't invite this lady to talk, I think it was Elena Talover from Ukraine. And there was an obvious suspicion of corruption here. And of course an anonymous or even an unsigned application against me and everyone else. I personally, as the then competent minister, had nothing to do with this procedure because the supervisory board of this company was responsible. But what I'm saying is, by the way, this process is still not finished, it's still going on, and a year and a half of this anonymous appeal is already being processed. These cases concern our prosecution and justice in all publicly exposed banking-economic crime cases. And now, by this law, with this novelty in your opinion, in the opinion of some, most of us, we will solve these problems. We will not, ladies and gentlemen, until you have resolved the problem here and until you have made this mental leap and once you have seriously begun to persecute those who need to be persecuted, but not to abuse legislation for political persecution. Until that happens, there will still be champagne openings in this country for those who, within a company that came to a bad bank, paid for 21 million euros in dividends at the end of last year, and the previous bank that they co-ownered put the taxpayers' shoulders, Factor Bank, and all the loans they leased, as well. Why is it not possible to look at their assets, and why has no procedure been initiated against them by the Special Prosecutor’s Office, but it is millions, why has this not happened? Why, though, did proceedings against the champion of the largest opposition party for the alleged 200,000 fictitious differences in property and against a dead individual, but there are not enough living, banking and economic tycoons known to have robbed this country and all of us, and they are not being persecuted? Why are you doing this? The ever-increasing answer to this question, and it is increasingly convincing that this is done because the government has no serious purpose to clear up these matters. It has no serious intention of being effective in pursuing these worst crimes. If this was a serious aim, then the first in line, the Minister in charge of justice and the Minister in charge of internal affairs, both came from the Civil Service List, would give appropriate guidance, first to the government, to adopt an appropriate action plan and measures, then to all others, the judiciary, the prosecution, to set reasonable and reasonable priorities. And when all these great gentlemen are processed and concluded, then they can probably start to do what they once said to be a politician with a burning thief. Until then, this is a fraud to the public and an insurmountable purpose of doing these jobs. And unfortunately, this novel is only one in a series of these pianist moves that should show how serious the purpose of this government is and how effective our justice is, most of all, only a matter of an appropriate pianist approach. Minister, President of the Government, the President of the Supreme Court signed a commitment six months ago on the deadlines to be observed. Is this covenant being fulfilled today? No, I don't. In the most infamous case, we can find out that this commitment is being breached. The Supreme Court should have already ruled in accordance with this commitment in the proceedings against the President of the largest opposition party convicted in the first instance. It's not. Today, the Finnish court in this trial, in the Patria trial, has released those accused of corruption, i.e. those who are supposed to promise gifts. In Slovenia, however, he was in the first stage, and with him two others of course, convicted champion of the largest opposition party, because he was supposed to receive from those who were forgiven, of whom those who were forgiven, an unknown day in an unknown place in an undisclosed communication way, a promise of a gift, not for themselves, but for a third party, probably. So if the priorities of the government of Alenka Bratusek were to be the pursuit of real economic and banking crime, then today there should be 100 or 200, not 5 or 10, and by now assets should be frozen to all those who have already been publicly exposed and who cannot and hope to explain the origin of this property. Why not? This is due to the large amount of credit that taxpayers will pay back for them. That is to say, those whose companies have failed and remained on the road will now have to repay these gentlemen's loans. One of these, we read in one of the journals, envisioned a reconstruction of 37 million euros worth of villas in Switzerland days ago. Is this gentleman, I ask you, in which of these procedures? Has anything been set against him? Has a provisional order been issued to temporarily freeze the property? Until you do so, it is better not to irritate the public with such or other novels, which are nothing but government pierres to justify what this government does not want to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor. Mr Mirko Brulc, then Mr Borut Ambrožič, is preparing for it. Here you go, Mrs. Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u154	Thank you for your word. In New Slovenia too, we believe that we should make a new law, where the initial phase should be quite different, as it is now, because it takes a long time before the procedure takes place, and in the meantime the owners of this illegally acquired property can do a lot of things about this property. So the initial phase should be fast, maybe in this direction, that where it's more than obvious that something is wrong with this property, it should be taken away and then the owner should prove where he got it from. If he's entitled to it, if he's produced it, he'll probably get it back. I am not talking about those small sums that every citizen should shake, how he will prove how he built his house. But we do have a lot of cases where it's already very clear that there's something wrong with this property. Now we have here a new law, a law that has proved to be a toothless tiger. Maybe we'll make some dental implants now, and it'll bite easier, and there'll be some effect. Above all, I think that citizens expect us to make more order in this country. And every time we get new taxes, I hear first, "take those who stole the country." And this law is supposed to make it possible, even though we have doubts and doubts that this is really going to happen. Banks are uprooted and many businesses are destroyed, people are out of jobs, and we are rightly expected to do so. And what we Members can do and what is our duty is certainly to do everything possible to improve this law, even though we have doubts and we think we should be new. Above all, I will ask the experts who are working in this area what is lacking in this law so that they cannot work faster, what proposals they have. I would also like to ask the representatives of the Government here whether all the professions really agree on whether their comments are sufficiently taken into account. If we do everything that the law is good, that they can work, then they have no more excuses, why they cannot bring any proceedings to an end and why they are not more effective. Here we must all Members be in coalition, in coalition for the best possible law, which will be feasible, which will be effective and which will actually produce results. Given what happened to us in Slovenia, what billions of holes we cover, how high we are in terms of the level of corruption, I think that citizens are more than rightly expecting us, otherwise they will continue to yell at us that we are all thieves, and I think it is justified if we do not do our tasks thoroughly. We must therefore conclude a coalition of Members, of all Members, in order to make every effort to ensure that there is no excuse in the judiciary, why there is nothing to be done. We hear this too often and then it looks like we are the ones who prevent laws from being more effective.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Ms Tina Brecelj, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, made a statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u156	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, everybody! I have some answers prepared, and I will start in reverse, and I will reply to Mrs Novak first. The new law was created in cooperation with the prosecution and the judiciary. In particular, we have sat together and prepared solutions, so firmly believing that solutions such as now will significantly contribute to efficiency and remove any obstacles or inconsistencies that have now prevented this greater efficiency. When the novel was born, the profession specifically told us where the obstacles were, and we wrote them into the law. In connection with this answer, I would refer to Mrs Jelusic's question, which is not in the Chamber, however. Her question was whether we had taken into account the comments and opinions of the District Court in Ljubljana, which is solely responsible for the implementation of this law. My answer is, yes, we've taken all their views into account, except for one. This view was, however, that they would no longer be solely responsible for the implementation of this law. A proposal was made for these procedures to be carried out by other district courts. We have argued why we believe that for now it should remain as it is, so Ljubljana is solely responsible for the conduct of these procedures. With this in mind and I hope, or he will complement me that I have already replied to Mr Jerovšk, who has been preparing the law and what will be done with regard to increasing efficiency. I would like to tell Mr Vogrin about his opinion that the law is not being implemented or not being applied, the following. In fact, the law entered into force on 30 May 2012. We know that financial investigations have been carried out under this law for one year, which is why the law provides for a considerable period of time for the implementation of the financial investigation. At the District Court in Ljubljana, proceedings are under way. So much for the implementation of the applicable law so far. With regard to the question of Mrs Katarina Hočevar, her question is now regarding the period for which the financial investigation is being carried out. I'd like to say the following here. We need to know that the condition for initiating a financial investigation under this law is enough to trigger a financial investigation to suspect that a person has committed a catalogue crime. So, on the one hand, we have only the suspicion of criminal service, on the other hand, of the civil seizure envisaged by the PDONI, which is essentially an important intervention in the constitutionally protected right of private property. I'll explain right away why I'm saying this. We have two very important aspects on the scale, so caution is needed over a period of time. Even when it comes to the period, we are dealing with a constitutionally protected aspect or a constitutionally relevant aspect of retroactivity, so in our opinion, five years before the year of the catalogue crime service is long enough. This is also the opinion of the Prosecutor's Office, especially because when we talk about the confiscation of property after the DOPNI, we are particularly interested in the period from the service of the crime until the action is brought. We have taken this constitutional aspect into account, which I have explained when it is necessary to be careful, but also the practical aspect to which the prosecution has pointed, and, last but not least, when deciding on the period of financial investigation, it is also necessary to take into account the fact that the Tax Administration keeps the data. This element is also taken into account here. However, I would like to say the following again. This emphasis seems particularly important to me that all assets are frozen by the introduction of the financial investigation. If that's what I'm trying to describe. If someone steals a vehicle and uses this vehicle to transport in the form of a taxi service, the stolen vehicle will be confiscated under the Penal Code, i.e. the subject of a criminal seizure. All the earnings that will be earned from the service of the crime until the action is brought, i.e. all the profits that it will earn by carrying out this activity, are the subject of a seizure after the PDO. Our thoughts in the matter of civil confiscation go primarily in the direction of the present or the seizure of all assets, namely those obtained illegally, from the service of the crime forward. It seems to us quite enough from all the aspects that I have described to look at in the context of the financial investigation five years ago from the crime service. Yet another aspect is not negligible that the financial investigation itself can last a year or a year or a half. So we also have a long period of time here. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr Mirko Brulc has the floor, followed by Mr Borut Ambrožič and Mag. Leila Hercegovac. Here you go, Mr. Brultz.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u158	Thank you very much. First of all, I wanted to congratulate my colleague Wilfan on receiving the Bludk Award for Life's Work in Sports. I think it's nice to have someone like that between us. Now to the point. Look, there's been a lot of things said today, even unnecessary, since it's not political will Yes, what the hell are we doing if it's not political will to get the right results once! [[…]] I ask the opposition, because some have had such discussions, help us to prepare an excellent law together. Today we do not belong to any president of the biggest opposition party; this debate is irrelevant here. But if someone says he doesn't know where he got 200 grand from, that's not the kind of thing, that's one house, people, dear, and you don't know where you got it, the other doesn't know where he got 3 million and so on. [[…]] I didn't start this conversation. You started it on the other side. People like that need to be put in the right place. It's over. And take the property if you don't know where it's from. Look, economic crime, there was so much that I can't believe there was so much of it in our country. And thank God, the last period of this thing is solved in one way or another. Land Book Debt. Yeah, which one of us had information that this is so insanely abused, it went to thousands? We're finally interfering with this area. To make it easier to understand, you probably know, the legal language is sometimes incomprehensible, and people don't know what's behind it. If I steal a bike, they catch me, they take my bike. It's property. I'm being charged, and I'm gonna pay the fine. But it happens to us that these ghastly tycoons are caught, they are in court, they are convicted, they get a prison sentence, and they say 50,000 euros more should be paid and so on. That's funny. The Italian mafia was mentioned today. They stepped on their doors when they said, not just prison — property. And not just a mobster, including an aunt, an uncle, a brother, and so on. This has to happen. We must have such legislation – if I consider now what has happened – but for the future, no one will want to take advantage of it in this way. For him to know right away, well, I'll go to jail, but they'll take my kid's house, and my wife will be taken away from the apartment, and I don't know what. This is important. I think we're making a law like this, and that's the way it is. I agree with my colleague Tonin. He said, "The law must be so useful." We had already met when we accepted this first version, that the judiciary said, "Yes, but since we have laws, it's no problem, we have a law to take property." Yeah, why didn't we take it? Because he wasn't life or because those judicial authorities, like the prosecutor, the judge, I don't know what they're afraid of. There's a bomb down there, threatening each other in one way or another, every politician who's been convicted in any way or in the process is threatened. We need to protect these workers and workers in these bodies. Maximum protection. You know, I'm at home having people say to me, "Yeah, he's in prison, but he's got 7, 8 apartments at sea and a house and that." And that judge, that prosecutor who's going to get this property taken away, because you don't know today, we've been talking about aggressions and possibilities in one of the previous paragraphs, and so on, when we're talking about the police. These judicial authorities must also be protected if I simplify them. But once again, let's step together, let's not do inventory of who's got anything, how, but what we're going to do to make not only people happy that justice will be served. That the one with the butter on his head is also carrying the rations materially. I'll be happy to support this novel. I'm sorry it's the first reading that doesn't go any faster than this whole thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Tinker Bell, you have a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u160	Mr. Brulc must have misunderstood me when I was talking about priorities. The fact that the financial investigation has not been initiated against the champion of Positive Slovenia, Mr Jankovic, for EUR 2 million and against the champion of the biggest opposition party for ten times lower amounts is, I understand, a reflection of Mr Brulco's fear of the prosecution. What, then, is a reflection of fear? Mr Jankovic is the president of the largest government party. So the D.A. is afraid of the government. And now tell me, how will this prosecutor conduct the worst investigations if they're afraid of their own governments?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr Borut Ambrožič was next. I can see that he is not in the hall now, so she has the word of Master Leila Hercegovac and is being prepared for her by Mrs Sonja Ramšak and Mr Happy Meh. Here you go, Master Hercegovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. This law or amendment of the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin is very important. The law is important to us, for the national assembly, for the government, it is important for all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. It's true, as colleague Ludmila said, anyone who comes into the office, first thing he says is, why we don't have the money, take the money to those who illegally acquired it. That's why I think it's very important that we have this marriage on the table. Of course, it's a two-year-old law, and it's normal to fix it, because in the first performance, we can't know all the little things that aren't what we want. We therefore know the objective of the proposal. We also know that this is a legal procedure. We also know that he is being led by the State Prosecutor's Office, i.e. financial investigations, that a court is to decide and that a financial investigation is to be ordered by the State Prosecutor. In those five years, I thought, a short time before the year in which the crime was committed, but after the Secretary of State explained it, I understood it correctly. It seems very good to me that the judicial procedure for the confiscation of assets of illegal origin is necessary and that priority is given. We haven't had that before. The main solutions are set out in the nine points and in the second paragraph of Article 2, point 5 of Article 4, Article 7 and Article 17a. I'm not gonna tell them because it's all in the law. I think it is very nice that the Uprising Civil Society Fema Group has also been involved in the change of DOPNI, then the movement of the All-Slovenian People's Uprising, then the Uprising Party Solidarity, which means that civil society has also participated in the drafting of amendments to this law. Nevertheless, I would like to read that we have received a hint from some of the region's experts that there may be a change in the DESCRIPTION of the two. On the one hand, it is indeed intended to enable investigators to function more effectively and, on the other hand, some potential investigators should also be protected from "too much" intensive investigation. No one wants to make these suggestions out loud because the claim cannot be proved in the current stage. Therefore, it is normal to say that the assets of allegedly illegal origin are €230 million reserved, that three actions for the confiscation of property have already been filed and 78 persons have been investigated in 2012. How is this regulated in other countries? Austria has this law-abiding arrangement, it is implemented in Italy, although it is not regulated by law. Why is there nothing done in Slovenia if the marriage was two years old? My answer would be that when the new law comes, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia take it into account between 52 and 59%. Unlike England and other northern countries, where close to 90 and 89% of them are immediately taken into account by law. This means that we do not always have bad marriages, but that we do not respect them when we get them. Therefore, after two years, we can say whether he was a good marriage or not because he did not live for various reasons. The European Union strives to ensure that all countries have similar laws. I can say that, according to the data so far, 17 countries are doing what we want in Europe. In the future, Europe believes that Poland and Slovakia will do the worst. But still, we are glad that we have today a change of this law, that it will come to life in a different way, and I think we must all be together for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mrs Sonja Ramshak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. Honourable President, Honourable Secretary of State with a co-worker, Member of Parliament and Members! Of course, we all agree that anyone who has obtained any property illegally must be deprived of it. When I look at the material prepared by the competent ministry, given that the law was indeed adopted in November 2011 and that its application dates back to 2012, I am surprised that, under this law, certain financial investigations took place only in 78 cases and that a financial investigation was then determined according to the data of the State Attorney's Office in six cases, in one case in the area of the Maribor District Attorney's Office and the Special Prosecutor's Office in five cases. Even when I am looking at the legal solutions themselves, I must say that in Article 8 when the first paragraph of Article 14 of the current law is being supplemented and the competent state prosecutor is informed of the introduction of the financial investigation by the Head of the Public Prosecutor's Office, which establishes a financial investigation group and orders to the Head of the Special Prosecutor's Office, regardless of whether you have said that it has been negotiated in the professional circles, it is said, in the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Justice, but I would say that this is an extremely important and challenging subject matter, so I would expect that these matters will be decided by the actually Specialised State Prosecutor's Office, within the Special Prosecutor's Office. Why am I saying this? Because only people who are trained to detect such organised crime can find that some assets have been acquired illegally can then properly lead the process. Why do I doubt that this will happen in these cases? Even so, a good law will not help if the relevant law enforcement and judicial authorities do not process matters within reasonable time. Why am I saying this? We know that we have huge backlogs in the courts, including in economic crime and in organised crime, and I am even more saddened that certain cases related to organised crime remain in the prosecutions, in the district state prosecutors' offices, that matters are obsolete and that they are not processed in a way that is not in the way that is happening elsewhere, that is to say that individuals are being processed, but that it is not to be seen as a wider organised group. I will not state what, because, given my written question, which I raised on Monday, I have received warnings on this basis. I certainly support this law, but I think we have a lot of work to do from word to word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Happy Meh has the floor. Prepare Mr Michael Prevc and Mrs Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u166	Thank you very much. In fact, this change of law would require all of us to maximize our commitment so that this law would be the best to capture at a given time everything that it lacks to date. And if we were to discuss it this way, there would not be much to say, because both the courts and the civil society and all those who know it are respected. However, if we talk about everything together in this law, what has not been done, and I am very pleased that Mr Cernač spoke about the President of the largest opposition party, that there has been a talk about him, I would really be happy if everyone respected the courts, our laws and the President of the largest opposition party took the verdict and respected the courts. Well, no. I also find it unwise to talk today about buying time for the coalition. What time is it, ladies and gentlemen? Time of 2012? In 2013? In ten months, this government, this coalition, has drawn up changes to the law to improve the work in this area and to do exactly what we are talking about today, have taken the property away from those who have wrongfully acquired it and made it possible for the judicial authorities to work and do their work. And we shouldn't have aroused that mistrust that everything wasn't okay. Who should work if not the judicial authorities? And one more question to those of you who said you shouldn't be chasing a chicken thief. What's the limit when we shouldn't be chasing them? Whoever did something wrong should be treated and the law should not have any exceptions. Chicken thief, 200,000, 2 million, 200 million – how much? That is why I think it would be right not to talk like that and to try to improve the law as much as possible. My call is that, let's do everything we can to ensure that all those who have done anything wrong, including timely punished, lawfully punished, not to let us down here into whether or not someone has done something right or wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Tinker Bell has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u168	Yes, but Mr. Meh can't get out of his skin. At a time when, on the basis of these guidelines that Mr Meh has been talking about, you will also clean up your illegally accumulated money, and you will obviously not, because it is important to you that the thieves are important to you, there are important small stories for you to show in public how the government supports the persecution of this economic crime, but you are only strong in words and rhetoric, and instead you have ordered those citizens to pay around EUR 5 billion of these jobs instead of them, all of which represents one part of the bank hole. With regard to the champion of Mr Jankovic's largest government party, I merely asked whether this is in line with this principle that he should not be dealt with in such an investigation, where 2 million euros is concerned, but obviously a number of others are being considered for substantially smaller amounts, with significantly less justified circumstances. I've been talking about this, it's obvious that the fear of prosecutors and the justice of this government is so great that they don't have the hope of catching up with these big lumps, and because of what we've heard today, they obviously won't in the future, because there's a very clear signal on your part today that they have to leave them alone.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u169	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the next debater. Mr Mikhael Prevc is next, followed by Mrs Alenka Jeraj and then Mr Aljoša Jerič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u170	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Honorable representative of the government, distinguished colleague and colleague! Let me say that I will support the amendment of the Law on the Seizure of Property of Irreversible Origin because I support any contribution to improving the effectiveness of the confiscation of assets obtained in an illegal way. It seems to me that this is a very important law, that it is an important novelty, and even I am glad that the call comes from the opposition in particular, that it is such an important law that we must step together, that we must work together in the adoption of this law, that we must upgrade it in this way and give it added value. Yeah, I hope that happens. I hope that further adoption of this law at second reading, third reading, when we consider individual amendments, that not all amendments that we will sincerely aim to improve this law will not be rejected after the current tape, will also be tabled by members of the opposition. I agree with all those, even from our opposition species, these calls come that this law must be joined together. When we had already adopted a law three years ago that was supposed to persecute those who came in an illegal way to obtain property, we also supported it in the Slovenian People's Party, and, of course, in the hope that this law would achieve its purpose. Today we find that this law has not achieved its purpose that this law has not been operational, that this law has not been effective. In part, we have heard answers from the proposer, why he was not effective, where the reasons are and, of course, I strongly hope, that this amendment of the law brings all those solutions, brings all those to a greater extent the effectiveness of this law, so that this law can be implemented. In fact, I am very, very sad that we have information that no court proceedings have yet been concluded regarding the persecution of those who have illegally come to this property. I am glad that we have a fairly uniform opinion today. We all agree that something radical needs to be changed in this area. Finally, citizens are asking us to do so. When we burden them day by day, when the government burdens them with such and different taxes, it's actually the first thing our citizens warn us about, but why don't you confiscate the property to those who have acquired it in an illegal way, and there are so many of these people. In this law, however, I hope, and the proposaler also ensures that this amendment of the law is not so focused on substantially increasing the powers of individual bodies or the system of law, but rather on better coordination of all the participating bodies. It is likely that this better coordination of all these competent authorities has not been established so far, and this law, which is still in force, has been so ineffective. It also follows from this proposal that the tax administration, at a rate of 70% tax, will tax the difference between the officially acquired and used assets, which means that the data are. The data are, only should be accessed and these data should be used to be used by those competent authorities responsible for this. There are still a few questions about this law, and I am sure that this law still has some room for manoeuvre and will be added further. One of the questions that comes to me is how it's going to be with that property that someone illegally acquires and then gives it to someone. It is said that it will be found that this property was given to someone, that it was obtained illegally. However, this novelty of the law eliminates the incredible abuses of land debt. We all know how much abuse this has taken place in Slovenia. This marriage, however, brings this story to an end. Once again, honourable Members, let us turn from all these words that have been given in this Chamber today to acts. It is our job to contribute to the coalition and to the opposition to improve this law in a way that is significantly more effective than this existing law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs. Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u172	Thank you for your word. I agree with some predecessors that correction is usually not as good as writing a new law if you estimate that it is not appropriate and that it was not possible to do well. For example, I give only insolvent legislation, which we continue to correct, but the problems are not the end of the place, they are changing in the middle of the proceedings, and in the end, even the bankruptcy administrators do not know what to do to satisfy the law. Slovenia comes first after corruption. Since we have a very effective commission for some of us, the anti-corruption commission, we have only climbed up the ladder and now landed in the first place. I also have some problems with what some predecessors have pointed out that we have no problem with being examined by the President of the opposition party, but it is necessary to look at who is not being investigated. If the problem is 200 000 euros, which has barely been compiled by someone with Gurs' official records, what it assumes is how valuable the property is, we should be more concerned that the financial investigations of two million and something else are missing. We read in the report or explanation of the law that 6 financial investigations were made, according to one data, 78, and that temporary collateral was still significantly lower. I asked Minister Plicanič about this, and he was also asked by colleague Kociprova, colleague Eva Irgl. The data is for 2012, and I don't know what's been going on all of 2013 and we don't have any data on it, but here you are giving us the old data that we got in response to last May's question. I think if you want the law to be up to date, and it's supposed to be, it was filed in November, you should operate on data that is one year old. We have a whole bunch of people in this country with millions and nothing happens to them. Let us recall that Mr Zidar's temporary security of property, which is in several procedures, should have been at the end of his sentence, but of course he is sick and unable to endure punishment, but he has a lot of property. After the current tape, all assets are transferred to their spouses, relatives, and so on. The legislation already in force allows for the inspection of connected persons as well as the insurance of the assets of these connected persons. Why isn't that happening? Probably not because of us politicians, but because of those who should initiate these procedures. They are proposed by law enforcement authorities, then by the prosecution and eventually by the court, and it would be almost a shame to lose words about the courts. To order financial investigations by the Attorney-General of State, Mr Fischer, it is illustrative to expect, for example, against Mr Jankovic for two million reasons, because we know that when he received the information from the Tax Administration, the complaint from the Tax Administration, he did so to the then President of the Republic, Mr Turk. He probably won't be the one to propose such a financial investigation, even though it would be necessary. I ran an investigative committee in this National Assembly. In 2011, we finished our work, filed a complaint with the Attorney General's Office and proposed an investigation. Obviously, we have to report to the policy if there is no commission, probably nothing would have happened at all, but when we got the data from the Anti-Money Laundering Office, which cannot act, it is necessary to invite it to do so, or should have given it to someone else, we forwarded it to the Tax Administration, we proposed a financial review, a tax investigation, and then something happened and the Tax Administration also gave the data further. Then we have another Mr Isajlovich, and I don't know where he got so much money that he bought a piece of Technik from the Loka, which he is now doing a good job on Planica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u173	I suggest, Mrs. Jeraj, that you focus on the law. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u174	I'm talking about a financial investigation and I suggest a financial investigation is made. If the gentlemen of the D.A. were to look at the report every day, they could order one financial investigation every week and what kind of thing would lead to the end. Not to mention Mr. Rigelnik or anyone else. There's no financial investigation in millions, but I don't know how many criminals are involved in a few 10,000 euros.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr Aljoša Jerič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u176	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! We, as Members, are discussing many problems in our own scope, many times in a very populist way. We're doing this on both the left and the right. We have a lot of support from the media that offers us a wide range of problems every day. But it is our mission, our mission, that is why we are also appointed Members and Members, that, in addition to identifying problems, we are primarily looking for and taking solutions. Everyone here today who says that this bill is unnecessary, that it is not good to be written by corrupts, is carrying out this kind of populism. You see conspiracy everywhere, but you don't talk about salvation. Neither the solutions contained in the bill, nor the alternative solutions that should be offered as Members if they were already criticising these solutions in the hearing. But that's not it. As today's debate on the proposed amendments to the law on the confiscation of property of illegal origin, I will also focus on these changes. At the time of the application of the law, the first practical experience was obtained mainly with regard to the financial investigation procedure and the temporary insurance of assets of illegal origin. The State Prosecutor's Office and other competent authorities have proactively taken action in the implementation of the procedures under the PDO, so that concrete procedures are already under way. Given the novelty of the institutions governed by the law, accepting its operation in practice is all the more important as it is inevitable that, on the basis of the experience of the competent authorities, it is necessary to supplement the existing arrangements. According to the information available, no proceedings have yet been completed for the confiscation of assets of illegal origin. It is expected that, due to the complexity and extent of the origin of the assets, the financial investigation under Article 17 of the PDONI may last for a maximum of one year and, for objective reasons, this period may be extended for a further six months. On the basis of the above, it is clear that only the adoption of the PDO could not produce immediate results, but it must be borne in mind that it was following a financial investigation carried out and an action brought before the competent court for a regular civil procedure, which also lasted a certain period of time. The objectives of the novel are thus to ensure greater efficiency and the smoothest possible cooperation of the competent authorities in the Republic of Slovenia and also in international cooperation, resulting from an analysis of the comments received by the competent authorities. In view of the novelty of the institutes governed by the PDONI in the Slovenian legal system, it would be totally inappropriate if the novelty meant systemic changes to the arrangements that would break the whole concept of the law and impose a renewed burden on the competent authorities by means of a new regime. In view of the above, the proposed amendments focus on the finalisation of the current concept on the basis of comments from all the competent authorities implementing the law and dealing in practice with possible shortcomings of the law. And what are these main solutions? One solution is a provision abolishing the subjective circumstances, that the person knew or should have known that the property of illegal origin had been transferred to him as a condition for the confiscation of that property. The subjective condition of the recipient's credibility is irrelevant and thus the asset is deducted if the transfer was free of charge or for a payment that does not correspond to the actual value. In the event of payment of actual value, this value shall be deducted from the original holder of the assets of illicit origin. In view of this ambiguity, such a condition would in practice make it very difficult to prove and thus make the procedure effective after the action for the confiscation of assets of illegal origin. Next solution. A comprehensive and detailed regulation of the records shall be laid down, in order to comply with the Personal Data Protection Act and to ensure an adequate legal basis. Different arrangements for tax procedures relating to property of illegal origin. As from the date of the initiation of a fair procedure for the confiscation of property of illegal origin, no tax procedure on that property may be initiated, but from the point of view of tax law, it is more appropriate that, following the initiation of a fair procedure for the confiscation of property of illegal origin on immovable property, it is not only possible to initiate a procedure for the assessment of the real estate tax and the tax on gifts. After the initiation of a fair procedure for the confiscation of property of illegal origin, the rules in force preclude any kind of tax procedure, which makes no sense. In addition, in the new second paragraph, it is added that, after the initiation of a fair procedure, land debt payments cannot be initiated, as they attempt to prevent the abuse of owners who have already set up land debt and try to prevent land-based letters from taking property of illegal origin. The next solution is a clearer definition of the property of illegal origin and the notion of the owner. The assets of illicit origin shall be treated as assets which have not been obtained on the basis of legitimate income or by legal means. Article 5 of the PDONI states that a reference is made to the grounds for the suspicion that the holder of the assets of illicit origin has committed a catalytic offence, since this fact is primarily relevant from the point of view of the procedural assumption for the initiation of the procedure under the PDO, but that fact has no effect on the very existence of the assets of illegal origin. It is also proposed to amend the definition of the term owner, which is now defined as a person who has or is engaged in administrative traffic as a holder of a property right. The following amendment and a significant novelty is also the provision of Article 7(3) of the PDONI, which explicitly specifies the parties to a fair procedure for the confiscation of property. Article 7 of the Act provides for the competent authorities only as regards the stage of the conduct of the financial investigation procedure, but does not specify which body is responsible for bringing the action and representing the Republic of Slovenia as the applicant in the confiscation proceedings. The proposed amendment therefore expressly provides, in the new third paragraph, for the sake of the clarity, integrity and greater consistency of the law, that the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office is responsible for bringing the action and representing the Republic of Slovenia as the applicant in the confiscation proceedings. Thus, the third paragraph gives a clear mandate to the Specialised State Prosecutor for the representation of the Republic of Slovenia as an applicant. Next change. The law establishes the statutory establishment of a financial investigation team established by the Head of the competent State Prosecutor's Office and then informs the Head of the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office thereof. In addition to the competent State Prosecutor's Office, which is the head of the financial investigation team, the representatives of the Police, Dursa, Cursa, State Defence, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Prevention of Money Laundering, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and the Agency for the Market in Securities and the Agency for the Protection of Competition or the Court of Auditors shall participate. Representatives of those bodies whose knowledge and competence is necessary for the successful conduct of all investigations shall be proposed to the members of the Financial Investigation Commission. So far, only the possibility of setting up a financial investigation team under the authority of the Head of the competent State Prosecutor’s Office or on the proposal of those State authorities has been envisaged in the law. Finally, the last amendment I mention should mention this novelty, as set out in the new Article 17a, which allows the examiner to get acquainted with the data collected in the financial investigation and to propose his evidence. It is the protection of the constitutionally guaranteed right to contradiction. This gives the examiner the opportunity to present his views and evidence of the legality of the origin of his assets before the action is brought and the commencement of the proceedings. To this end, the law provides for a claim to be made by the competent State prosecutor, on which the competent prosecutor shall inform the investigator of the findings of the financial investigation and allow him to give arguments and evidence of the origin of the assets of illegal origin. In view of the solutions proposed, I will support the amendment of the law in the next procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Are you done? Thank you very much, Mr. Jerich. We continue with the next debater. Mr. Richard Braniselj has been reported. Here you go, Mr. Braniselle.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u178	Thank you very much. A while ago, it was said in one of the discussions that this Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin was illegal. I can't agree with that. Only an operative who does not implement this law may be inoperable. And the operative who must enforce this law must be a professional. And a professional doesn't read the law, he interprets it. And every marriage has a certain philosophy to follow. I don't agree that it's the fault that things haven't been done the way they should. There are some things I'd like to say about the land debt. Here I would once again call on the Ministry of Justice to perform its homework as soon as possible, and I think it is already working, and then we will have this story actually concluded by facilitating the processing or challenge of all those land debts that are now fictitiously recorded in land books and protecting property belonging to the State. I would also like to make a proposal in this regard. The problem of challenging fictitious land debts will be judicial fees. We know that these properties are secured by land debt, which is worth millions and more. The creditor, who already has no assets owed to him, will have to collect another 50 or 100 000 euros in legal fees in order to be able to press charges against this fictitious debt at all. I would suggest that the state come across here and exempt these creditors from paying court fees for the lawsuit. I think the country must also feel a little guilty at this point, guilty that this took years and years when these land debts were being botched, went to extreme harm, to outright fraud, and would be exempt from court fees on the spot and fair. If I went back to the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin, I would point out the following. All the weight of processing and success will be on the district attorneys. We already know that the prosecution has been fed, and by means of this law, we give them a powerful tool, from which we are promised many spoils. On the other hand, we need to ensure that we have a team that can do this, a team of good prosecutors. We also need to know that under this law we have certain deadlines in which prosecutors have to carry out things, and this is a matter of priority. Therefore, the prosecution will also need to be strengthened, as this government has strengthened the National Investigation Office and all the institutions that we urgently need to prosecute organised crime and corruption, as well as all those institutions from which we expect them to do everything in order to restore illegally acquired property to the state budget. Of course, this law is suitable for further consideration and the National Gazette, or I will personally support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u179	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I see interest in the debate, so I am opening up applications for debate. In the end, the word comes from a representative of the government. Each debater has 5 minutes. The first is Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u180	Dear Vice President, thank you. Perhaps the only way to start is to really bother me when individual Members present their own views and then remove all their vocabulary from the goals, purposes and reasons of the law. I think it's the government's responsibility to present this to us. So that perhaps the President, for the next debate, would alert such debaters to indicate their position, not to read the reasons, objectives and purposes of the government and to say, in the end, that they agree, and this is it. So much for a start. I just think that the basic law or this applicable law is not that problematic, and the problem is the implementation of this law. But this is clearly a practice that is happening in Slovenia not only in this area of confiscation of assets of illegal origin, but also in other matters. If we look at the entire Slovenian legislation in this area, whether it be a criminal code or similar legislation, there are mechanisms that individual entities or bodies have, more than enough to sanction individual matters and can also become definitively what we all dream of, but above all much talk about, this is the rule of law, the legal security of all people, the seizure of acquired property in an illegal way and so on. But it always gets stuck when we write the law, despite the cooperation of the professional public, despite all the cooperation I don't know who, despite all the services in the individual ministries, but look at it, if we don't make a cardinal error in the law, then we're going to make a mistake in implementing the law. In this law, the main work will be carried by the Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary, which are the two bodies to which, if I have the right memory, the budget also takes certain funds. So here is the first warning to see whether this marriage, despite its best prospects, will come to life the way we want it to. Otherwise, as I said before in the position of the Group of Members, there has been some progress. I think the greatest progress is, but I hope that I will not be wrong that we are talking about this topic today, I think, for three or four hours now, so the public will be informed and will say again, "Look, the government is preparing something, the Members are all agreeing, super, fine" the other day will be marks, and apparently the day will be marks when something like this will probably happen, that some other important story will be diverted. I expect most from this law on the issue of land debt. Here I really expect us all to unify ourselves that this institution will not be abused as it has been in the past, but to do this institution as we all had good intentions in the first law or in the law in force. In this law, I have repeatedly remembered that commitment or agreement between the Slovenian government and the judiciary, how they will solve everything super fine and then wait almost half a year for some law, and the analyses are from May 2012, and we are already in January 2014. I hope that the ministry, and then the prosecution, as well as all the other authorities, will give pace if the government really says that this is again one of the priorities of this government. I expect that the intensity is much higher at a fast pace, but not every five months, six months we remember, "ops", but we have this law, and in time it is only necessary to implement a provision, then there is some famous media story, and then we get into this bike, the prosecution, the judiciary, where we see stories very rarely or so far after this law. I am truly sorry that you have not taken the professional opinion more seriously, but you have been at least so honest, and this is a tribute to the fact that you yourself have written down what the professional public has proposed and what you have not taken into account in the bill. Maybe just for the end of the observation about the District Court in Ljubljana. Really, why don't we think again about why Ljubljana is a top center. I had received an SMS earlier when my colleague asked me whether the biggest thieves were exclusively in Ljubljana, or whether this government apparently did not trust other courts, because they were obviously the wrong colors, professions or I do not know what they could not do what they were probably trained to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u181	Thank you. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor. Before that, I would just like to say, Mr Lisec, in view of your proposal as President, I really cannot, given the constitutional freedom of speech, forbid any Members or Members of Parliament from saying so, or in any way deny them the possibility of reading or telling them the objectives of the law we are talking about. Of course, the debate was also different today. Some took stock of the findings of the commission of inquiry, others of the case, so there really was something going on. I agree with you that you want everyone here, in particular, to explain their personal position on the law, but freedom of speech is the one. Here you go, Mrs. Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u182	Thank you for saying that again. I support all steps in the right direction to improve legislation, but I must agree that the law is not everything, as my colleague Braniselj said, in the end there are always people who implement the law and can implement it thoroughly or slightly less thoroughly. If you remember one case when the prisoners were accused of having an affair with the Balkan Warrior, one of the gentlemen just sold his place for two million, notar came to prison, that's what they did there. Because he was afraid that if he had been accused, he might have taken his property, and sold it at the time of his detention. Look, under surveillance, with all the possible institutions, it's like jailers, everyone knew he came to him notarized, that they verified the contract, that he actually sold his place out of prison. I think it can only be done in Slovenia. But nothing happened to the judge who worked the case, not to the prosecutor or the prosecutor. You probably shouldn't afford an anomaly like that. And he must have cleaned up some other property in this way or put it somewhere else so that it might not be taken away from him. In recent times, there have been various botts and uncles, older gentlemen, who have seen that despite their years they are still very active and agile. The case, which I have already pointed out, Mr Isajlovich, who at some point was even the advisor of the finance minister in this country, accepted the bankers, did everything possible, apparently in his pay he was able to earn so much that he could buy a healthy part of the company Technik Škofja Loka, today's Gorenjec, who works in Planica. Mr Luksic, the then Minister for Education, who gave this work to this gentleman, appears to be there again. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u183	Mrs. Jeraj, would it be possible about the marriage, not about the persons, because now they can't defend themselves, to explain the matter to you?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u184	Mrs. Brunskol, I wonder what you have to do with Mr. Isilovich so we can't mention him here?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u185	Please, if you define yourselves to be married.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u186	Sam boasted that he had arranged for the banks to learn about matters, advised Mr Križanič, somewhere we even read that he advised him to put 300 million in Probank and Factor Bank in 2009. I don't know why we shouldn't mention him. He's obviously very successful and penetrating if he can do all these things. I wonder whether, like Mr Jankovic's son, I should propose a financial review, a tax investigation, because I don't know, as I said before, I don't have such a bad salary, and I couldn't just buy one company. I don't know where Mr. Isilovich got that kind of money, and if the law enforcement authorities don't think it's at least a little weird that we're looking at these things. A similar case is Mr Rigelnik. I need to talk about names because we're talking about millions and people I'm sure have acquired assets in an illegal way that should have been taken from them, or at least a proposal should be made for temporary collateral until millions of them are determined. There are few people in this country who have millions earned their wages. And these things could be effectively persecuted if, of course, we wanted them. Mr. Rigelnik, at least what he did, Probanko, the Bank Factor was running out of money, and he's been working unfaithfully to bring this thing to the brink of collapse a few times. As I mentioned, Mr Križanič invested 300 million in 2009 last year, and at the end of April, Mr Chufer, Minister of Finance, had data that Probanka and Factor Bank were underwater, yet he ordered the new 100 million in both banks. Now both banks and their debts are on the backs of taxpayers. We are all going to pay for this, but Mr Rigelnik has lived for 16 years in a house that is now occupied by banks owned by the company, not by his own. I don't understand why he doesn't have the luxury apartment he bought for half a million euros. Where'd he get that money? At the very least, we would propose interim insurance and review how it came to this. These people are asked why they sit on millions and on their property, and we will all pay their debts together because we have hung this or that government has hung it on our backs. We've been against it and we'll always be against such frauds to pay their debts to those who have done them.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor. I should still recall that we are discussing the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin and would suggest that the debate is also about this law, not about the persons concerned. Here you go, Mr. Tinker Bell.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u188	Yes, thank you very much. I think that this is exactly what we are discussing, whether this law or the amendment of this law will help to ensure that the property is first frozen, and then also if it is found that it has been illegally acquired, you are speaking 70%, we say that everything should be taken away from those who have obtained such property illegally. We are talking about the fact that it is at this point, when this law is in the process, once again one of the pianist moves of this government, which should strengthen the public's conviction of its great commitment to combating economic crime, corruption, banking crime and all the worst jobs. Last June, the Government, the Minister of Justice and Public Administration, signed a public commitment to the Slovenian people to improve the state of justice, where the main part of this commitment is a statistical representation that will be able to realise over a period of time that this situation in the field of prosecution of the worst crime is more favourable. Specific cases count, specific cases and numbers. In connection with the numbers, let me answer this point to Mr Meh, who spoke earlier, where the line is between what is to be pursued and what is not. The border, Mr Meh, is already established in the law, does not change and is relatively high in terms of one average citizen. In our situation, where we are talking about a few ten million euros in work, it is too low. And let's keep it the way it is, we don't have a problem with that. The problem is that the perception of the prosecution and the judiciary must be in the direction of persecution of the worst. It is not, however, that, on the basis of the current implementation of this law, as mentioned in bad statistics, the belief that this law is increasingly serving as an instrument for political persecution, rather than for the prosecution of those who have acquired more than 10 or even more EUR 100 million worth of assets, which we will pay through higher taxes through the coverage of the bank hole. Everybody. To the greatest extent, it will be those who have been robbed by these services and their future, and young people, because this will jeopardize their perspective, because the country will not be able to develop normally as a result of the recovery of these burdens from the past. And a large part of this responsibility, of course, is borne by justice and the prosecution. I cannot agree with Mr Branisl's assessment that the prosecutors are too few. No, no, no. All the statistics say, excuse me, otherwise. They say that there are too many of them and that they are not effective — both prosecutors and judges. I've already given you specific cases where everything is handled by a department that is supposed to deal with the worst forms of crime in this country. And here's the problem, ladies and gentlemen. And this problem will not be solved by this government because it has no purpose. He has no intention of doing that. This is also demonstrated through the amendment of this law and through the full functioning of the current minister. Because it must protect those who are untouchable because it was said earlier, it is obvious that prosecutors are afraid to open large cases. They're afraid, apparently. Otherwise, the same investigation as directed against the leader of the largest opposition party would lead to a ten-fold increase in the same case against the leader of Positive Slovenia who runs this government. Mr Jankovic, we said that in the same case he was suspected that for two million and a few euros he could not explain where he got them from. And that's not the kind of investigation he's being led against. Will this amendment of the law now allow equal treatment for all or not? We're saying no. We argue that these things will continue to happen, as the political authorities of the current ruling coalition will send a signal to those who are supposed to carry out these processes in an impartial and independent manner. And there is no such signal, because in another case, the Minister of Justice would not have responded in such an inappropriate manner when this information came to the public about the conduct of this investigation. But I would ask myself, publicly, how is it possible that it is not directed towards someone where there is ten times the amount in the game, and also against many where there are hundreds of times or more amounts in the game. He didn't say that. And this is a clear signal that this novel will also not improve the situation in the pursuit of the worst forms of crime.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u189	Ms Tina Brecelj, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u190	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I would like to explain or respond to Mr Lisco's thoughts. His views on the exclusive competence of the District Court in Ljubljana. I'd like to say the following. As has already been established here today, one of the main contributions of this novel is that it is envisaged or recorded that the closer cooperation of all those who are competent for the seizure or confiscation of property of illegal origin is being envisaged or recorded. And since we know that a key role will have to be played here by the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office, which is based in Ljubljana, it seems appropriate for us to remain as it is, so that judicial proceedings are also being conducted in court in Ljubljana. This is one of the reasons, indeed, to ensure close cooperation between all the actors concerned, and the other reason is to take into account the way the courts work is also necessary because it is a new law or law that will only now take full effect in order to first form judicial practice. In order to establish a case-law where procedures are already under way, consideration of the extension of these procedures to other district courts may also be allowed in further steps. However, I would also like to say that the measures to ensure the efficiency of the work of the courts show that it is an important condition to ensure that efficiency is specifically specialised. We have specialization already in executive procedures, land-booking procedures, second degree procedures So not everywhere anymore, but the data show that experience shows that it is often the right specialisation key to achieving greater efficiency. So much for court proceedings or the trial itself. In this regard, I would also like to respond to Mrs Ramshak, who, in my view, rightly pointed out the need to include the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office. Here I would like to say that this need or necessity has been perceived by us, so we have written in the novel, and we are essentially referring to the proposed amendment of the State Prosecutor's Act, which should even introduce a special department for the seizure of assets of illegal origin in the Special Prosecutor's Office. However, under the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin, a financial group shall be established by the State Prosecutor's Office. This is because this prosecution is the first to receive information about the crime. It should be known, however, that the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office has been involved at this stage, so it is always there. However, the founder of the group is the one who has all the information at hand first. Since I had said something earlier about why we decided to remain for the financial investigation period a five-year period prior to the commission of the crime, I would like to add that in the transitional provisions of the law under consideration today, the law on the confiscation of assets of illegal origin also applies to cases in which the pre-trial or criminal proceedings began before or after 1 January 1990. Taking this into account, I think this is an additional argument why the five-year period prior to the commission of the crime is an entirely appropriate timeframe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u191	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the proposal for a decision. That the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. Agenda item, this is on the basis of the proposal for a Security Programme Decision and the development of a Scottish Cave Park for the period 2013- 2017 The proposal for a decree was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mags to further explain the motion for a decree. Mr Andrej Jerina, State Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! The programme for the protection and development of the Škocjanska Cave Park is, according to its content, a plan for the management of the protected area and is a programme act to determine the development content, the way in which the protection, use and management of the protected area is carried out. The protection and development programme sets out more detailed guidelines for the protection of natural values in the protected area, taking into account the needs of local development. The Scottish Cave Regional Park is an important member of the global network of protected areas. Due to the geological, geomorphological and hydrological characteristics of Crassus, its biodiversity and natural values, and the cultural landscape at local, national and international level, it has the status of a wider protected area of the regional park under Slovenian legislation, the status of a protected area under European law, that is, Natura 2000 and three important definitions at international level: World Heritage – Unesco, Ramsar Locality and the Biosphere Area of the MAB, which is why the programme also deals with the National Assembly. The core of the Agenda for Protection and Development are the objectives of protection and development: preservation of the Škocjan Caves and the Second Underworld, maintaining a favourable state of the natural values of animal and plant species and habitat types, participating in the protection of cultural heritage, establishing a green park visit and raising awareness of the park, that is to say sustainable development of tourism, strengthening the involvement of the local population in the development of activities and activities in the park and strengthening the role of the park manager in the broader area of the park, that is to say in an influential and transitional area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u193	Thank you very much. The motion for a decree was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Zvonk Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u194	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment is held at its 29th regular session. 1. 2014 as the parent working body considered the proposal for a decree on the programme for the protection and development of the Škocjanska Cave Park for the period 2013-2017. Representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, the Public Institute of the Park Škocjanska Cave, the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development and the Legislative Legal Service participated in the meeting of the Committee. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service was forwarded to the Committee, which examined the proposal for a decision in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative technical aspects and made a concrete comment to Chapter 1, Introduction. Within the deadline of business, the Coalition's parliamentary groups tabled an amendment to Chapter 1.3 of the draft decree, which takes into account the comments made by the Legal and Legislative Service. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, which supports the proposal for a decree. In a brief discussion on the proposal for an act, the members of the Committee felt that it would be necessary to bring the park’s protection and development programme to a wider regional link and strengthen the park’s brand with new products. With regard to the need to provide sufficient financial resources necessary to achieve the park's vision, the new challenge is to raise funds from private capital and to form a public-private partnership. The question raised is how private capital should be involved in the implementation of the primary activities of the institution. The issue of municipal infrastructure is also highlighted, which is not regulated in much of the affected area and of the healing or afforestation in the protected area of the park. The representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment and the Park of the Škocjan Cave provided appropriate answers or clarifications to the questions raised and the comments given. After the discussion, the Committee voted on the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups to Chapter 1.3 of the draft decree and adopted it. In view of the adoption of the amendment, the text of the completed proposal for a decree, which includes the adoption of an amendment, is prepared. The amended proposal for a resolution is an integral part of this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u195	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the National List and the Master of Katarina Hočevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u196	Once again a very nice greeting and a nice greeting to the secretary of state. Škocjanska Cave Park is listed on Unesc's World Heritage List, which recorded a record visit of 100,010 visitors last year. We must protect such pearls of our Slovenia and, of course, give them due attention also within the framework of public funds. However, public services financed from public funds must operate rationally and economically for this purpose. Therefore, when we adopt a decision on the protection and development programme of the Škocjan Cave Park, it is no longer necessary to point out and say that the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment carried out regular monitoring of the operation of this public institution last year and found irregularities both in the conduct of public procurement procedures, in the payment of wages and in violation of the Public Finance Balance Act. We just want to point out that all public institutions and public services, which often knock on the doors of the budget, must first ensure legitimate business. We believe that the Ministry of Public Administration of the Park of Škocjanska Cave will appropriately call for all irregularities to be properly addressed. For example, in the Park of Škocjanska Caves in 2012 they earned a million and fifty thousand euros by selling tickets for visitors. For public service in the park or for the wages of twenty-two regular employees, for example, the government budget office received €637,000 in 2011 and €547,000 last year. The Ministry also reduces funds in this area. In the Citizens' List, we will support the decree on the programme for the protection and development of the Škocjan Cave for the period until 2017. In doing so, both the public agency of the Park of Škocjanski Caves and other institutions that acquire part of the funds on the market, we call for this activity to be further strengthened in the transitional years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Here comes a presentation of the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group presented by Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u198	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. Representative of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Scottish caves are one of our largest natural monuments, our national wealth, which has been included in the UNESCO World Heritage List since 1986. Therefore, the preservation of the entire natural environment under which the Scottish caves are located is of exceptional importance and must be properly targeted. This area is important because of the geological, geomorphological and hydrological characteristics of Crassus, its biodiversity and natural values and cultural landscapes at local, national and international level. Therefore, the programme for the protection and development of the Škocjan Cave Park, or the plan for the management of the protected area that we have before us, is a key document setting out the development guidelines, the way in which the protection of use and the management of the protected area is carried out. The programme also substantiates certain objectives relating mainly to the preservation of the Scottish Caves and the Second Underworld, natural values, animal and plant species and habitat types, and also sets out some more sustainable measures towards greater involvement of the local population in the development of activities in the park. The proposed programme is also the basis for guiding development in the protected area, which to the greatest extent takes into account the objectives of nature protection and the potential for the development of local communities, but also provides a basis for regional and local documents in the field of economic, social, cultural, environmental and spatial development. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we support the proposed decree on the programme for the protection and development of the Škocjanska Cave Park for the period 2013-2017. We note, however, the absence of funds for the implementation of this programme. We fear that, as in the case of the implementation of the Triglav National Park Act, there will be a situation in which the State will formally commit itself to the implementation of certain measures and that the actual implementation of measures will be considerably hampered by the general lack of public funds, which can leave a noble purpose solely on paper. Nevertheless, we will support the proposed decision by the Member and Members of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u199	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia and mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u200	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. It's a nice greeting for everyone! The Scottish caves are one of many Slovenian monuments of exceptional importance, and we must all be aware of this not only because of the tourism and recognition of Slovenia, but because of the preservation of this pearl for our descendants. The programme for the protection and development of the Škocjan Cave Park in the DeSUS Group is considered well-designed and well-directed. Undoubtedly, it is a programme in which experts from various fields participated and is the result of quality work carried out in the regional park of the Škocjanska Cave. An extremely small group of people who have professionally committed to the development of the Škocjan Cave Park is practically breathing for this park. At the same time, we cannot pass through people living in the park itself and not rejecting it when it was established, but rather consider it an opportunity and a possibility of specific development. For such protected areas there is, in principle, a conflict between sometimes harsh naturalists and monumental protection requirements and the needs of the people living in the area. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, this park, which people have taken as their own, is considered to be an example of the symbiosis of the protection of the area and of the lives of the people. It can truly be an example of every park we have in our country, including the Triglav National Park. The proposed programme details the individual characteristics that are linked both to geomorphology, geology and hydrology, and it is crucial for us to maintain natural values and cultural heritage and to develop this protected area in a balanced manner, taking into account the needs of the local population. In the DeSUS Group, we estimate that the programme is aimed at achieving a balanced development of these areas, linked and sunny to the local population. We expect that the program will also actually be reflected in the actions of all, not only the guardians of the Škocjan Park and the local population, but all of us. Our positive position on the proposed act is already based on what has been presented, so we will be in agreement with the DeSUS Group in its support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group and Mr Jožef Horvat have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u202	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Secretary of State, Mag. Jerina, colleagues and colleagues! As an introduction to the introduction, the New Slovenia Group and leadership met with representatives of the Park Škocjanska Cave on 20 January this year as part of their regular regional visits, I think that it has been 17th in a row, and that is why we can discuss the proposal for a decree so much more qualified in my opinion. In Novi Slovenija we are aware that in our country we have extraordinary natural and cultural pearls, and we are extremely proud of them. We must do everything to preserve these natural and cultural pearls and protect them, while at the same time we must do everything to bring this wealth closer to the people of Slovenia on the one hand and on the other hand to the tourists who come to us. Most of us can be self-critical that we do not know enough Slovenian natural heritage. A couple of Škocjanska Caves are even listed on Unesc's World Heritage List, and it also has the status of a protected area under Slovenian legislation, European and international law. The proposed programme is a good basis for achieving the objectives set. Let me point out just a few of them, in our opinion, the most important. We welcome the objective of strengthening the involvement of the local population in the development of activities and activities in the park. This is the key to greater visibility of the entire area, as the promotion is as better as all living people there live in harmony with the park. It is right that people have something from the fact that this is a protected natural area. It is also important to realize that classical, which means mass tourism, does not belong in this protected natural park. The programme refers to the objective of establishing a green park visit and raising awareness of the park, sustainable development of tourism. Christian Democrats encourage all those responsible to develop very thoughtfully and sensitivously planned tourism projects and the country to very carefully implement planned infrastructure projects that could disrupt the balance in the region's park area. It is a major challenge for the public administration and the country and it will provide financial resources from the state budget, donations, development funds, international programmes and its own activities. While we are inclined to seek out the possibility of establishing a public-private partnership, Christian Democrats point out that all items of such solutions should be very well defined primarily in the interests of the conservation and development of the Skocjan Cave Regional Park. The text of the programme also exposes a wider Slovenian problem, namely the abandonment of the use of agricultural areas, thereby affecting the transformation of the cultural landscape of Crassus. We call on those responsible to identify the main causes as soon as possible and to act accordingly. The longer the measures are to be taken, the harder it will be to establish the original situation in this area. Finally, in our opinion, let me draw attention to the worrying and problematic irregularity of the system of collecting and cleaning municipal waste water, which is detected in the state of the river. It contains foams known only to be of organic origin. Such a unique case of natural heritage is unacceptable. We just can't do this and we can't afford it. Members of New Slovenia will support the proposal for a regulation on the programme for the protection and development of the Škocjanska Cave park for the period 2013-2017. However, we want and look forward to a successful work in which responsibility should be first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Ficko and the Positive Slovenia Group have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u204	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Let me also make a proposal for the position of Positive Slovenia in the decision on the programme for the protection and development of the Park of Škocjanska Cave. It is, of course, a park, the only one in Slovenia that must comply with the provisions of global international conventions and programmes, including UNESCO. The specificity of regulation, its protection and, above all, its development is the basis that we must take into account today when adopting this Decision. In Positive Slovenia, we will all be written down and supported on the Committee's presented objectives and orientations. The first and main aspect of our support is certainly the preservation of this natural wealth. As it has already been said, there is a tremendously encouraging increase in the number of visitors in this area, as the number of 100,000 and more has been mentioned by representatives. However, I would again like to draw attention to our assessment of a somewhat under-performing market policy from the point of view of visitors and the development of tourism. That is why I would like to reiterate here the thinking of greater entrepreneurship of those responsible, which could possibly hold all visitors in this area for longer with a more innovative approach. I am not talking about the destruction of natural resources, I am talking about the synergy of the entire area, the integration and creation of a wider common brand. I'm also talking about Lipica. I'm also talking about Postojna Cave. While the decree envisages the creation of a trade mark, it would be reasonable not only to limit it to the Scottish caves, i.e. to a narrow local level, but to include a wider regional area. Let's just take the offer of home-made products, the offer of home-made food, the connection of the wider environment. We therefore propose that we be a little more courageous in the future in this area, as examples from abroad, linking and merging to achieve the same goal can develop in the same direction as we no longer talk about the lack of financial resources, of closed hotels in the vicinity, but of course this is a broader topic. In the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, we will support the decree in the hope that doing business while maintaining this natural pearl will be more successful than today, of course, all with the aim of lower dependence on budget resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u205	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u206	Dear Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleague and colleague. The proposal for a regulation on the protection and development programme of the Škocjanska Cave Park for the period 2013-2017 does not bring any significant changes, novelty or new perspectives on the development of the park in view of the previous period. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the meaningful development of the park, including a high-security programme, would be a wider regional link by strengthening the park's brand. The new challenge must be to raise funds from a wider market context, including the inclusion of private capital, thereby increasing the share of financial self-sustainment. We also draw attention to the issue of the construction of local municipal infrastructure. Regardless of the high level of park protection, this issue needs to be coordinated and resolved with the municipalities. Conjugation is also a problem that will need to be addressed in the future. Since the programme for the protection and development of the Škocjan Cave Park is too static, too ambitious, we will abstain from voting in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u207	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u208	All in attendance, all in attendance! In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposed resolution on the programme for the protection and development of the Park of the Škocjan Cave and we will not abstain. The Škocjan caves are a natural monument in Slovenia and on the classic beauty listed on the UNESCO World Heritage List. This places them in a special, honorable place among the natural monuments of the Council. The importance of the Škocjan caves is also evident from the fact that the famous and famous Altamira cave in Spain is listed only as a cultural monument. The entry of the Scottish caves in Unesc's World Heritage List, of course, obliges the country to preserve and protect this natural landmark. The Scottish caves are a unique intertwine of caves formed by the river River on the karst floor. However, caves themselves are not the only thing this area can offer. Since 1997, the Park Škocjanska Cave has been operating with caves and area of the Škocjanska Cave Park Park, which was established by a special Act on the Skocjanska Cave Regional Park. The Škocjanska Cave Park itself extends to 413 hectares of the protected area and to as many as 45,000 hectares of the influential area, thus covering the entire river basin of the River River and in the area of the park there are 617 inhabitants and is situated in six municipalities. The decree we are adopting today is the basis for the annual work programmes of the manager of the Škocjanska Cave Park, the public institute Park Škocjanska Cave. It is the basis of development to guide development in the protected area and is also the basis for regional and local documents in the field of economic, social, cultural, environmental and spatial development. It is also a provision which must be taken into account in the preparation of its municipal spatial plans by the municipalities located in the park area. These are Divaca, Illyrian Bistrica, Pivka, Hrpelje - Kozina and Postojna. Since the proposed decree deals comprehensively with the protection programme and the development of the regional park, we will be pleased to support it in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u209	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendments have been tabled to the proposed decision. The vote on the motion for a decree will be held in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I'm breaking up with 21. A meeting of the assembly, which we will continue with the vote in half an hour, but according to the minute, I suggest that this is at 5:45.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u210	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Bill of Supplements to the Law on Organising and Working in the Police after a reduced procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled by 29. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 1. Can we make a decision? It's not working. I'm calling off the vote. Now it's working. Okay. I'd like the rest of you to check out the voting devices that you've come to the hall right now. We vote on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 1. We're voting. 77 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was adopted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that the Second reading assembly has adopted an amendment to Article 1 of the amended bill and I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. I'm guessing there's no word for it. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill and I find that no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a third reading law. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. Can we make a decision about the law? We're voting. 79 Members and Members present, 76 votes against. (The vote was 76.)(Nobody.) I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Medicinal Products. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the DeSUS Group to Article 105. Here I warn you that if this amendment is not adopted, the amendment of the same proposal becomes irrelevant to Article 197. Mr Mag has an explanation for the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. Tissel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u211	Thank you for your word. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we support this amendment, as well as the next, which is linked to it, to Article 197. Without this amendment, this law would now bring in so that even pharmacies, called retail, also deal with drugs or wholesale. This somehow introduces the unequal position of other pharmacies and some kind of unfair competition among wholesalers who have also complained and will go to a constitutional opinion that they might also have a retail sale. In Slovenia, however, there is already such a small market and if everyone works for everyone, then no one will have any of it. Pharmacies are public institutions, they are private for competition, that they behave better, but let each one do his job, and it will be work and profit for everyone. Public institutions do not seek profit or all the income is returned to the activity itself. However, we should take care of grosses who serve too much to allow the country to have more of them, as insurance money, especially prescription medicine, should be made more order. Well, this law already works largely because the prices of medicines are determined, so that they cannot then determine the pharmacy itself or other such prices separately. Once again, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group we support these two amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u212	Thank you. There's still an interest in explaining the voice. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u213	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! We have a very interesting situation in Slovenia, not to say a chaotic situation. On the one hand, I'm getting more and more drugs, on the other hand, we're getting less and less money. In doing so, the Ministry should be the first to set a good example for the responsible host as regards the favourable provision of medicines. We were surprised that only because of the responsibility and ability of the hospital director in Slovenj Gradc, 61 to 70 percent of the discount on the basis of the invitation to tender bought one of the medicines, depending on the form and strength, while the Ministry of Health managed to obtain only 12 to 15 percent of the discount for the same medicine. But it's just one of the anomalies that appears that we detect when we purchase and consume drugs. Let me say that New Slovenia will support the amendment of the DeSUS Group to Article 105, and consequently to Article 197, which regulates the set of business entities which are not allowed to engage in wholesale drug trafficking. I believe my colleagues in DeSUS will do the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u214	Thank you. Can we make a decision? On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mr Ivan Hršak has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u215	Thank you for your word. The DeSUS Group tabled these two amendments due to the incompatibilities of the functions, namely public institutions, health institutions and pharmacy activities, which are also involved in wholesale sales. This is essentially incompatible and these vertical integrations are not actually allowed in some countries or in Europe. These are now thirteen, and this number is increasing. It is not compatible, however, because public health establishments and pharmacies are non-profit-making activities, while wholesale is purely profit-making. After all these explanations and views, which have been presented in detail, I appeal to the other parliamentary groups to accept and confirm these two amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u216	Thank you, too. Can we make a decision? We are voting on the amendment of the DeSUS Group to Article 105. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 42. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 126. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 141. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 163. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. As the amendment of the DeSUS Group to Article 105 was not adopted, the amendment to Article 197a became irrelevant. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 205. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. With regard to the harmonisation of the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. You want to tell me about the law's consistency, if everything's all right. So you're predicting a harmonisation amendment. The government has warned that the bill is inconsistent and that is why I ask the Government to prepare a harmonisation amendment. The National Assembly will continue its consideration of this item on Tuesday, 4. 2. 2014, in the context of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Draft Law on the uniform price of the book in the framework of the regular procedure. As no law has been tabled in the second amendment to the amended proposal, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Can we make a decision about the law? We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 25. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're going to break 16. The agenda item is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision:The proposal for a law of amendments and additions to the Law on Property Conversion of Loteria Slovenije is suitable for further consideration Mrs Mateja Pučnik has an explanation for the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u217	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. We will vote in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group against the amendments to this law because we believe that changes do not lead to greater transparency and democraticism in the field of sport. The changes do not lead to the prevention of a monopoly or conflict of interest within the foundation and do not prevent the possibility of corruption in the distribution of lottery money. This is not a few thousand euros, but more than 10 million allocated money per year. This change actually privatises the sport sector in the hands of a narrow sports interest group, which certainly does not benefit sport. We will vote against these amendments to the law and propose that the Government withdraw the law from the next procedure and draw up a law that will actually regulate this area in an integrated and systematic manner, and in particular propose such changes that will continue to prevent any potential for corruption, so that corruption will not only be a matter of speech, but will in fact also reflect this fight against corruption in the laws that are being drawn up in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u218	Thank you, too. Can we make a decision? No, no, no. Another explanation for the voice. In his own name, Mr. Andrej Chuš has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u219	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor, the National Assembly! I think that today, in the course of the discussion on ownership transformation of the Lottery of Slovenia, we have come to realize that the law is non-systemic, is one fire-fighting action on the horror and does not bring what Slovenian sport needs. With this law we only politicize the Sports Foundation, where the monopoly will be obtained by the Olympic Committees of Slovenia. Today I have heard that politics is withdrawing from sport with this law, but given that the monopoly is given to the Olympic Committees of Slovenia, this claim seems very strange to me. Somehow it seems to me that it is easier to win elections in the National Assembly than it is to win elections in the Olympic Committee of Slovenia. Also, a lot of comments on the amendment of the legislation itself have been made by the Commission to prevent corruption, and to be honest, this is not what our sport needs. Former skier Bojan Križaj said in one of the October interviews last year that Slovenian sports die on meals. I'm afraid I have to agree with him. Given that we are talking ourselves about some long-term strategies in sport, we will shortly adopt a resolution, and it seems a little strange to change the members of the Foundation's Council every year. I propose that we reject the proposal in the first reading, sit together and prepare a good law. One such fine example is probably also the passed law on bridging insurance for professional athletes, supported by almost all parliamentary groups, and I think we have a lot more reserves. The Law on Property Transformation of the Lottery of Slovenia only entails corruption risks, the monopoly of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, abolishes the good representation of all sports in the Sports Foundation and brings about the privatisation of sport. The law also does not provide the necessary systemic solutions for Slovenian sport, therefore [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u220	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We vote on the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 29. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 29.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Given that the decision has been adopted, the proposal for a law will be allocated to the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 17th item of the agenda, this is the first consideration of the Bill of Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin is appropriate for further consideration. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The bill will be allocated for consideration to the Committee on Justice as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 19th item of the agenda, this is the proposal for a regulation on the programme for the protection and development of the Škocjanska Cave park for the period 2013-2017. As the amendments to the amended motion for a decision have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a resolution. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, the motion for a decision would not be harmonised. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 55 votes against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue the 21st item of the agenda, which is the Interpellation on the work and responsibilities of the Minister of Infrastructure and Space Sam Omerzel. We're moving on to decision-making. Interpellation candidates propose to the assembly to adopt the following decision following the discussion: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall, on the basis of the interpretation submitted, express its non-trust to the Minister for Infrastructure and Space Sam Omerzel. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 118 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, non-trust ministers will be asked if the majority of all Members and Members vote for it is 46 or more. If an untrustworthy person is voted on, the Minister shall be deemed to have been dismissed. Can we make a decision? Several of you would like to explain your vote, so I invite you to apply for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat will explain his vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u221	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Dear Madame President of the Government! There was a lot of talk yesterday. We have asked many questions, some answers, not all. Not all the ones we've been expecting. I repeat some thoughts from yesterday's debate that it will be easier for you to understand that the Slovenian public will understand why Nova Slovenija will vote in favour of the interpretation or discharge of Minister Sam Omerzel. Perhaps I allow his actions to be part of the law, but we suspect that they were not ethical. And a man, especially a politician, stands and falls on ethics. In view of the fact that the coalition has decided, or at least announced, to support Minister Omerzel, we regret the fall today of Prime Minister Gregor Virant, who says, "in the conduct of politicians, zero tolerance". Zero tolerance. We therefore vote against Mr Minister staying. We therefore vote in favour of interpolation or its resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u222	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, Mrs Saša Kos will explain her vote. Will you be in your own name later? Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, he will explain the vote of the mags. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u223	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Yesterday I spoke for three and a half hours, and in these three and a half hours I proved in four concrete sets with the documents, for the first time that the Minister lied and a lot of information in this Parliament, as recorded by the Magnography of the National Assembly. I cited quotations and cited the facts in documents that speak of the opposite, such as these quotations. In particular, the minister said he would not conclude new contracts if he was elected Minister, he literally said so. Later on, we proved by means of documents that if the media hadn't discovered it in November, at the end of last year, they would have decided- - because he was negotiating and negotiating for a price, two new deals with Dars. Second, the minister acted uneconomically and also acts uneconomically, and this will cost Slovenian taxpayers dearly. He selected an operator for license plates, which was twice as expensive as the world's renowned manufacturer of the same plates, and he should repeat the invitation to tender and not be present. At the same time, the minister swears at a higher price of TES, that is to say Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectric Power Plant, although the conclusions of the National Assembly and the guarantee conditions prevent him from raising the investment by more than EUR 1.3 billion. The Minister deceived members of the National Assembly, lied about the State Defence report. The State Defence report was accessible and should be accessible to members of the National Assembly, he himself said that he did not have the right permissions to do so and that he could not do so It was a clear lie, which was also demonstrated in his communication with the State Defence Office the next day. Your Honor! The fact that a representative of the executive branch of the government who swears in the National Assembly to respect the constitutional order and act for the welfare of this country allows himself to lie and deceive members of the National Assembly, this is unacceptable, respected. At the same time, it is also unacceptable that a person does not distinguish between the performance of a public function in the most important role of the executive branch and between his entrepreneurship and inclinations. Your Honor! If the vote on this interpolation were relatively soon after Mr Omerzel's disclosures, Mr Omerzel would have fallen, as did Minister Stepišnik, who resigned himself. However, since some other sins have been gathered in this coalition, such as Minister Pikalo, such as Minister Jakič, the coalition has decided to cover it. We will support interpellation in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u224	Thank you. Mr Richard Braniselj will explain the vote of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Yesterday we sat all day and actually exchanged arguments, we listened to different interpretations, but we came up with one clear legal and factual situation that must actually guide us to make some conclusions. The interviewer shall make it clear to the Minister that he does not manage the investment in the Termoelectrica Šostanj. On the contrary, it turns out that we have the first minister in this country who actually controls this investment and does everything to bring this investment to an end, and we also reveal everything we need to know in all this. He is a minister who respects the Public Procurement Act and is a minister who has not annulled that public invitation for which you would like to repeal it. And he did it in fact legally and only correctly. He is a minister who eliminates irregularities in schools, who has taken decisive action to remedy all the problems that have accumulated in schools over the years. It establishes a system that will never happen again. He is a minister who ensures that government services and bodies in the composition act smoothly, and he is a minister who has in fact eliminated any form of conflict of interest, as you in fact report to him. And he is a minister who introduces the best practice of a good economist into a state administration where, in fact, such practices are not enough. In the Civil Gazette, we will not support the proposal for a decision on the discharge of the Minister of Infrastructure and Mr Omerzel's premises.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u226	Thank you. Mr Michael Prevc will explain the vote on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u227	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister of the Government, distinguished ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Also in the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the interpretation of Minister Omerzel, although we are not signatories to the request for interpretation. In yesterday's responses to the Minister in the long debate, he did not convince us in any way that there was no irregularity in his recent actions. With more or less replies, he confirmed that, for the first time, the Minister does not separate public and private interests. Second of all, the Minister doesn't respect the law. Thirdly, its decisions to which it has been notified are burdened by signs of corruption. Fourthly, the Minister is in no way mastering the demanding department of the Ministry of Infrastructure. And what we read most about in the Slovenian People's Party is that the Minister reduced the line by one-third in the 2014 budget rebalancing for the reconstruction and maintenance of roads. And six times, the Minister has not given us any strategy on a number of issues as to how many closures and restrictions on bridge facilities will be resolved. And last but not least, after all these recent affairs, the credibility is very questionable and the reputation of the minister is very limited. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the Minister is no longer able to act as Minister of Infrastructure, so we will support the interpellation against the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u228	Thank you, too. The explanation of vote on behalf of the groups of Members has been completed. Mrs Saša Kos had already announced that she wants to explain her voice in her own name and I give her my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u229	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Nice greetings to all present! I will vote against the interpretation. I was not convinced by the impressions given by the motioners in the interpretation to the Minister. More. On the contrary, the Minister is the first minister to face the challenges of the investment TES 6 openly, and I must admit, he is the first minister to pour us all pure wine on the investment itself. I can also add that the Minister, with his work, has proved himself to the company he runs, or a man who is capable of running a company like him in the past, I think he is capable of running a ministry, as he runs it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u230	Thank you, too. I think there is still an interest in explanation of vote, so I invite you to apply for explanations of vote. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u231	Havela beautiful. Colleagues and colleagues, ministerial team with the president of the government! I will also support the interpretation because the Minister did not answer my questions yesterday, nor did he clearly have that purpose. At the time of the transfer of a maintenance worker from Tames, who also mounted thirty stations and brought them to Slovenia and had maintenance of €15 000 in 2007, this maintenance already cost €186,000, in 2009 128, 2010 104, from 7 to 14 times more than before. Clearly, Tames had to be eliminated because he was doing it for the money he needed. As far as tolerance is concerned, I've already said that tolerance is or is not. It's nothing. Tolerance is between 0 and 100%. For some, tolerance is nothing if it's those who are not ours, then tolerance is nothing. Of course, tolerance is obviously 100% when it comes to those who come from the common nest of Zares – Minister, President of the Government and so on. You can afford anything they want, whatever they want. They say one thing, they do the other. I will also support the interpolation because the Minister is not concerned about the construction of the road or is not prepared to even talk about the railway Prague-Hodoš. Here is a considerable suspicion of the corruption of some employees at the Ministry of Transport and of course the concealment of their own interests.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u232	Thank you. Mr Aljoša Jerič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u233	Thank you very much. In the interpretation, Minister Sam Omerzel has been given specific details of the infringements, the findings and the facts. Let's see. He's been told that he's failed to do business and ownership and missed the deadline for the KPK report. In a public hearing, the Minister made it clear where he came from that he owned the company, what he was dealing with and also that there was a business relationship between the company and Dars. It is true that he missed the deadline of the KPK, and I myself at the time of the appointment of the Member almost missed this deadline, and this is on the one hand one of these tasks, when you become a Member or Minister, when you are faced with a whole bunch of new functions, with a completely different rhythm and work, so it is also human in some way. I see nothing malicious here, because all this information, which then belongs to the report, has been made public by the Minister himself at the hearing. Then, with regard to the disclosure of the intended signature of the contract of continuation of business with Dars, we can speculate that this signature did not take place because it came to the media in due time. However, the Minister's company has not entered into new contracts, and thus the Minister's commitment at the hearing to not conclude new contracts still exists. With regard to the infringement of the initiation of the procedure for the appointment of Director Gurs, it should be noted that during this period the government and Parliament have worked intensively on one of the major system laws of this mandate, namely the property tax. Mr Seliškar, as a good expert on both the Gurs system and the records, was extremely important in the drafting of this law, so that I consider the agreement that Mr Seliškar's status should still be maintained until this law and the adoption of the property tax as a proper decision. Similar Observations [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u234	Thank you. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Yesterday's interpolation results weren't discarded. More. They were further strengthened, and some of the violations of the law were admitted by the minister himself, so it is logical that we will today, and so will I personally support this resolution. Yesterday, the debate highlighted new facts which are documented and which further justify the eligibility of interpolation. It has been shown that the Minister did not overlook the provisions of the law on integrity and the prevention of corruption on the basis of his company's application to the list of companies which are not allowed to operate with the State, but left the act with a deliberate mind. Letter from his company Darsu dated 3. 12. In 2013 it is said that the suspension of cooperation is due to the fact that the Minister's company was placed on the list of companies which are not allowed to operate with entities that are committed to public procurement at the end of November 2013 – and Dars is committed to public procurement. Nor did the Minister explain how it could be that, in 2008, when an invitation to tender was issued on Dars in November, in December the contract was signed, in December, an invoice for the services provided for 7 months ago, for the period from May, therefore, for the period when it had not yet been in any business relationship with Dars. He didn't get the other readings, either. Not one. More. He was once again caught up in lying about the behaviour of the state of the school because we presented two letters to him from the Council of the Public Transport Safety Agency, dated 23. 4 and 10 Seven. 2013 which addressed it personally and which describes the report on the activities of the Police and the Public Agency for Transport Safety in this field. Until yesterday, they were the problems of Minister Omerzel. As of today, this will become a government issue with the support of the coalition. The government therefore supports fraud, undermines lies and supports violations of anti-corruption legislation. If the President of the Government, Mrs Alenka Bratušek, is not capable of moving at his own doorstep, then he will not be in front of others either.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u236	Thank you. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u237	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mike Wickett said, "The charge is like living sand. You're getting deeper and deeper into the living sand of accusation." Of course, it is good to help yourself with some universal principles. If you have noticed, I did not attend yesterday's debate, but I have closely followed the arguments for and against. I'm not going to comment, but I feel it's my duty to draw attention to one another. Interestingly, former Minister Stank Stepišnik is not here. He had a similar case, a coalition forced him to resign and we gave him five minutes to tell him what he had done in eight months. You know, guilt hurts. It hurts him and it hurts me. For the same actions, this national assembly should have the same criteria. We're not capable of what's in the background, and I'm not gonna sell it out. Time will tell. But at least we did wrong to Mr Stepišnik. And if we used a decision like that for him, we should do the same in this case or apologize to him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u238	Thank you. Can we make a decision? Not yet. Please sign up for an explanation of vote in your personal name. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u239	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everyone. Honourable President, Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Ministerial Assembly, Colleagues and Colleagues! Yesterday we discussed for a long time, and throughout the debate we found that all the facts that we mentioned in the interpretation were true. With no response, the minister rejected these facts. On the contrary, as has been said, the first two violations that we read to him are integrity and some general ethical code that you all advocate in the coalition has become even more engrossed in what is apparently best known in recent times, and this is the deceiving of this National Assembly. This was proved by a number of magnetograms that I'm not going to read now, he didn't throw it away, not one. He did not, in a single word, reject the deception he had afforded at the hearing, nor did he respond to the documentary evidence that we have presented and have asked in concrete terms ten times or more in particular about the particular case. I think it was one of the few interpretations where the minister didn't want to answer any questions. If this government and these ministers represent the attitude towards the National Assembly in this way, then I don't think it shows us well. As I said yesterday, the Minister has also disappointed me on this purely human side, because it is unworthy for 90 Members to be dealing with a matter, even if some of them seem to be more grey-haired, but we are therefore Members of the National Assembly to ask questions, and this is the basic task that we have. If we have ministers in the ministerial assembly who do not want to answer, they have no place in this area, so I will support the interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u240	Thank you, too. There's still an interest in explaining the voice. Mr. Jože Tanko. There's more of you. I suggest you sign up for an explanation of vote. Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u241	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support the interpretation because the Minister has not been able to deny, reject any claim from our request for interpretation. He did not reject any documented evidence that we presented regarding his business with Dars, nor did he reject what we had read to him about his intention to do business with Dars. Even more. A document signed by the director of his company, Weber, placed it exclusively on a lie about the claim of intent to conclude a deal with Dars. Even in the absence of Franc Pojbič at the head of the agency, the minister apparently lied ecclatanally. It is obvious, however, that these ethical criteria and ethical principles of the coalition are similar to that of the windmill, which is actually turned by each sapica within the coalition. These criteria are deformed from case to case. It is clear that there are significant differences between the high words of the coalition and the very prominent records in coalition agreements and laws concerning integrity and those decided by the coalition in specific cases. It's diametrical contravention. So it's obviously happening that individuals are in the coalition, that's what the ministers of the coalition are called, the holy cow. It is therefore worth supporting this interpellation to ensure that everyone is equal before the law, including the code, the rules you write down in the coalition contract and in the laws that they are all the same for all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u242	Thank you, too. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u243	Surely, it would be most correct for Minister Omerzel to offer his own resignation and thus burden many coalition Members who will certainly press the key with a heavy heart today, otherwise than in his own conscience. Yesterday's debate has in fact proved such well-founded arguments that we should be sufficient for everyone to give up, or also to us Members, in order to get rid of them. In my parliamentary career, I have witnessed many interpretations, and this one, I can say, is the most clear and understandable, mainly supported by evidence. Not to mention the decision that he has given, although it now fits the legitimate invitation to tender, the production of license plates to domestic companies, and the foreign would have made these plates twice as high as our users of these tables, much tells us how little he cares about the Slovenian use of these tables, because someone else will pay for it as our users of these tables. That's why I think it's irresponsible to say that he acted legally. If we remember how we removed the so-called stickers in the 2004-2008 mandate by amending the legislation and how it was clearly illegal and what compensation there will be, it has proven to be more than justifiable. That is why, of course, I will now support this interpellation, and I hope that there will be more than 46 votes, which will suffice for the Minister to be resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u244	Thank you, too. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u245	Honourable Presidents, Government Assembly, colleagues and colleagues! Dear Minister, I only asked you one question yesterday, but unfortunately I also did not get a full answer to that one question of mine. Mr. Minister, I don't think you're aware that you're working for the entire area as well as the Ministry of Disability alone. With such credulity, so low integrity, and so low credibility, this demanding resource will be very difficult or impossible to manage. Or in modern times, we can afford the disability of an area as important as yours and let each one judge for himself.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u246	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Yesterday's debate on the legality of the Minister's work and the consistency of his conduct with integrity began with the threat of the President of the Government that only those Members who will be able to discuss this issue can discuss the issue before their own threshold. This was an outrageous accusation by Members that they were corrupt, for which the Prime Minister had not yet apologized. In this way, I do not want the Prime Minister to protect a minister who has apparently acted unlawfully and against the principles of the Integrity Act. And I certainly do not want the whole government to act in such a way that public funds are treated like a pig with a moss. In view of the fact that some may cover from public funds in such a way as to conclude a contract with a State or with a public undertaking and, after one month, to issue an invoice for seven months. We're not gonna get this country out of the mud. If not the other, it should be the principle that it cannot be done. However, it is obvious that the Prime Minister supports this treatment of the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u248	You, too. Mr Darko Jazbec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u249	Thank you for your word. I'm not going to support the interpretation because I listened to the debate on interpolation. Half the readings went directly to the Minister himself, and all of this was good with arguments rejected, but half of the readings went essentially to the functioning of the former government. To interpret the current opposition now, that doesn't make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u250	Thank you, too. Can we make a decision? Not yet. Since there are more of you, please apply for explanations of vote. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u251	Yes, thank you very much. Look, today is a special day. It is true that we have received one snowy day, but it is also the day of some pardons, pardons. That's what I'd say. Minister, I, all I can tell you, I will not go into any of these things, I would be able to tell you, above all, a great deal of negligence in the invitation to tender for license plates, because every citizen of these citizens, when they go to register on their new vehicle or change license plates, will remember why these plates are not at least 10 Euros cheaper. That's where they'll remember you. On each chart, it will be possible to say that Omerzel could not even cancel the invitation to tender so that he could choose the one who would be the cheapest. It's such a small thing, but people remember things after that. Look, on the other hand, whether you can, and I, as a politician, as a public official, will take a breath today. Firstly, the era of so-called zero tolerance has ended, according to Mr Virant. Once again, we can breathe freely as Members, as officials, including those on the call for proposals. Again, this Balkan mentality, which we have in ourselves in part, has loosened and we have relaxed. That's the positive thing, that's the positive thing, that I'm not kind of tight anymore, that I'm not careful, and that's important. Look, second time, you don't have to be afraid. If we have a defence minister here who opposed the defense of this country in 1991, then the defence minister can be if we have someone who received a replacement after the end of his post who had more income than the President of the Government and the State, then you don't have to be afraid. You don't have to be afraid. Today is the day of forgiveness. I'm not going to tell you anything else. Have a good time. Keep moving forward. You don't have to be afraid of anything in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u252	Thank you. Mr Jerko Čehovin has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u253	Thank you, Mr. President. I will not support the interpretation, for the reason that we lost two days at this so-called parliamentary loser who had his general last Friday when we discussed the TEC, who could use them more usefully for something else. According to the content, 90% of us talked about Sam Omerzel as an entrepreneur, and we talked about what the previous governments had left behind, what the previous governments had not done. 10% spoke on the Minister's work in his department. Of course, we have heard about the sand in our eyes, and this flour will not be bread and gypsies and everything else, but how the Prime Minister should work and so on. One really lost day. The second thing that really bothered me was that part of the policy showed that successful people in this country were not desirable. Whoever has successfully done something, especially in the public sector, is not welcome in politics. That was very clear to see. That is why I think that after this interpretation, the Minister must actually focus his action on the real problems of this country and his ministry, and I wish him good luck in doing so.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u254	Thank you. There's a Master Andrey Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u255	Your Honor! We told a lot of facts yesterday. I would only mention one thing because I believe that none of the members of the government have heard it, because, as the Minister has deceived us, it is probably them. Look, the minister admitted that he did not tell his own ministry that he owns 100 % of the company of Lastinski to report this link to the anti-corruption Commission. In response to what the Government has accepted or has become aware of, the Minister said that he had received from the KPK Senate a position that Lastinski could also operate with Dars because it is a matter of independence and that there is no problem. That's what the minister said, and that's what the minister wrote in his reply. However, the Minister did not say that the director of the company Lastinski sent a letter to Darsa, which we showed yesterday, I can go look for him, that in this letter he wrote that the company Lastinski was included on a list of companies which are not allowed to operate with Darsa or with legal entities that are committed to public procurement. Therefore, Lastinski should not operate and should not operate on the first day if the Minister should notify his Ministry and the Ministry of Justice in time to the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. However, he was competing last year for business at Darsa, the same company. You probably didn't know that because you trusted the minister who wrote in his reply to the interpretation that Lastinsky could also do business with Darsa. This is simply not true because this is denied by the letter from the director of the company Lastinski. So, respectable, such deceptions, such lies, in fact, that have serious consequences, we have heard a lot from the minister. God help us if we have such ministers in the future. I myself was twice a minister, I take interpellation very seriously, it is not about any political "fight". This is about serious signs that need to be kept. And I've documented everything. I've got these documents. If anyone from the government is interested, I can show them to him. I'd like you to believe the facts, not the beliefs.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u256	Thank you. Mr. Richard Braniselj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u257	Dear colleagues! Look, there's another detail that shows that we can't support this interpretation. My colleague Visjak had been translating a package of papers and drawing some inspiration from these papers all day and referring to these papers. I think that, for the first time, it's not right, it was documentation that was only known to you, which was not on the network, it wasn't distributed to us, it wasn't an attachment to interpretation. This documentation, although you say it is not supposed to have some degree of secrecy, probably falls into Dars under some kind of rules on handling such documents. I wonder on this spot what legal path this documentation came from the state firm Dars and who could take care of this documentation. But it's one big opportunity. Next week, in this National Assembly, we are discussing the law on access to information of a public nature. However, when this documentation is made publicly available to all, then we can all get to know this documentation together. So, at this point, you're obviously the only one with the privilege of getting this documentation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u258	Thank you, too. Can we make a decision? Procedurally has the word mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u259	Your Honor! Mr Braniselj, in fact, instead of explaining his voice, expressed a series of attacks on me. Not only did he even tell me that in some way he shouldn't have forwarded certain documents and wondered where I got this documentation from. It is said, receive him who comes with evidence, not the one against whom these evidences are directed. That's right. These evidences, Mr Braniselj, are probably repugnant and that is why you do not want to see them, and, Mr President, I have made public here as a speaker in the introduction to the presentation that I have these papers, I have not copied them, because I also do not want to burden the costs of the National Assembly, they are available to everyone to look at them. Yeah, but don't you remember we had an entire copy circus and a number of copies a while ago? So the papers, Mr. Braniselj, are forever available, and Mr. Möderndorfer said yesterday where these papers were to be seen, after the meeting I wanted to give them to him [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u260	Vizjak, you'll have to say it on a procedural basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u261	Come, come, Mr. President, don't worry. I offered these papers to Mr. Möderndorfer at the end of the meeting. He didn't want them. He said he didn't care. Here, to the public, you're acting like you're curious, but you're not really, because you know how to support it. Dear President, I have a procedural proposal, if you allow us to burden the photocopying machines in this House, I am happy to give this to your services to copy all these documents, only I think it will be completely irrelevant, because today the believers will press the button, so these evidence will obviously be irrelevant and even less necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u262	Thank you. I do not think it will be necessary to implement this procedural proposal in order to reproduce this document at this time. I think that the arguments put forward and the answers given in the debate have been enough for us to decide today without this division of the document. Procedurally, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u263	Dear President, here we always experience a kind performance of this side on the left in order to bring about this remarkable abuse of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Vizjak is in his known element and character, and that is, whenever, anyone, whatever he says about him, or even proves it, he misuses the rules of procedure. We have a problem because, Mr. President, you're always waiting until the end. My procedural proposal is that we start to apply the rules of procedure. Until he tells us what the rules of procedure are. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Visjak, I believed you were good at manners. This is my suggestion that, in the spirit of this Rules of Procedure, you always call on the National Assembly if you see that this is more than an obvious abuse of the Rules of Procedure. However, because he was so rude that he misused the procedural proposal to report to me personally that I did not accept his documents, I will use this opportunity to answer back. Mr Vizjak, when you begin to use the Rules of Procedure and prepare the interpretation by submitting the document together at the time of the interpretation, I will also respect your documents. But your way is to give the media the documents first, then you apologize to the media for getting the documents in the media, and in the end you can't really explain how you got the documents. But that's always typical of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u264	Thank you. The fact is that Mr Vizjak has made a procedural proposal. It is true that the time to explain the procedural proposal is available for three minutes. The difference between what you are proposing, Mr Möderndorfer, in your proposal, is only that perhaps this proposal would have been submitted in the first place, but I assure you that then in the next two and a half minutes the explanation of this procedural proposal would follow. The Rules of Procedure are clear here, the time is fixed if we agree, I have no objection to reducing the time to submit a procedural proposal, for a possible minute, and then there will be fewer explanations that may even deviate in this direction, as you have rightly found that he has also mentioned you in this procedural proposal, which is of course not appropriate. In this way, I note that this procedural proposal too will not be able to be applied unless we change the rules of procedure. We proceed with the explanation of vote. Some have been announced before, so I invite you to apply for explanations of vote. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u265	Thank you for your word. I will vote in favour of interpolation. At the same time, it will be my voice against this duality, which is present here today by the current coalition. Actually, I'd like to remind you where the foundation is. This coalition has taken power on the basis of a structure for the pursuit of corruption. And this structure, by the way, today in Finland came off like this. I'm sorry, but try to be as smart as possible. What's very interesting is this. There was no need for any evidence at the time, no need to wait for anyone to submit any documentation, a rumor that was spreading. Yesterday and today, the material was presented by Mr Visiak, and also Mr Cernac showed some things that directly pointed to some corrupt actions by one of the ministers of this government, and all the coalition unitedly supports it. And let anyone else say that this is not a coalition of holy duality. And of course, all believers of holy duality and corruption will be supported by the minister today. I won't do it myself. I'll vote for his release.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u266	Thank you. Can we make a decision? I note that there are no further applications for explanations of vote, so we are moving on to a decision on the decision that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of the interpretation tabled, gives an untrustworthy statement to the Minister of Infrastructure and Space Sam Omerzel. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 47. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I find that the Minister for Infrastructure and Space Sam Omerzel has not been voted on. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to break the 7th item of the agenda, this is the third consideration of the Energy Law proposal. Because the government is on Tuesday, 28. 1. 2014, warned that after the third hearing due to the amendments adopted, the proposal for the law was not harmonised, the Government prepared the harmonisation amendment you received on the e-club. Does the representative of the Government want to speak about the harmonisation amendment? Would you like to present the harmonisation amendment? I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Mr Kumr.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u267	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! With the harmonisation amendment, the Government wants to eliminate the nomotechnic mismatch created by the submission of amendments to the second and third readings in the National Assembly. The disagreement arose after an anomaly in the marriage was discovered and the amendment was removed, and in the meantime, due to a large number of amendments, this nomotechnicality was then snuck into the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u268	Thank you, too. Anyone want to discuss the harmonisation amendment? I note that there are no applications for debate, so I am concluding the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the government's harmonisation amendment. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. Can we make a decision? Mr Daniel Krivec has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u269	Thank you for your word. We have before us the approval of a law with which we have done a great deal of work, especially in the work of our mother, as well as in the National Assembly. In the end, the majority felt that marriage was not good. You all recognise this, or more outside the official work, but this is how the general position is between all the parliamentary groups. The original sin stems from the fact that we have brought this law through an emergency procedure and that is why everything is now a headache. If the law were to be enforced in a normal manner, all those inconsistencies and inconsistencies, as well as the problems that would later prove to be in practice, would also be corrected through a longer debate and drafted by a law that would be at least to some extent consistent with all stakeholders and which would probably be supported by all the members. An excuse for directives that bind us and which impose some penalties on us if we do not prepare certain legal materials, I do not think it is an excuse. Last but not least, this law brings many new bureaucratic obstacles and unnecessary procedures. Most agree. There are also certain solutions that speak of a system operator, and I do not think that they are in line with the majority opinion of this national assembly and not with the expertise. Above all, there will be a problem that you all perceive in the field of energy cards, where a number of efforts have been made primarily on our part to improve this segment, which is very much covered within this law. But there was no listening, and now you all admit that we have made a lot of trouble in this area or, if I say so, a mistake that will eventually strike taxpayers or those who will implement this law in practice. The agency that we have defined in this law also has certain problems that will appear mainly in the part where there are too many powers through the law, for which the Law-Legal Service also states that they are to some extent outside the constitutional framework and that therefore a constitutional assessment of these articles is likely to be necessary. Other solutions, which are also close to maintaining a constitutional judgment, will cause this law to be likely to remain in drawers or formal decisions for some time, only because it is the desire for such extensive matter to be adopted by emergency procedure rather than by normal procedure. We in the parliamentary group of this law [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u270	Thank you. Mr Bevk has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u271	Thank you for your word, Mr. President, the well-respected assembly. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the energy law. We have put forth great effort and work to adopt one of the most complex laws and even the most extensive in this mandate of the National Assembly. I also think that we have caught the last train if the energy law is adopted today, and I think that we will avoid paying very drastic penalties for the delay in implementing the European Union directives. We know that we should pay up to 20,000 euros a day. Of course, there may also be a matter that remains open. There's been a lot of talk lately about energy cards. We have devoted a great deal to this problem, many amendments have been adopted on this subject, we have also introduced a one-year moratorium, and I think we will be able to think carefully about all the nuances and possibly make some other decisions at that time. Otherwise, the Group of Social Democrats will support the energy law. But to all of you who have participated in the work of the committee, I thank you very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u272	Thank you. Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? No, no, no. We are moving on to an explanation of vote on our own behalf. Mr. Joseph Kavticnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Indeed, the law was dealt with in the National Assembly in an urgent way, but it was because the former government had failed to do its work. That's what we need to know. However, when I listened to the discussions on the comments made by this law, I realized that the law was very extensive, which makes it less transparent. However, since we do not have a revised energy programme, such a law certainly makes sense. It is not happy, but we have pointed out this in both the Member State and other Member States, this energy card. I'm sure that this decision is a moratorium here and that it leaves room and time for the matter to be settled, the right one. Why licenses? About 150 people are licensed if they left it to designers, which 5,000 would also be significantly different. And you could still say it here. I will therefore, of course, support this law with the conviction that more will be done in the field of energy certificates for our citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u274	Thank you. There's still magic to explain the voice. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u275	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Look, I don't think the laws that put an extra burden on our economy and our population should be passed by us, I'm sorry. Wages are falling, unemployment is increasing, standards are lower, and we are still imposing. The law has about five hundred pages, ladies and gentlemen. In addition, there is documentation on the energy card, which has about half of it. We have even more types of energy cards, measured and accounting, and of course it is wrong, colleagues and colleagues, to make a new layer of paide capitalists. In this way, once again, the special layer that has been chosen by this law will have to work on the basis of the adopted law. That's not right. And you know what else bothers me? Look, for comparison. In Austria, when they passed the law that registration plates should be replaced, they drove those plates for ten, twenty years. And we say, for a period of time, all old buildings must now have, as well as new ones. That would be acceptable if you told me that old buildings are what they are, they'll be repaired, for new ones. But we're going to extremes, we're burdening, we're complicated, we're bureaucratizing, and again, our good minister, who's been fighting bureaucracy for ten years, is going to come and say how we've been doing everything to reduce red tape. It's not true at all! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u276	Thank you. Mr Zvonko Černač has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u277	First of all, because Mr Kavticnik said that the previous government had not done its work. This National Assembly and the current coalition rejected not the energy law in spring 2013, but a novelty of the energy law, which went primarily towards compliance with European Union law. So that's when you turned it down, and it's unfair to say something you don't. Then the current minister took into account the 2011 law, which is the Law of Kopač, which was then in public debate, in the summer of 2011, if you go Google, you will still get it on the website, and this is also stated in the explanation of the law that this debate was a little smaller since then in the summer of 2011 until September there was a broad public debate on the energy law. Then the current ministry of this matter has repaired and improved to a certain extent, turned the most into a sky-breathing case, and the law could be good and appropriate if it does not have some completely unnecessary bureaucratic regulations that irritate individual procedures, particularly regarding energy cards, people, the economy, public spheres, municipalities, institutions and everything else. If this regulation in this field of energy cards, because it is an administrative charter, is simpler, simpler, then the cost of producing this document, which unfortunately the buildings must have or will need to have, substantially, substantially lower. At least five to ten times. Given the regulation in this law, of course this will not be the case, and this is one of the key arguments, in addition to those mentioned by Comrade Krivec in the position of the Group of Members, which is why I will not support this law or vote against it myself. Which is a great shame because with little effort this law could be adopted unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u278	Thank you. Can we make a decision? I note that there are no applications for explanations of vote, so we are voting on the law as a whole. We're voting. 74 Members and Members present. 44 votes against 25. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the 21st assembly meeting, which we'll resume tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you for today and goodbye tomorrow.
