ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 24th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Member: Mrs Irena Tavčar, Mrs Iva Dimic from 12 noon and from 18:00 onwards, Mrs Alenka Pavlič, mag. Barbara Zgeiner, mag. Matthew Tonin by 5 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments to and additions to the excise duty law as required. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Matthew Vraničar, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u2	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Members and Members of Parliament! The amendment in force of the Act deals with legislation adopted at European Union level, increases excise duties on tobacco products, eliminates the refund or exemption of part of excise duty on biofuels added to fossil fuels, regulates the dosage of excise duty on natural gas and introduces control of lubricating oils. The excise measures proposed by this Act provide for an increase in the revenue of the state budget of €31 million in 2014 and an additional €24 million in 2015. A little more detail about the individual elements of the bill. The bill raises the excise duty on cigarettes from 101 euros to 106 euros by 1,000 pieces of cigarettes from the weighted average retail price of cigarettes. For fine-cut tobacco, the applicable excise duty of EUR 75 per kilogram is increased, while the structure of taxation is changed, so that it is paid in part in the absolute amount of EUR 40 per kilogram, while at the same time 35% of the retail price. The purpose of the increase and the revised structure of taxation of fine-cut tobacco for the rolling of cigarettes is to ensure that the level of the burden follows an increase in the taxation of cigarettes. It is clear from the data that fine-cut tobacco for the rolling of cigarettes is becoming a substitute for cigarettes that have already been extracted. The excise duty on cigars and cigarillos shall be increased from 5 % to 6 % of the retail selling price and shall at the same time set a minimum threshold of EUR 20, the minimum amount to be reached by the debtor for 1000 pieces of that product. There is also an increase in excise duty for other tobacco, which is pipe tobacco, from EUR 20 to EUR 40 per kilogram. The bill removes the possibility of repayment or exemption for the payment of excise duty on biofuels added to fossil fuels. For fossil fuels to which biofuels are added, the final buyer pays the full price, without reduced excise duty, so the difference between full excise duty and the exemption from payment of part of the excise duty for the added biofuel shall be maintained by the distributor of the fuel. Fuel is sold as a fossil fuel without the indication that biofuels have been added to it. Pure biofuels maintain the excise duty rate nothing. The third amendment introduced by the draft law is that the draft law transposes into the Slovenian legal order a Council directive regulating the change in the situation of the French territory of Mayotte in relation to the European Union. Furthermore, the law simplifies administrative arrangements for calculating the excise duty on natural gas supplied by pipelines. This creates an obligation to calculate the excise duty by subtracting natural gas from the transmission or distribution network. To date, natural gas suppliers had to act in accordance with the rules on the storage of natural gas in excise warehouses by accounting for excise duty at the time when the gas was released from the excise warehouse. However, due to the specificity of the energy supply, this arrangement has proved to be inappropriate. The new regime is comparable or equivalent to the electricity regime. And the last change. The amendment establishes control over the movement, storage and use of lubricating oils, which can also be used to drive duty-free. The control of these products is intensified as it has in practice proved to be an option of systemic avoidance of excise duty. Ladies and gentlemen, we propose that you both support the proposal for a law in the second and third readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u3	Thank you, too. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the draft law to be a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Bojan Starman, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice hello to you all! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 90th emergency meeting, on 16. 4. 2014 as a parent working body treated the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on excise duties, urgent procedure [[EPA 1900-VI]] proposed by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 93rd session. 4. 2014 decided that the proposal for a law should be considered on an urgent basis. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which made specific comments to Articles 3, 4, 5, 7 and 10 of the draft law. The Committee was also given the opinion of the State Council, which supports the bill with reservations, and the opinion of the Chamber of Commerce and Chamber of Slovenia. The amendments to the bill were tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups to Articles 3, 4, 7, 8, 9 and 10 and by the SDS Group to Articles 3, 5, 7 and 9. Representatives of the Government, the State Council, the Chamber of Commerce and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. We have heard an explanation for the purpose of amending the Law on Excise. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said, as reflected in the proposal for a written opinion, which had been forwarded, that she could confirm that the amendments tabled followed the opinion of the Office. The representative of the Council of State presented the written opinion of the Council of State, which supports the bill with reservation and drew attention to the amendment of the State Council to Article 5 of the bill. There was much discussion about whether an urgent procedure was needed. It has been pointed out that raising excise duties does not necessarily mean higher revenues for the state budget, there is a more grey market, and thus, at higher consumption, we achieve lower sales and lower revenues in the budget, as the gray market is increasing. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service also presented a written opinion and advocated at least a gradual introduction of the reduction in the share of biofuels in fuel engines. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted amendments to Articles 3, 4, 7, 8, 9 and 10. However, it did not accept the SDS amendments to Articles 3 and 5. However, the amendments of the SDS to Articles 7 and 9 have become irrelevant. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which we propose to be adopted by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u5	Thank you, too. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Marija Plevčak will present the position of the Ambassador of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u6	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to all present. The Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will fully support the proposed amendment of the Law on Excise. The fact is that the real estate law has recently fallen, the fact is that such a decision by the Constitutional Court amounts to a drop of EUR 200 million and the fact is that this budget deficit needs to be replaced by new revenues or by a reduction in budgetary expenditure. The government's first reaction was to raise general and specific tax rates, VAT. Let me say that Members of the Democratic Party of pensioners do not favour an annual increase in VAT. Why? Because VAT is exactly the kind of tax that touches each individual. In doing so, it should be pointed out that VAT is the most burdensome of the social weakest strata with the lowest income. Therefore, in the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we are more inclined to consider the proposed solution, the increase in excise products. Tobacco products and alcohol are certainly not included in the basic necessities of life. We can talk about luxury goods, but they also have a detrimental effect on human health. It is also true that we have had some concerns in the direction of accepting this novel. As I have already mentioned, the Government has only approached the drafting of this proposal for the purpose of filling the budget register, not as a result of an in-depth analysis of the harmful health effects of these products. True, the following reason is found in the explanation: public health care. That is why we appeal to the Government, and above all to the Ministry of Finance, to place this large amount of excise duty directly on the Ministry of Health, one of the most disadvantaged areas. In this way, a substantial amount of necessary money would be raised for investments in hospitals, for a large number of doctors, and for the health care of citizens and citizens in general. Whether the government's assessment that this novelty will contribute 55 million budgetary resources is realistic or whether it is justified to fear the opposition that the level of excise duty has already exceeded the threshold when it comes to retroactive effect, that is to say to reduce the consumption of these products and thus reduce the revenue to the budget, we do not want to speculate at this point, but we believe that this will turn out very quickly. However, since it is necessary to fill the budget gap and consolidate the public finances at this time because of the decision of the higher instance, we will contribute our votes in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners to the adoption of this novel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Madam Secretary of State with co-workers! Today's bill on amendments and additions to the Law on excise duty is another in a series of measures taken by the current government to fill the budget with additional burdens on the population, in particular, which we are most concerned about, the economy. It could be said, if I may use the PM's vocabulary, that this is another in a series of measures for the complete sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia or a correctional examination under the fiasco of the Real Estate Tax Act. The government's attempt to balance public finances seeks to provide only with taxes, i.e. with new or higher resources on the revenue side, while there are in fact no real measures on the expenditure side in recent months that would reduce budgetary expenditure. This fact certainly reflects the situation in the current coalition, which is obviously unable to agree on any and absolutely no reform measures. Instead of taking the necessary systemic measures, the coalition deals with itself or with the internal problems of the largest coalition party. We wonder where is the commitment of the current coalition to a large proportion of the measures to balance public finances on the expenditure side. Remember that relationship, one-third to two-thirds. How is it possible that a coalition Civil Code, which was publicly declared by the President a few days ago, did not consent to the new taxes, has contributed to the increase of excise duties? This is how the words of coalition politicians are swallowed up and the welfare of citizens and citizens is consumed. The Coalition promises measures to revive economic growth, but it takes just the opposite decisions that stifle the economy. The increase in fuel excise duties is one of the measures taken by the Government a few days ago, which means for energy-intensive industries additional burdens, in particular for exporters. But most of all, raising excise duties will burden a small economy. In particular, the impact includes processing activities, carriers and innkeepers. Guests point to the expected heavy drop in traffic, which will result in an inevitable rise in the price of alcoholic beverages due to an increase in excise duties. With the increasing unemployment and poor purchasing power of the population, this will also result in the closure of a variety of restaurants or even activities. The Christian Democrats of New Slovenia would like to point out that the increase in excise duties does not necessarily mean an increase in the budget inflows under this heading. It is necessary to calculate the reduction in the sales of excise goods and the outflow of customers abroad. There will also be an increase in the grey market for alcohol and tobacco. That's an indisputable fact. As a result, the inflows to the excise budget will remain at the current level or even fall. It is the belief of the Christian Democrats of New Slovenia that instead of raising direct and indirect taxes, among which we include excise duties, the government should finally go to the expenditure sides for fiscal consolidation, not only through short-term taxes, but in particular through structural measures. Public sector rationalisation, health reform and more effective surveillance of the grey and black market will require significant reductions in public financial expenditure. Members of the New Slovenia Group, for all the reasons listed above, will not support or vote against the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on excise duties.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr Aloj Potočnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u10	Your Honor! In each tax debate, the issue of the eligibility of taxes is urgently raised first. The countries represent income, but they do at the same time reduce the economic power and benefits of individuals and businesses. From here, the first question is how does the state justify tax collection. There are more views on the eligibility of taxes. Lately, a theory of tax reproduction has been established that puts a demand for reasonable tax consumption at the forefront, meaning a circular process. The State must use tax money productively, i.e. only for the benefit of citizens or the state. The reason for the novel is primarily completely fiscal. There's no doubt about that. Following the fall of the real estate tax, the Government has taken or proposed additional measures to achieve the permissible budgetary deficit. These are in short: the increase or suspension of exemptions or reductions in excise duties, and the higher estimated financial impact of dividend income, in particular on participation in the profits of enterprises and financial institutions, is the third to increase the efficiency of the recovery of public benefits and not least to rationalise the business of direct and direct users. These measures, which are therefore only one of them, provide conditions for a stable achievement of the objective of the gradual balancing of public finances in the short term. The Group of the Positive Slovenia understands the objective as a commitment. The debate often raised the question of why excise duties. It has been set up and commented on even by politicians, those who know well that excise duties are the most frequently used type of tax, in situations where there is a need for additional budgetary revenue when justified. Not a need, of course, but a legitimate and reasonable one. For excise duties are among the more reliable types of taxes and because of the high inelasticity of demand, they create a relatively small excess tax burden. The cost of collection is low and can be effectively applied to the principle of benefit or damage prevention. Here I am thinking about environmental and health impacts or effects. And by the way, I'm not talking about "loveliness" blindly. The government has set up a excise law before Parliament twice in one year. Government before her in three years five times. For various reasons and content, of course. I'm not even talking about the regulations that followed. While there will be no misunderstanding, I must point out that we are facing a crisis and a delay in recovery, which is now showing up, this must be stressed, with a markedly low ability to generate public financial revenues. However, what is crucial is that we do not increase by amending the law on the total volume of public financial revenues planned in the 2014 budget. The Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia will support the law. Not a little of the cynical amendments to the amended proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u11	Thank you. Mag. Andrej Šircelj will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u12	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State with colleagues and coworkers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We will not support and oppose excise duties in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We also do not support the abolition of the work of excise duties on fossil fuels. The reasons are real, the reasons are economic and the reasons are financial, and not least political, especially in the sense that the President of the Government said in her next speech that she would work for the benefit of people, and also later that she would not increase taxes. But he does exactly the opposite of what he means in other words — something he says, something he does. Of course, this must certainly be seen in voters and voters. The economic sense of the increase in excise duty and the financial sense of the increase in excise duty — do they actually exist? The sale of tobacco products in Slovenia has fallen by 15% year-on-year. On the other hand, undeclared imports are increasing or actual consumption of tobacco products is increasing, meaning, in other words, that cigarettes are smoked, which are not paid for either excise duty or value added tax in the Slovenian budget. Tax or excise duty may be paid in another budget, the budget of the border states, as prices are more favourable there. As a result, excise revenue falls into the state budget. Does it make sense to increase excise duty in order to actually contribute more to other budgets, assuming that the sale of tobacco products due to rising prices in Slovenia will fall further? Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think so. And I hope they know what they're doing. I hope they know what the financial sense of excise duty is, and that the financial sense of excise duty is solely that the budget is filled, and this will achieve a very reverse effect. The removal of the part of fossil fuel excise duties will also affect the price of fuels, especially because the margin is fixed for fuel sellers, is fixed and will, of course, have to pass on the fuel sellers, to pass on the additional cost of excise duty to the final consumer. And the final consumer will therefore have higher prices. Ladies and gentlemen, does that make sense? Does the government of Alenka Bratušek actually prepare and propose financial and economic measures to the State budget? And do you even think about them? I don't think so. This law is being re-adopted, as is the Real Estate Tax Act, which has fallen over a long period of time and time at the Constitutional Court, here I am talking about five articles of the Constitution, which are contrary to the Real Estate Tax Act, but again the law is adopted by means of an urgent procedure with justification to prevent severe remedial consequences for the functioning of the State. And here let the Government state the difficult consequences for the functioning of the country if this law is not adopted by emergency procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly, assisted by coalition votes, decided that this law should be adopted by emergency procedure, as it had decided that the real estate tax law should be adopted by emergency procedure. And here, too, is the responsibility of the College of Presidents of the National Assembly, or those who voted in favour of taking such reckless measures, which would be more harmful than beneficial, by means of an urgent procedure. For these reasons, we will oppose the adoption of this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party and, of course, we have also prepared certain amendments to prevent the irreparable consequences of the damage that this law will bring.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u13	Thank you. Mr Mirko Brulc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u14	Your Honor! With the proposed law, the Government replaces the failure to enforce the property tax. Of course, this proposal does not replace the hole in the property tax as a whole, but to a much lower extent. At first, the real estate tax provided for tax revenue for the state budget of EUR 205 million, with regulations and including this law, tax revenues would be higher for the circus of 90 million in 2014. Unfortunately, raising excise duties on tobacco products, cigarettes and cigarettes will not reduce the consumption of tobacco products, since smoking habits are clear regardless of the whole product. A raise of excise duty will bring in 20 cents for a pack of cigarettes. With regard to the abolition of excise duty on biofuels, it should be noted that the abolition was mainly due to the fact that the reimbursement of excise duty did not serve to increase the production of biofuels in Slovenia. Apart from smaller producers in Slovenia, biofuels are imported to a large extent from abroad. Based on the assessment of all possible solutions, the solutions proposed are least harmful in terms of the impact on economic growth. This proposal also eliminates ineffective subsidies in the form of reimbursement of biofuel excise duty. In the parliamentary group, we will support the proposed law.If this law were not adopted, it would mean that the government would start reducing investment, which would have a much more negative impact on economic growth, and unemployment would have increased. Such measures are not acceptable in social democracy. It should be mentioned, however, that this Government is using the same measures as the previous Government, by charging the budget so that people, right, citizens and citizens, will be as affected as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u15	Mr Marko Pavlisič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Honourable President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, distinguished colleague, respected colleague, respected professional co-worker and respected expert! Amendments to the Excise Law contain some technical changes and some substantive changes. Thus, Article 4 simplifies the procedures for excise duties and the control of the quantities applied to the Regulation for excise duty on natural gas. This change in the level of excise duty alone does not affect and does not change. The new law changes the amount of excise duty on cigarettes and other tobacco products. There is no secret that the measure is primarily intended to consolidate public finances after the non-acceptance of value added tax. The change in excise duty policy for lubricating oils is a response to the marked increase in the consumption of products classified in this group, due to the use of such products instead of propulsion fuels, which is technically possible due to similar physical and chemical characteristics. This prevents users from using the excise duty on loaded fuel fuels. In response to the planned VAT hikes, subsidies were often mentioned, also proposed by the economy, so that resources can also be sought to offset tax revenue losses in order to eliminate or reduce subsidies. Biofuels were also subsidised through the refund of excise duty. However, the targets set in this area have not achieved their purpose, and we have been witnessing in the European Union for several years a decrease in the stimulation of the use of biofuels. With the proposed amendment to the Excise Law, we are following these trends and eliminating such subsidies. In the Civil Gazette, we expect additional measures on the expenditure side of the budget. In the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, we will support the proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u17	Ms Jasmina Opec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, hello, all of you! Do you remember how they taught us in elementary school? It went like this: "Slovenia has an important geostrategic position. As a transit country, it plays a major role in the transport of goods. Slovenia offers an excellent connection with Eastern Europe. Despite its smallness, two important transport corridors run through our country, namely the 5th and 10th. The Pan-European Corridor, this is the connection between Barcelona and Kiev and Salzburg and Thessaloniki." If you were to announce that famous Slovenian river, what Janezek learns, this Janezek knows, these characteristics of Slovenia, our advantages, would also be reflected in our tax policy. We would turn our natural characteristics into our own benefit, for the benefit of our budget and for the better life of our citizens and citizens. If we had lower excise duties in Slovenia than in neighbouring countries, we would probably see the next picture as seen in Luxembourg today in a country that has somewhat similar characteristics to Slovenia. Any truck driver crossing the border with Slovenia would pour fuel into Slovenia and buy a pack of cigarettes at the same time. If he left our country, we would know that he left us a large contribution to the state budget in addition to the roads destroyed. Summer. Along the highway between the Austrian and Croatian borders are all resorts full of tourists from all over Europe going south on vacation. Father pours fuel, mother drinks Barcaffe coffee this time, children eat ice cream from Ljubljana's dairy. In the meantime, they buy cigarettes during their vacation in Croatia because they are cheaper in Slovenia. When they come back, they do the same thing. Those who travel to Austria and Germany, both from Slovenia and Croatia through Slovenia, pour fuel into Slovenia, take along boxes of cigarettes for their friends and a box of good Slovenian beer. If we play a few more numbers. According to the Statistics Office of the Republic of Slovenia, in 2012 it crossed road border crossings with Croatia almost 10.2 million passenger vehicles. Assuming that on average the 50 litre tank, from which the country together collects 42 euros, the final inflow to the Slovenian budget amounts only to 428.4 million euros. How long did she want to get married with a real estate tax? What's the real picture? Due to the constant lifting of excise duties, which leads to higher fuel, cigarettes and alcohol prices in Slovenia than neighbouring countries, foreigners pump fuel before and immediately from Slovenia, drink French coffee in Croatian resting places, eat ice cream and freshen up with Karlovac's beer. Only destroyed roads are left of transit freight, which are again paid by Slovenian citizens. Instead of being restored through excise policies by those who destroy them. Slovenians, especially those who live near the border, pour fuel at gas stations in neighbouring countries, buy beer in supermarkets across borders – by the way, Slovenian beer near Budapest is much cheaper than in Slovenia – and we deliver cigarettes from countries where they are cheaper. Our financiers are whitening their heads to fill the budget hole. Austrian, Hungarian, Italian and Croatian financiers are writing us a letter of thanks because we are filling their national budgets with inadequate domestic excise policy. Not only are you burdening our citizens again, but you're giving up the inflow into the state budget that could come from elsewhere in the simplest way. Because we believe in the Slovenian People's Party that such a excise policy is wrong, we will not support the proposed novel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u19	Thank you, too. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. We're moving on to Article 3. I am putting forward an amendment to Article 3 of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party for discussion. The amendment is also linked to Article 9. I'm opening a debate. Anybody want to talk? I'm opening up the possibility of applying for a hearing. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj. As I have already said, the amendment to Article 3 is also linked to the amendment to Article 9, so that there will be no doubt if you can discuss this. Here you go, mag. Spread out.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Slovenian Democratic Party proposes not to increase the price of cigarettes by not increasing the excise duty on cigarettes and cigarettes. The main reason is that the increase in excise duties will not, for the first time, have any financial impact on the state budget and will not bring those, I think 14 million additional money has been said. The consumption will remain the same and the sale of cigarettes will decrease in Slovenia. In other words, since the sale will decrease, there will also be less money in the budget. Why will consumption be the same? Because people will buy cigarettes in small - border areas or in different areas along borders. Here I am thinking mainly of Croatia, where cigarettes are significantly cheaper. Since cigarettes are significantly cheaper, of course, illegal imports will not occur, because in fact today we no longer have borders, we no longer have customs restrictions and people can freely transfer certain products. However, in those quantities that are usually determined — we can talk about a few ten packs of cigarettes here. This, of course, means that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia today should also look at the competitiveness of excise duties. Competitiveness of excise duties. They are set within the EU. There are limits. There are two excise duties. And within the framework of these two, each Member State may freely choose how to tax cigarettes. Here, in my view, the policy of this government is completely wrong, wrong because it simply does not take into account how cigarettes are taxed in more favourable excise countries and how this will actually affect the financial impact itself. Because there will be no additional financial impact, the budget will not be evenled, and because the budget will not be flattened, there will, of course, be a greater deficit than has actually been announced. In other words, the increase in excise duties at a certain point in time may even be detrimental to state finances, especially because this increase does not bring some revenue to the State, but this curve turns around and actually yields less revenue than it would otherwise have at normal sales. Here again, I would like to stress that this is not about reducing consumption. I think that smoking habits will not diminish because of this, and in other words, if we look at the sense of excise duty and the meaning of cigarette taxation, of course, the point is also that after some medical analyses it is known that smokers are more likely to get sicker, that they have more diseases and that, of course, they benefit more from health services. And because they benefit more from health services, they pay in some way higher taxes indirectly. After all, there is a logic about why cigarettes are taxed with higher excise duty or special excise duty. After all, smokers contribute indirectly to the health treasury more. I am not talking about the fact that this money goes directly to the health treasury, goes through the budget and, of course, then the budget can also go to the health treasury more. After all, this is also a logic, because, after all, at some international conferences organised by the World Health Organization on excise policy, I am talking about WHO health organisation, in fact, it has come to be a philosophy and has some logic. And what are we doing in our country? With lower revenues due to the increase in excise duties, of course, there will also be less money for health care, but on the other hand smokers will probably continue to be treated in the Slovenian health system, while spending will be paid into another budget, into another country's budget. And here is actually the nonsense of this action by Alenka Bratušek. Even in this, not only is the actual increase in such excise duties completely flawed because it makes no economic sense. This is also why the Slovenian Democratic Party proposes that this increase in excise duties is simply not carried out because it is absurd because it has no financial impact and will not have any effect because the Government itself, the Ministry of Finance, has data about sales falling. Sales are falling year after year and economically and financially it makes no sense for you to increase your excise duty at such times, and for that reason I see no rational reason here why we are going to such a policy. And there's a similar matter in the field of fuel. The excise policy on fuels is the same. Slovenian province is polluted by foreign trucks, trucks with foreign registration plates, new roads are paid, a healthy environment is paid, and fuel consumption goes to other budgets. Because one tank can be transported from the west to the east or from the north to the south of our country. And we don't act rationally here. This government doesn't act rationally. I'm sorry. And the measures proposed under the urgent procedure, because there will be no consequences, if not adopted, are reckless and the College of the National Assembly, which agrees with this, is acting recklessly. And we really need to look at what we want to do with this. And that's not gonna happen. This shows economic analysis and financial analysis, if you also want the Ministry of Finance, and is known to indicate that actual sales are declining while consumption is still. And I would suggest that the coalition that supports this increase in excise duties reconsider what it will achieve. The provision of the same persons from the Ministry of Finance under the real estate tax law was that this is an indispensable tax, that this is something we must accept if the state does not collapse. And in the end, we realized it was a big fiasco. And there won't be a fiasco in the Constitutional Court. There's no problem here. There will be a fiasco in the economic and financial field. This will not go to the Constitutional Court, these are directives, no problem in this regard. However, the problem is in the economic and financial sphere, as it is easy for the state to receive less and less revenue, including from excise duties, and more and more costs for health care and more and more costs for the environment, due to mismanaged excise policies. And I'm actually calling for reason. Coalition, let's reconsider. Take a look at the data showing the decline in sales and the incomprehensibility of such actions by the government of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u21	Thank you. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u22	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues, colleagues! I personally will support this amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party. In opening, I would like to say that, when I came to this Parliament, I have decided that whether I am using a service or buying a product to which the auction follows, and if this is in the interest of the State of the Republic of Slovenia or a positive effect on the budget, I will support such a proposal. I think that this proposal, the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, in some way saves the sustainability of the budget and ensures that revenue in the budget itself will not be reduced. But I will continue to try to explain this matter. I am sure that the policy and the measures taken by the government of Alenka Bratušek are actually incorrect from A to Z and to the detriment of Slovenian citizens and citizens, but mainly burden the economy. The excise policy that this Government has been implementing in recent years, I am sure that it is totally flawed. Let me tell you why. Also in the presentation of the positions, in particular the coalition groups, it was clear that the argument to increase excise duties on tobacco was mainly due to the Constitutional Court which rejected the real estate tax and that now you will somehow fill the budget, part of the revenue provided for under the real estate tax. If that were the case, then I would expect the government of Alenka Bratušek to decide to bring a bill to Parliament, which will provide that excise duties on tobacco products and energy products will be reduced. Because it's just a manoeuvre to ensure higher budget revenues. Let me tell you why. In 2012, the Slovenian market for cigarettes or tobacco products collected €446 million from excise duties. In 2013, the revenue from the collected excise duty amounted to EUR 428 million. This means an 18 million-dollar drop in collected excise duties. This shows that the decline in the sales of cigarette products in Slovenia decreased by more than 17% in 2013, as the prices of cigarettes in Slovenia are too high compared to those in the surrounding countries, Austria, Croatia and Hungary. With the last increase in excise duties, the so-called psychological limit of the cheapest pack of cigarettes, 3 euros, has broken through. And data for 2014 also show that the sales of tobacco products in Slovenia decreased by an additional 6% over the same period compared to last year. I thank the Ministry of Finance, which has sent me an answer to my question from the Committee on Finance. The Ministry of Finance also confirms this. This means that tobacco sales in Slovenia decreased this year compared to last year's period. And now, from this graph, which is here, clearly shows how these excise duties have been reduced, the revenue in the Slovenian budget has been reduced. And you are now coming with a bill to further increase excise duties in Slovenia on tobacco products. You expect about €25.1 million of higher excise revenue per year. Based on what? The sales market in Slovenia is declining and you expect higher revenues. And I am sure, after some simulations, that the result of this increase in excise duties will be, instead of your projected additional revenue to the budget, that the revenue to the Slovenian budget will be reduced by an additional EUR 8 million due to the action I believe the coalition will take today. Only from tobacco products. But you have another matter to consider. If we had a reasonable excise policy that was aimed at consumption, we could ensure, as it was a while ago, that we attracted mainly an Austrian buyer to Slovenia, who not only bought cigarettes but went to lunch, he used hairdressing services, he used something else. And this means that the money was left by the Austrian citizen in Slovenia, thereby strengthening the Slovenian economy and, of course, strengthening the budget with revenue. And today it's gonna be the other way around. Look, the market is open today. Croatia has come to the European Union. This means that someone legally can transfer four "packs" of cigarettes to a person from Croatia to Slovenia. We know that the first May holidays will now begin, according to tradition this means that Slovenian citizens will go across the border. And you only increase excise duties on May 1st, which means they will figure out below, that the pack of cigarettes in Croatia is on average 25-30% cheaper. This means that this migration will start to increase. Not to mention the black market. Look, here's a graph of current prices. Where is Slovenia with some packs of cigarettes? This means that you will reduce the price difference between Hungary, Austria and Italy by raising excise duty and the price of cigarettes will increase compared to Croatia, Serbia and BiH. This means that you will stimulate legal imports and, of course, you will stimulate the black market. And all of these are the consequences of having lower revenues in the Slovenian budget. In this preparation of the proposal for the novelty of the excise law, you listed a table with some excise duties in tobacco products. I think this chart is missing. You mention specific excise duties, such as those in Austria, such as those in Croatia, such as those in Hungary. I think it would be more appropriate to prepare this document by comparing the market, the prices of the most sold cigarettes and perhaps the cheapest pack of cigarettes. And then you would come to realize that excise policy in Slovenia is wrong. The revenues are going to go down. However, you all point out here that raising this excise policy means compensation for the loss of real estate tax. This means that you will increase the budget deficit with this measure. Moreover, you will burden the economy again, burden citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and reduce hypothetical potential consumption if this excise policy adapts to excise or excise duties held by neighbouring countries. Let's not talk about spending on energy. It should be pointed out that the Government, by order of one week ago, has already increased prices for alcoholic products. This means that migration will again increase here, so that Slovenian guests will decide to buy alcoholic beverages in Italy, allowing them to buy EU law and market where they have cheaper excise duties. And, of course, you've also increased your excise duty, not your energy. See where Slovenia is today with the prices of oil derivatives. Gas, oil. I've already proposed to you on the Finance Committee, contact the Petrol administration and see how much sales have decreased. Today, the Slovenian citizen who has this option is to fill his steel horse in Austria, Italy or Hungary. And that difference is increasing. Instead of attracting Austrian citizens, Croatian citizens to increase the sale of oil derivatives to us, as already mentioned by others, and to benefit from other services. The most interesting thing you are preparing in this document is for energy users when comparing excise policies on oil derivatives with Finland and Ireland. Release Hungary and Croatia. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Finance, tell me what is the link between the excise policy of oil derivatives in Finland and Ireland. Tell one Finnish citizen or Slovenian citizen who goes to Finland or Slovenia. Please release Croatia and Hungary from this document, which are direct competitors. Once again, I stress that I will support the SDS proposal, which I think is in favour of Slovenia, is in favour of the economy, in favour of increasing consumption. This proposal of yours, such your actions, is indeed mistaken in all areas and thus burdens the economy, the Slovenian citizen and the citizen, and I think that the Slovenian budget of this policy and measures has an increasing deficit.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u23	Thank you. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, there are two aspects to this law. One is what the financiers are now advocating here, which is a mere charge of the budget, and let it cost as much as it costs. It was said that this measure devours the welfare of citizens and citizens. It was said that smokers contribute more to the health treasury because they are more sick and then pay more. Where do we live? You've got a doctor on your team. And he lets you say that?Oh, my God! Go to oncology, one cancer patient causes such a cost that he should smoke several trucks of cigarettes throughout his life to pay for treatment. We pay for those who come to treatment for such and other addictions. Are all Slovenians going to Croatia for cigarettes now? All the youth I observe daily — you can no longer see them without a cigarette on the street. Is that our interest? The more you smoke, the more you drink? Have him buy a box of cigarettes, have him drink coffee, throw two more whiskeys, and if he can, should he drive in the opposite direction — do we want to do it in this country? Every thing has its own limit. Each case has its own limit. This company must take care to smoke as little as possible in order to enjoy as few unhealthy alcoholic beverages as possible and so on. This is our interest, not just the budget charging. And some statements here today really surprise me very much. Tobacco is a big pest, alcohol is the same. And if it costs more, we do not reduce the welfare of citizens and citizens. Blessings would be reduced by raising the price of milk, bread, and other goods that are urgently needed each day. Of course, I will not support these amendments, and I hope that in addition to allowing only a few more resources to flow into the state budget, this law will also contribute to lower consumption of tobacco products, at least in the youth, if not in the case of adult citizens and citizens. But everyone can't, like high school kids, buy cigarettes abroad because they're 20 cents cheaper. I know it's going to be a great start on those words. Once again, there are two aspects, one is the charging of the budget, and the other is the concern for the health of citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u25	Thank you. The replica has a mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u26	Dear Mr. Brultz, you mentioned milk and bread. Milk and bread during the government of Alenka Bratušek have already been auctioned by raising the lower rate of value added tax. Isn't it? [[advertising in the hall]] Yeah, but you already did, and I'm not ruling out that you won't be doing it again next month. I think this debate is completely wrong, and I'm going to try to give you some numbers. In Slovenia there is no decrease in the consumption of cigarettes; in Slovenia there is a decrease in the sale of cigarettes. And I don't know if, because of excise policy, anyone in Slovenia would stop smoking. But it's another matter. The excise duty will now be paid by Slovenian citizens – where? In Croatia, Hungary, on the black market. This means that they will fill the budget of Croatia, Hungary and other countries and will be treated in Slovenia. And I would understand you if this law suggested that part of the excise duty on tobacco and alcohol be used for medical bills. No, this is just about charging the budget. And not with those words when you say that this will reduce consumption in Slovenia. No! No! You mentioned a youth who walks with three, four packs of cigarettes – yes, but on this box there are some "graves" written in "graves", not that many can't read because it's a black market. All of us, or all of us, will be treated at the expense of the Slovenian health department. And that's the wrong thing to do. But your government has already irritated the bread and the milk.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u27	Thank you. Now I give the word to the government, Mag. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u28	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u29	Excuse me? Who wants a replica? Have you checked in before? Now you're reporting to the replica. Mag. Andrey Shircelj, the replica. Excuse me, Mrs. Vranic. Mag. Andrey Shircelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u30	Thank you very much, President. I'd like to replicate to Mr. Brultz, and I've seen myself here after all. I would like to explain once again to Mr Brulco what this is all about. Excise is taxed specifically on fuels, especially alcohol and especially tobacco products. And if these excise duties are not paid into the Slovenian budget, then the state has nothing from excise duties. And if these excise duties are too high, then people are buying these products, if you want excise goods, in other countries, in small-scale traffic and so on. Slovenia is a geographically small country and therefore has a lot of border traffic, people are buying once here, once there. After all, you know, you live in an area where a lot of people buy in Italy, if there's something cheaper there, or if it's bought in Italy in the past, whatever. And people behave rationally. And if people buy cigarettes in other countries, for example in Croatia, then they will pay the excise fee to the Croatian budget, they will smoke wherever they are, but they will certainly benefit from Slovenian health services. Probably. It's a good chance. Tobacco is something special. I was talking about some of the analyses showing -- some of the analyses, because if you take the analysis of tobacco manufacturers, it's not going to show -- that smokers get sick faster. But if you take the analysis of the World Health Organization, the World Health Organization, they will show that smokers are more likely to suffer from certain diseases. I'm not going to say any because I'm not an expert on it, but for some, of course. And when smokers buy a box of cigarettes, they also pay the excise fee that goes into the state budget. From the state budget, money can and often comes from Slovenian health care. And since smokers are getting sicker after some analyses, they also pay more in budgets. Now it's a question of which. Or in one that is also related to health care or to another, because if you buy cigarettes in the United Kingdom, you will pay this expense in the budget of the United Kingdom. And because the increased excise duty will increase the price, these cigarettes will not be competitive and people will not pay in the Slovenian budget, but in some other budget. But they will still smoke, for the government also estimates that this smoking will not decrease. This is a puzzle, and this is the wrong policy of Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek to actually finance other budgets, budgets of other countries and this is not meaningful and is not rational. And since it will finance the budgets of other countries, Slovenian taxpayers are likely to be burdened with some other taxes later on because they will have to patch up the deficit and because they will have to start repaying debts once. That was the point of the debate I had, if that was understandable. A perfect economic logic for how people work [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u31	Mag. Spread out, time for the replica is up, that's why. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u32	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u33	I have to stop you. [[…]] Thank you. You will be able to come forward to the debate, and I have already received a mag for the debate. Matthew the Vranic and I give her my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. With regard to Article 3(3). The substance of the changes introduced by Article 3 is not so much an increase in excise duties on cigarettes, although the biggest financial gain is expected here, but the essence of the amendment of this Article is to increase and change the structure of excise duty to other tobacco products. As members of the SDS have found, people smoke, but they need to see what they smoke. And if we smoked 4 billion 716 million cigarettes in 2012 or even in 2012, only 170 million cigarettes of other tobacco products were smoked. In 2013, when the last novels of the Law on Excise, prepared and enforced in 2012, people bought cigarettes in Slovenia in the amount of 4 billion 60 million pieces. In addition, they bought other tobacco products, equivalent to 320 million cigarettes. According to 170 million cigarettes from other tobacco products in 2012, consumption of other tobacco products almost doubled in 2013. Why? Due to the recent amendment of the Excise Law, there has been a significant increase in excise duties on cigarettes, as well as a change in the structure of excise duty between specific and proportional, but excise duties on other tobacco products have not been adequately increased. As a result, consumption has moved from already made cigarettes mainly to fine-cut tobacco for smoking. Let's see the numbers. In 2007, when the Slovenian market for all tobacco products sold for 4 billion 700 million pieces of cigarettes, we collected 301 million from excise duties. Of that, only from cigarettes 300 million. Thus, all other tobacco products have had a financial impact of 1 million. In 2013, we collected €426,8 million of all excise goods – slightly different from those mentioned by Member Pogačnik, probably because you have taken account of the cash flow data, I have before me data on the accrued excise duty, where there is a one-month delay. Of these 426.8 million euro we have only raised 411 million cigarettes. For example, with finely cut tobacco, there are already EUR 15 million, which is, compared to 2007, when we collected EUR 700,000 from finely cut tobacco, strong, strong reinforcements of this excise product. Also for other excise products, it is a trend and, for example, if we compare that I will not go so far in history, just 2012 and 2013, the excise duty was collected for finely chopped tobacco more than doubled, from 6.5 million came to 15 million 300, and the excise duty on other tobacco for smoking is doubled, while the increase in cigars and cigarillos is less noticeable. All of this data essentially shows that the tobacco market in Slovenia is changing and that excise policy must also be adapted to it. As a result, from a governmental point of view, it is crucial that, by amending Article 51 of the Law on excise duty, the burden of other tobacco products on cigarettes be brought closer, otherwise we will ensure that people move to other countries and buy cigarettes there, but will be even more resilient or even more resilient tobacco and other tobacco for smoking. As far as the drop is concerned. Yes, the decline in quantities has been observed since 2012 onwards. In part, the decline in quantities sold in cigarettes is, as has already been said, on other tobacco products, partly claims that the situation has changed with Croatia's entry into the European Union, where the regime for the introduction of cigarettes from Croatia as well as from other countries of South-Eastern Europe has changed significantly. And this is also reflected in the data for the previous year. When we planned this year's revenue in the 2014 adopted budget for excise duties on tobacco, we took this decline into account. The estimated revenue set out in the adopted budget is estimated at around 10 % of the quantities sold in this year and the estimated amount of excise duty collected is adjusted accordingly. We argue, however, that the proposed increase in excise duties will not change this trend or that the change in excise duties will not change this trend or that the decline in the quantities sold in Slovenia would be even greater. In doing so, let me also correct the information given so that the innkeepers can sell excise goods or tobacco products that will be purchased in other countries and will not pay Slovenian excise duties. That's not allowed. The same applies to alcohol. All excise goods arriving in Slovenia in order to be used in any activity must be declared to the customs authority and must be accounted for by the Slovenian excise duty, whether or not the excise duty has already been paid abroad or on the basis of proof that excise duty has been paid in Slovenia, in another Member State of the European Union, they shall require the refund of the excise duty paid there. I should also point out that, with regard to tobacco products, countries do not fix retail prices for excise or tobacco products, but rather the fixing of retail prices is left to traders or producers of tobacco products. Therefore, the same tobacco product will have a very different price if purchased in Austria, Italy or Croatia. This different price does not depend solely on the burden of excise duty and value added tax, but on the price set by the producer or trader before tax. One more word, two more on energy. Although this article does not, in fact, speak of energy, they were mentioned in the debate. In Slovenia, the prices of key energy, petrol and diesel are regulated, modelled. As a result of this suspension of the refund of part of the excise duty, it cannot affect the final retail price unless agreed or if this would result in a change in the model price, but it is crucial that the consumer did not know at this time whether the diesel fuel taken from the petrol pump mixed with or not mixed with biodiesel. The price for it was the same and the stimulation, which was eased, was essentially stimulated by the producer or distributors of motor fuels which were not transferred to the final consumer. For this reason, we estimate that there is no reason for the suspension to be passed on to the consumer. When you talk about transit, especially the transit of freight vehicles, remember that in Slovenia there is a so-called commercial diesel scheme that allows motorists, domestic and foreign, to reduce excise duty to the level of the minimum European excise duty for diesel fuel used as a drive. We are one of the few countries that uses this scheme. This National Assembly has taken the initiative to phase out this matter gradually, but the Government has decided not to offer this proposal to the National Assembly, which was in the context of the debate on environmentally harmful subsidies, precisely because our assessment was that the effect of abolishing this scheme and this relief for the Slovenian public financial situation would be negative. So much for now, maybe later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u35	Thank you. There were more people reported to speak than mags. Vogree and others. I invite you to report for discussion. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u36	Your Honor, thank you very much for your word. I think for over a year I have estimated that, as regards excise policy in Slovenia, there has long been a so-called breakthrough where, in fact, the raising of excise rates results in less State budget over excise revenue. In the next few minutes, I will try to illustrate this to those colleagues who logically conclude and who have some pre-economic knowledge. I believe they will understand my debate. The 1978 Anecdota, when Dr. Arthur Laffer at a dinner in the White House, drew a famous curve on a napkin for a journalist Wall Street Journal, called Laffer’s curve, where it proves that at one stage a so-called breakthrough occurs. This point of breakthrough, which took place before us, took place somewhere in 2012, I can tell you that somewhere in the end of the other Janša government. I assess this breakthrough with excise revenue, which have the following rates of suspicion. The first sum, 2012, excise duty on energy and electricity – EUR 1 billion 19 million 714 thousand. In 2013, these excise duties, from energy and electricity, amounted to EUR 968,219 million. The excise duty on alcohol and alcoholic beverages amounted to €94 million in 2012 and €612,000 in 2013. The excise duty on tobacco products amounted to 445 million 948 thousand in 2012 and 428 million 265 thousand in 2013. By way of calculation, in 2013 we collected from all excise duties, i.e. alcohol, fuel, electricity and a complex range of tobacco products, a circus of 70 million euro less excise duties. I have looked very closely at your documents and your theories to prove Slovenia as a transit state in a special position and you prove it with some prices, say Finland and other countries. It's against all logic. First of all, Slovenia had an extremely high-quality excise policy, which is extremely good, and by 2008, we can say another Janša government. Then there was a whole series of fractures. First of all, we don't understand the excise story, the shopping habits of people. Our goal is not to smoke more if we are talking about excise duties on cigarettes or to drink more, but to use our extremely good geostrategic position as a transit state in particular, and to leave foreigners travelling across the country as much money as possible. This is our story and the story of the Slovenian Democratic Party. And I believe that the story of the other parties that somehow follow these goals is also true. Slovenia is exploiting this extremely good geostrategic position and its label in Central Europe to have extremely favourable prices for cigarettes, alcohol and fuel. At least she had them. People have absorbed all this, somehow they've memorized all these stories. It's about the special shopping habits of people, it's even the psychology of sales, and none of your theories ever considered it. So, the government of Alenka Bratušek did not deal with any serious structural reforms, did not want to interfere with its left electoral base, but thought lightly on the line of least resistance that it could raise excise duties and fill the state budget. That's totally wrong. So it destroys these easy revenues, I can say, light revenues at the expense of foreigners in Slovenia. On this Laffer curve, if we take a good look, the fall in one year is 70 million excise duties. The Laffer curve here proves that if excise duties increase, only for a small increase in excise duties will it most likely follow in the following year, 2014, chaos in this area. I am counting on us to fall somewhere from 120 to 130 million euros in excise revenue next year. I can also prove this, and I believe that this will follow if you implement this law and follow exactly the words that the Secretary of State spoke about today. My next contribution in response to you is assortment of tobacco products. Yes, in Slovenia the purchasing power has plummeted extremely, it is extremely small and people have opted for other tobacco products with smaller excise duties. They opted for finely chopped tobacco, which means, as colleagues Pogačnik and his colleague Shircelj said today, to smoke the same, but went for finely chopped tobacco, where excise duties are smaller. This, of course, gives the country less, and we have more smokers in Slovenia. And that's the whole story. So you, as I now understand, want to raise excise duties on fine-cut tobacco, where they have been reduced, but I must say that the next step that will happen is that people will no longer decide on fine-cut tobacco in Slovenia, but will decide on fine-cut tobacco in Austria, Croatia and so on. Of course, they will also decide on fine-cut tobacco in the black market, which I do not think I need to discuss anymore. All statistics also show that in the last year the black market has increased dramatically. Finally, we need to ask ourselves what our goal is. Is our goal, for example, what Luxembourg is doing in the European Union? Have you ever been to Luxembourg? Did you know that Luxembourg has, say, 15 to 20% of GDP from excise revenue? So he lives at the expense of the entire area of Germany, Belgium, France. And I can say that gas stations around the border, so in Germany, 30, 40 kilometers from the border, literally disappeared. Last but not least, Madam Secretary of State, two days ago I was in Austria, on the border belt in the Austrian Radgona, the pumps are full of cars from Maribor, Murska Sobota and so on. Our pumps are empty. So your excise policy is totally wrong. If you represent such interests, I urge you and the Minister of Finance to step down at the moment because you have done at least 70 million damage in the last year. You've done 70 million euros in damage in the last year! You've done 70 million euros of damage! Will you take responsibility for this because of the wrong theory you have at the expense of excise policy? All the indicators prove it. And you want to raise the excise. So, now I've proved to you, people have decided on substitutes, as they decide on substitutes for your VAT increase, they don't buy Slovenian alpine milk anymore, they decide on substitutes for Italian alpine milk because it's cheaper. And they decide on substitutes for fruits when they decide not on Slovenian apples, but on other apples. Because it's a reduced purchasing power and it's a sales psychology. This is a sales psychology mainly in a country that has extremely reduced purchasing power at the expense of the economic crisis. And you don't understand. You don't understand. This is not a theory of a Belgrade economic school, these are theories of serious economic schools. And I believe that you will look at the indicators and so-called practiceology, which was an extremely good tool for the Austrian economic school when they put these theories up. And look, Mrs Vraničar, I believe that you must represent this, that this is not your theory, that you represent the interests I don't know who, but I think our goal is to get as much money at the expense of foreigners, at the expense of transit, into the Slovenian state budget. I hope that's our common goal. I hope so. Look, I believe you will miss it, because we, in the time of the other Janša government, have also set up a regulation that allows you monthly types of market to adapt excise duties to market conditions. You have a regulation that allows you to type monthly and for each government meeting somehow raise or drop excise duties and this has long exceeded all limits. We are long past the turning point and have been collecting less excise duties for a year, especially at the expense of foreigners.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u37	Thank you. The word has magic. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u38	The other convinced is so hard to convince him to change his mind. That's why I don't hope to convince you that you're trying to understand me. But the data shows its own. And if you want, the break took place with the latest changes to the Treasury Act, which came to life in 2013. As regards tobacco products and the reduction of quantities sold. As far as excise duties on energy products are concerned, excise duties on individual energy products were the highest in 2011 and at the beginning of 2012 and stabilised last year. And you're saying that, in fact, by the beginning of 2013, excise policy in the field of energy was ideal? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u39	Thank you. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin. Do you have a replica? Were you misunderstood? Mr. Franz Breznik, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u40	Look, Madam Secretary of State, I'm not saying she's perfect. I always look at the results we got. And why did you, as a government representative, not react to this market? Why didn't you respond? You know, we're not in the Middle Ages that everything revolves around the earth. Not all around the country or around Slovenia. The other countries, however, optimised excise policy and exploited Slovenia. That's what I'm trying to tell you. And that's what the Croats are going to do now. That's what your colleague Pogačnik and colleague Shircelj told you. We don't need to discuss this. It is not only macroeconomic policy or the excise policy of Slovenia, but other policies are important, we are somewhere at the heart of this. And they certainly react to the other countries, and there's always one fight that fights. Always one fight that convinces those who consume alcohol, gasoline, tobacco and everything else to decide and people make decisions every day. Millions and millions of rational or irrational decisions on the market occur daily. That's how the market reacts, Madam Secretary of State. And the results show that the government has not reacted. The government could react already in 2013. She could've reacted without responding. When our gas stations were emptying, when our stores were empty, when we sold out less cigarettes to strangers. And those Slovenians who consumed it already decided to substitute, they went for a finely chopped tobacco, which has half a small excise duty, they make cigarettes at home, and so on. Foreigners, however, have reduced their consumption. And I can tell you that foreigners leave in Slovenia – this is difficult to determine statistically – but there is more than 200 million foreign money in the 400 millionth market at this point. So that money that foreigners leave through excise duties in Slovenia. More than 200 million euros. You're playing with that money. You're playing with that money today.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u41	Thank you. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! History shows the following. Physical and spiritual health was preserved by people in difficult times if they maintained a healthy attitude toward humor. Let's start with humor. Some or most of you will be remembered by Staneta Dolanec, who has been more famous for Yugoslavian than for Slovenian, so he also spoke Yugoslav and I will speak Yugoslav. He said, "It's hard to be a fool in these times." A thought that says a lot. Look, the analysis shows that we actually have two kinds of governments, functional governments and non-functional governments. The non-functional government acts in such a way that it owes and raises taxes. That's what our government does that doesn't work. I'll give you some concrete examples. The government isn't working. The government thinks it works because it's easy to do it, we all know how to do it. The functional governments, however, create conditions for economic growth, for creation. That's what we destroy with every law. Here we have four representatives of the government, three lovely ladies and one gentleman, who are an excellent example of the difference between dictatorship and democracy, which is almost gone. Of course, I know two ladies very well, I am also in good relations, I respect them, but this job is difficult because you have to listen to others and work according to the dictatorship of others. I believe this is difficult. Look, the dictatorship says be quiet or, I'll metaphorically put it, keep your mouth shut. But democracy says what we're looking at right now. All three ladies are smiling, laughing, and the gentleman who thinks, "You do what you say, we do what we do." That's how this government works. If we go to a gray economy. Look, you've lost touch with reality. You know why? Because he travels abroad on a daily basis, many trucks, "trucks". Now they're going to drive cigarettes from abroad and not sell them in pubs or bars, but to their friends, they're going to have a drink for it. Let's understand that you're the one who's accelerating the grey economy because people have to work in black and sell in black. Now tell me how we explain that in Milosevic's time, people in Serbia survived with 100 euros in wages, if it was 400 euros. Yes, with a grey economy, ladies and gentlemen. And who was responsible for the grey economy? Government, Milosevic. And who's to blame now? Government and Parliament. Mr. Shircelj said, "I hope you know what you're doing." Lord Shircel, Jesus Christ said, "God forgive them, for they do not know what they are doing." That's what the Bible says. And they don't know what they're doing. That's what all the results show. However, if the measure is full, you do so – and I do not mean it personally now, the government and also Parliament are involved – that in fact it is likely that someone will have to be accused of national treason. In fact, when Hitler came to Maribor in 1941, he said, "Make me this land German!" He didn't make it. Mr. Uroš Cuffer and the elite around him – this is what Franček Drenovac writes in the book Kolaps elite – has succeeded. We made the northeast part of Slovenia German. And look, here's a photograph that says that representatives of Slovenian parties took pictures with Mussolini and congratulated him on joining the Yugoslav province of Italy. Today we can congratulate Dr. Uroš Čufer and some who have joined the northern part of Slovenia in half to Austria, and this part to Italy and Slovenia practically no longer exists, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u43	Thank you. The word is Jasmina Opec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. It is right that we not only look at certain measures that we are taking through financial indicators but look at them a little bit wider. We've already heard today that the sale of cigarettes and tobacco products is falling. We would expect or wish that at the same time the number of smokers in Slovenia would probably fall. Is that true? This January, the National Institute of Public Health published data that we had 20.7% of smokers aged between 15 and 64 in Slovenia, today we have 24%. So where do our smokers, if they sell tobacco products, buy cigarettes? We heard they're going for cigarettes across the border, where prices are lower. But the more I worry about it, the bigger the black market is in the field of cigarette sales. Experts warn us that high taxes on cigarettes promote the smuggling of cigarettes or the spread of the black market. And here we face two dangers in particular. One danger is that organised crime is financed in this way and another is the risk that these cigarettes that are on the black market because they do not have to comply with health, safety and because they do not comply with European nicotine and other harmful substances rules are much more harmful to human health. We all know that cigarettes are really bad for people. I'm a rascal myself, but our original task must be to try to really influence the health of people in our country as best as possible. And such a excise policy, when we encourage the functioning of the black market, where people consume cigarettes that are far more dangerous to human health, is certainly not a step that would contribute to better health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u45	Thank you. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u46	Your Honor! The main purpose of this law is to raise excise duties on tobacco and tobacco products and thus to raise the price of tobacco and tobacco products. The government recognises and, last but not least, makes it very clear that this is because it wants to increase revenue in the budget, due to the coverage of the part of the hole created by the fall of the real estate tax. Therefore, it is clear that, respected colleagues and colleagues, the rise in the price of tobacco and tobacco products is not due to concern for the health of Slovenes and Slovenes, so that people would smoke less and thus have an impact on a more favourable health treasury position. Therefore, all the abuse of this discussion of raising excise duties in the direction of health, lack of place, is cheap propaganda, demagogies and misleading. This was supported by a number of evidence that consumption of tobacco and tobacco products is not decreasing in Slovenia. However, sales on the domestic Slovenian market are decreasing and since sales are decreasing, the effect is also less tax collection. Because of what is being bought abroad or in a grey market, the Slovenian budget has nothing or has damage, because the Slovenian budget pays for the treatment of those people who have bought or bought it outside. Therefore, it would be very good for us to pour pure wine when we talk about this law. Thus, the government is convinced that by raising the prices of tobacco products – tobacco, cigarettes and other tobacco products – it will gain more money in the budget, and it has not done one fundamental analysis of the effects of raising excise duties, which it should do. The government ignores a number of factors that will affect the sale of tobacco products in Slovenia due to an increase in excise duties. To avoid ingenuity, the Court of Auditors' audit also confirms whether we analyse the effects of the proposed and adopted regulations on users and, last but not least, on a wider society. And the Court of Auditors finds that, as a rule, it does not. This is said to be a very good discussion for you, when all the rules come to Parliament – a respected President of Parliament – do not have a properly analyzed effect on both the user and the society as a whole. And that is why it happens that we constantly correct and amend them, because they do not achieve the effects that have sent them to Parliament. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party are constantly reminding the Government that the effects of this specific law, the novelties of the excise law, especially in the work when we talk about higher taxation of tobacco products and cigarettes, will not bring the desired effects into the budget. Now you can trust us - the opposition, but you can trust the Secretary of State or the Ministry. And there's something that makes sense. The logic is that the government has completely ignored the effect of Croatia's entry into the European Union in simulating the further decline in tobacco and tobacco sales in Slovenia. Because a number of citizens, smokers, will especially buy cigarettes and tobacco products in the border area, especially where they are cheaper. That's how a rational buyer behaves. And the government is following the downward trend of sales, but does not take into account this effect of Croatia's entry into the European Union and does not take into account that there is a huge supply of illegal tobacco and cigarette products on the Croatian market due to the proximity of Bosnia, Serbia and other countries, as well. And of course this will have an impact on the quantity of tobacco products sold in Slovenia, on the excise duty collected, with this price and this price difference between the Slovenian and Croatian markets increasing. What does it matter? It is also important that the government ignores the impact of the decline in purchasing power. So, an important segment in deciding whether to buy expensive tobacco products in Slovenia or to go elsewhere or to look at the gray market is, of course, how much we earn every day or how much we get every day. And if this money is less, the motive for going cheaper is longer, bigger. And I'm not going to say anything new if I say that the higher taxes are humus, right humus, fertilizer, for the grey economy and the black market. The one who thinks he will raise taxes and thus attract more legal consumers is, of course, mistaken. This is not only true in the field of tobacco but also in other areas. I'll ask the secretary of state directly. Do you think, Madam Secretary, that this raise will also make excise duty fewer smokers in Slovenia, fewer users of tobacco or cigarettes and tobacco products? If you think so, I'm asking you how many. If the government has analysed the effects, it must know that because of this excise law in Slovenia, I do not know, for example, 1% less smokers. And I ask you: Do you have these analyses or do you also have these data? I also want to know how much we will save in the health treasury if there are fewer smokers. I didn't read about it in the law when we were talking about accompanying chapters of the law, where effects should also be analysed. Dearly beloved, in the Slovenian Democratic Party and myself, I personally believe that this raise will ruin the effect of the entire law, saying that more would be taken to the treasury. The raising of excise or excise duties is intended only for the filling of the budget and nothing else. However, it also has other effects. Of course, it has other effects, and the government underestimates them or does not want to see them at all. Here we are convinced that, indeed, we have come to this limit by means of the excise policy so far, or even beyond that limit, when sales have begun to decline dramatically. I agree with the Secretary of State that this move has already been made in the past in 2012, but this does not in any way mean that this should be continued or even made worse. And that's what you do. You're doing it. You're raising excise duties today, and you think you're gonna fix this. You will not, these revenue into the budget, unfortunately, will not. And I'm afraid you don't have a backup scenario, because the budget is adopted, the money in the budget is being spent. Today you are correcting the fall of one marriage and hope for the best, while ignoring these effects that we are warning you about. So, on a purely simple effect – if you raise the price of a product, this does not mean that because of the price rise, because of higher taxes there will also be more tax collection or more tax collection than you plan. Dear Secretary of State, I hope you won't take this personally because it's not meant to be. All members of the Committee on Finance were, in fact, in a way, I must say, really surprised at your personal involvement in the adoption of the property taxation law. You spent hours with us almost the night we passed this marriage. You've defended this law to the last drop of blood. I say, until the last drop of foreign blood, I'd say, Mr. Secretary's blood. You have been there and, as far as I know, you have believed in the appropriateness and correctness of these solutions and have defended them. Fair, fair, fair, professional. Dear Secretary of State, you've had a breakdown in the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has repealed this law in all essential elements. In all essential elements [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u47	Mag. Vizjak, I must warn you that we are talking about excise duties. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u48	Yes, Madam President, I will be very clear on how this applies to this amendment. Because today you're talking to us here and you're representing certain numbers. That's when you gave them to us. Part of the coalition believed you then. It's a professional thing that's burned down. You offered to resign, Minister Chufer didn't accept it. Today you present us with numbers. How can we believe you? Today you are presenting us with figures that the impact of this law, if I am not mistaken, will be 17 million this year and over 30 million, or vice versa, about 15 million euros this year and about 20 million next year. How can we believe you? How can we believe that it is logical that the rise in prices and the rise in taxes will lead to a fall in sales in Slovenia, because we are an open country, we have an environment around us that is close? It's not far. It's not in Finland. I come from Brežice on my own and we have, say, Zagreb 20 kilometers away. It is no problem to go fill the tank and at the same time, for example, although I am not myself a smoker, not a smoker and not a smoker, but one who is, will behave rationally. [[…]] So, how can we believe that we have experienced one such negative experience? Dear President of the National Assembly, this is a matter of trust. It is a matter of trusting the legislative branch of power to those who come through the proposals of laws here, who have actually already experienced the fiasco — professional, not political, professional — and let us continue to believe them. I don't believe it, and I trust common sense. And I believe we're not going to collect this tax by constantly raising excise duties. This tax will not be and the problem will increase and you will notice it once in autumn, when it is far too late.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u49	Thank you. The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! With regard to changes to this law, or with regard to these excise duties, which we are dealing with today, especially on tobacco products, the Government has, of course, already made some adjustments to the excise duty on petroleum derivatives. Of course, I am sure that it is always about at least three aspects of these excise duties. The first, evident in today's debate and the purpose of today's consideration of the law is, of course, budgetary. However, two of them are extremely important, one of them is health, especially in tobacco products, and the other are organic, which is in the case of excise duties on petroleum derivatives. I am not the most critical at this point to the Ministry of Finance, which is just saving what the Government thinks is the easiest and fastest possible solution. I'm critical of the Ministry of the Economy. I hope the new minister pulls the wagon in the right direction. Even more so, to the Government or the President of the Government, who is not fortunate enough to appoint a new Minister of Health. But what's happening is, believe me, totally unacceptable when you're in a medical situation. If things were normal, I'd take it on, but the fact that we don't have a health minister for at least five months -- let's leave that month that doesn't count -- that's incomprehensible and unwarranted. So much for these aspects. It's definitely about excise duties on propulsion fuels, as I said, about the ecological aspect. I think that some things are improving in the field of public transport. There are a few more of these line transports, including combined tickets giving some results, cheaper tickets for students and students and so on. Unfortunately, however, in this area we are extremely large debtors in Slovenia. Now in general. I don't have this data, I'm not a member of the Finance Committee, I don't have all this comparative data on the sales trend and so on, but I agree with these discussions that raising excise duties is a double-edged sword. I remember from the time of the former country, then the traffic tax on imported expensive drinks increased in one period in the early 1980s by 500%, and once a supermarket salesman said to me, "You know what this means to us? We sold two of these bottles a day before, and now we've sold one in one month." It's like a comparison, but I believe those bottles won't save the country. But I'm sure we'll get together. On the other hand, for several years now, at least when we talk about this transport and excise policy, I have always mentioned literally empty petrol pumps, at least as far as foreign trucks are concerned. Remember ten years ago when our gas stations were filled with foreign trucks. Today on this route, when I drive to work in Ljubljana, I rarely see a foreign truck standing on a gas station. At the station and resting place, of course, the resting places are full of legislation and mandatory rest of the drivers. But there is virtually no foreign truck at the gas station, and the locals mainly because they have some contracts with our oil suppliers, that is, contracts or other payment methods, they also fuel us. This purchase in neighbouring countries has been mentioned several times before. I personally buy absolutely not only in Slovenia, but also Slovenian products, even in our stores, regardless of the price. But I, of course, admit it, I can afford it. Those with the lowest incomes that are still normal for survival, however, I believe that many people who have multiple salaries of top government officials, including ministers and Prime Minister, unfortunately do not buy many things either Slovenian or Slovenia. [[…]] But I'm really sorry about them, because I'm sure we could do it. So I don't know what else to say. I am also afraid that what my colleagues are explaining is that this ambiguity of this measure will be able to produce unfortunately less results for the purpose for which this is being dealt with today. However, the fact that we do not have some issues and a feedback from health care and so on, I regret to say again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Pavlišič has the following word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. It is always fun in this National Assembly when someone starts by requiring a severe economic foreknowledge to understand his debate and then continues with an anecdotes about some napkin and so on. But let's put this aside. It was mentioned that in 2013 we collected 70 million less excise duties and this was explained by the wrong excise policy. Let's see what the excise policy on petrol was in 2013. This year we started with a excise duty of 0.5459 euros per litre of unleaded petrol and ended the year with 0.5146 euros per litre of unleaded petrol. It is said that in 2013 the excise duty on petrol fell, for the circus, so “from the eye”, 5, 7, 8%, something like this, so much decreased in 2013 and some people think that this was a wrong excise policy. If you look at the movement of excise duty on petrol this year, it is, I think once in the middle of a year, for what cent it exceeded this maximum level at the beginning of the year, but all the time it was practically below this initial level that year. And if, at the time, some felt that this excise policy was obviously wrong, then what is the real policy? And I don't want to talk here about the rise being the right one, but I'm just asking what the real excise policy is. If the raising of excise duty on tobacco is wrong, is it the right way to put excise duties on tobacco? Here we must look at the table already mentioned by Mr Pogačnik and say that I would rather see a different table. I would also prefer to see a different table, which would have significantly more data, to say significantly better what and how it is in this area, mentioning that a very similar table was also used in 2012 when the then government, in which the finance minister, Mr Janez Šušteršič, was raising excise duties. At that time, the exact same table with one exception or difference was used. Croatia was not included in this table at the time. Thus, the neighbouring country with which we have the largest border has not been included. The country with the longest border with Slovenia was not included in this table. It is likely that Croatia was not a member of the European Union at the time. But what I'm trying to say is, if this table doesn't fit today, then it was a good fit, isn't that double criteria? However, let us look at the contents of this table, because we need to focus on this content. The contents of this table tell us that in Austria they have on average 24% more expensive cigarettes than in Slovenia. And this table tells us that Italy, the next country to which we are bordering, has 40% more expensive cigarettes than in Slovenia. This is also evident from the graphs shown by Mr Pogačnik. They were probably on the left of Austria and Italy, and they were probably on the right of Hungary, where they have 8% lower price and Croatia, where they have 17% lower price. I think that Mr Pogačnik added two more countries, Bosnia and Serbia, at least mentioning them, I don't know if he put them on the graph, but there were no such countries in those tables in 2012. And now that we have heard about how such a excise policy is wrong and how these prices are wrong, we ask ourselves: why is this policy not wrong in Austria? Why is this policy not wrong in Italy? Why do they carry these higher prices there, but why can't the arguments you're making here today stand? Why don't those same arguments hold up? [[adverts from benches]] Mr. Vizjak mentions purchasing power. Yes, of course, but Austria is also a transit country, and Austria could get a lot of transit money if you bought it if the price was even lower. Why is this policy appropriate in Austria and Italy for you, but it is not in Slovenia and I would rather follow the policy they have in Croatia, which they have in Bosnia, which they have in Serbia? In short, dear colleagues, if I understand you, you advocate that we should follow the south and the east in our policies instead of the west and the north. In short, we're going to the Balkans. Or maybe I misunderstood something. You're gonna try to explain it again. I would also like to see a much more professional decision in the field of excise duty in order to pursue some very clear objective and, in my opinion, this objective should be that we have as much proceeds as possible from foreigners in the area of excise duties. I don't want to be taken from the locals. I'd rather see that our goal is as much as possible taken by foreigners. But to finally start acting more professionally in politics, it is still necessary to have some appropriate measure, some basic intellectual honesty. When we assess a matter, we use the same vats and the same arguments, not that when Mr Janez Šuštersič comes before this high assembly, we applaud him when he comes with these very same measures, Mr Uroš Čufer, and we interpret him. [[adverts from benches]] Yes, see, this fundamental measure of intellectual honesty would greatly help to make policy more professional. I hope you agree with that. For the end, I would just repeat another rhetorical question, and I won't answer it either. Yeah, who's the tank in Finland?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u53	I saw the hands for the replicas. There were a lot of them and a lot of them all at once, but we're going nice and easy. As I have estimated, Mr Vizjak, then Mr Pogačnik, then Mr Šircelj and then Mr Breznik, joined the replica. Here you go, Mr. Visac.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Obviously, colleague Pavlisic did not understand us when we stressed comparisons of the tobacco market in Slovenia with neighbouring Croatia and he said why we are not following the north or more developed countries. The effect of this law and the raising of excise duty on tobacco will be higher the price of tobacco. The higher prices of tobacco are, of course, bought by people, the good part of sales in Slovenia is unfortunately dependent on the domestic market, not on transit, but on the domestic market. And of course, the purchasing power of the population, or the income of the population, must be taken into account. Therefore, it is necessary to compare with those who have comparable purchasing power, not with those who have twice or three times the purchasing power. For those who have comparable purchasing power also behave in a comparable way. Therefore, respectable Mr Pavlisic, we have compared ourselves with those countries that are comparable to us in purchasing power. If in this government you would like to compare Alenka Bratušek with the developed ones, please do. Compare by salary and by other incomes of people, compare after that. Make this country comparable to these examples by the income line of the population. But not just at prices and taxes like you like to do. That's one thing I want to tell you. The second is when you underestimated the opposition here and us who are discussing and said that we are two-sided when one of the measures comes before this assembly, for example, the Minister of Finance of the then Janšev government, Mr Šuštersič, who was a member of the National Gazette, and, of course, today, when similar measures are brought before this assembly by this current government of yours. Do you know what the essential difference is, and why do we view this differently? Mr Šuštersič, together with me and other colleagues in the government, has brought a package of measures that have taken and followed one objective. Among them were excise duties. And there are a number of other measures that you forgot to list. In short, it was one of the measures on the revenue and expenditure side to balance public finances. So was ZUJF back then. And a lot of other things. In short, it was a system for a systematic balance of public finances on the expenditure and income side. What are you doing today? One fire-fighting measure, one substitute for a real estate tax that you do not even know of, or about, what effects it will have. And don't say anything concrete about what you're going to do on the expenditure side. That's a big difference, and that's why we're critical.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Pogačnik, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u56	Madam President, thank you for the floor. I have a replica to discuss with my colleague Pavlisic. If he was here defending expertise, I don't think he would have used those words he used in his debate. Above all, it is a mistake that he has now said in some way that the SDS is advocating some Balkan policy. Far from it. But in excise policy, we will always defend the fact that you have to look at the market and the surroundings around Slovenia. And why do Italy and Austria have higher prices, and why can they afford it? I suggest you look at the map of Italy and see which countries Italy borders. And that between 20 or more of the provinces Italy has, there are only two – Friuli-Venezia Giulia and Veneto – such that they probably have less tobacco consumption because they go to Slovenia to buy. And all the other provinces have no chance of buying tobacco products elsewhere. Look at the size of the Republic of Slovenia. Look at the border with Croatia, see the border with Austria, with Hungary. Here we say that it is the wrong policy and that it is also the wrong explanation. Those specific excise duties speaking for Austria, for Italy, for Croatia, ultimately do not say anything. I said that a market analysis should be done, the prices of the most selling tobacco products and, of course, the lowest prices. And once again, I'm going to show you this graph. This price is going to go down now. And that means that we will now reject the Austrian, who was from the nearest places at the Slovenian border, that he will no longer buy with us because it will not be worth it. The difference between Croatia, Serbia and Bosnia will increase. Moreover, the lowest price in Croatia is now 2.37 euros, in Slovenia before the increase in excise duty 2.95, in Austria 3.8. And the price goes down here. On the other hand, it's increasing. I would also like to ask representatives of the Ministry of Finance. Many times it has been exposed here, "your government raised excise duties in 2012" and "the excise law became fully effective in 2013". Does this law, adopted at the time by the government of Janez Janša and brought to Parliament by Dr. Janez Šušteršič, oblige you to raise your excise duties? Nowhere. You have the opportunity to adapt this excise policy to the situation. And I personally believe that when the raise was made, when the psychological price of cigarettes broke, it was a mistake. But you could fix that mistake. All indicators, all calculations, all numbers show that the sale of tobacco products in Slovenia is decreasing to reduce energy sales. And the price of fuel, look at this graph again, even though you said that government was lowering excise duties. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u57	Your replica's expired. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u58	energente [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u59	More than 3 minutes ago [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u60	These scissors are spreading and the price of the difference between Austria and Slovenian oil derivatives [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u61	Replica, Mr. Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u62	She's taller. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Shircel, you have the floor, three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u64	Thank you very much. The replica, of course, to Mr Pavlišič, mainly because I think he speaks quite generally, speaks quite in mind, speaks also a little provocatively, of course it is nothing wrong, I do not take it as if it were something wrong, but it is certainly far from the profession. And today to say that the Slovenian Democratic Party, by advocating the non-increasing of excise duties or the reduction of excise duties, is running a Balkan policy here, and so on what Mr Pavlisic is supposed to suggest is particularly misleading. Because he probably needs to know, I will also say something else that the Austrians are going to buy Slovenian cigarettes today in Ljubljana and probably elsewhere, because the price is so lower than in Austria. It is so much lower not only because of excise policy, but because the biggest manufacturers and cigarette traders run a different price policy for Austria, Italy, Great Britain or Luxembourg than for Slovenia. In Slovenia, the same cigarettes or similar cigarettes, probably even lower quality, are sold at a significantly lower price than in the UK, which is why there are so many differences in prices across Europe in the field of cigarettes and the share of the tax is still in it. When you have free movement of goods and when you have the opportunity to adjust excise duties in accordance with the European Union Directive, you must pursue a competitive excise policy. Competitively, consumption will increase in order to increase financial inflows to the budget. If you do not do so, if the state does not do so, if the government of Alenka Bratušek does not do so, then of course money from excise duties goes to another budget. And here, if you want, this thing is completely simple and there's no ideology behind it, it's not back to back any theoretical basis, it's pure pragmatism. How to get as much revenue as possible from the government. Certainly not as it works now, Mr Pavlisic, and probably at various times our country's excise policy was different, even because the economic situation was different and also because our country's competitive position was different. This needs to be adapted, which is why the state or government has the option. And now it is adapting mistakenly, in the wrong way, to the detriment of citizens and citizens, because it stands on the wrong assumption.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u65	Thank you very much. And Mr. Beznik with the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u66	As a matter of fact, I will not fool my friend Pavlišič into thinking, because I think, as Mr Šircelj said, that he is speaking completely in mind and also provoking. Look, it's somewhere on Laffer's curve. Here is Mr Šušteršič's policy, where he started with excise duties, here was this peak and the downward trend, here we are today, and here we will be about six months from now, Mr Pavlišič, and then there will be 70 million or 100 million less collected excise duties from the title of mainly foreigners who leave the money here. That's the story. You know, economics isn't just a mathematical model. As the government presented here today when she said that the Austrians have a little cheaper, they will still go to Slovenia. That's not true. In shopping habits, we go extremely strongly into psychological skills, we go to sociology, we go very strongly into social relations and you must also know Austria in ethics. If there is no significant price difference, Austria will opt for an Austrian product. It's not just about purchasing power, it's about ethics. It is a matter of personal ethics that they know that they are well aware of this as a nation, that they also maintain jobs in Austria. This is a strong awareness of Austria, this strong homogeneity of Austrian society. You also need to be aware of this when driving a tax policy. And excise policy goes through dynamic models, not static ones. You need to adapt to neighbouring countries at all times, and you should adapt even daily. For example, Austrians daily adjust the prices of oil derivatives in marginal gas pumps. That's what we're talking about today. It is not only through mathematical models, it is a whole range of factors that affect the purchasing habits of those people who decide to buy excise goods in the Republic of Slovenia. It's a pragmatism. Finally, it must be said that the trend shows that in this year's first two months we lost 5.5m euros on cigarettes again. Only in the first two months, respected colleagues and colleagues. Do we know what this trend is? It's growing tremendously. So it's growing to the negative. We're talking about a total drop in excise duty. And this year, more than 20 million less is likely to be seized if this trend grows. If you increase it again, I think it's going to increase to 30, 35 million. And that's what I'm pointing out today. I believe we can't think of anything. We need to monitor trends, we need to look at neighbouring countries, we need to monitor a whole range of factors that affect people's purchasing habits, and on this basis we can set up an optimized excise policy and an optimized model.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u67	Thank you very much. We've completed a wave of replicas with this. As a debater, Mr Marijan Pojbič has been declared.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. New tax, new tax, new tax, government of Alenka Bratusek. Ever since she took over the leadership of this country, this coalition has been a new tax, a new tax, and so on. Over and over. New taxes, new taxes, new taxes. I ask you kindly, a respected coalition, a respected government. To each of us sitting here in Parliament and most of our people, it is clear why the Government has proposed this excise law. Only for charging the state budget. It's exclusive. And by this law, he's trying to replace the fiasco of real estate law. I am fully convinced that this second excise law is a once again perfect fiasco committed by this government and again impaling an additional nail in a coffin. And I hope, seriously, on behalf of the Slovenian people, of the Slovenian people, that this is the last nail that this government puts in its coffin. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary of State and her philosophical debate – through some philosophy, she is trying to convince us to understand something that is unreasonable, even for an ordinary person or child who has four classes of primary school. Because there are inevitable and extremely clear numbers here. Dear colleagues and colleagues, numbers. I hope this government can read the numbers. If he can't read the numbers, then I wonder who we have in power, by God. And what do the numbers say? In 2013, at least EUR 50 million was collected from excise duties less than a year earlier. If we confirm this law, what will happen to the raising of excise duties by the end of this year? To this point, we have only collected EUR 5 million less excise duties in the first two months. And if we adopt this law, I am sure that by the end of the year this fiasco will be so large that it will not be replaced in any way. The financial hole will increase dramatically. And this government, instead of patching up a financial hole in the budget, increases it with such truly unacceptable, unthinkable and horrifying measures taken. Please, how long will you put such burden on Slovenian people, Slovenian people, Slovenian workers, entrepreneurs and craftsmen? Do you think that an increase in the price of fuel will not affect the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy? What a powerful effect this will have on jobs! Business is going down because they're on the verge of survival! Get in the company! Go to the entrepreneurs' tradesmen and you'll see what every cent means to them. And you want to convince us that we are not thinking properly, that we do not know what we are doing, that we are some Balkans and so on. Mr Pavlišič, this is really not funny, it is extremely irresponsible to say such things in the National Assembly. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are still aware of the actual situation and the situation in this country. And it is from this title that we are trying to do everything we can to make decisions, to improve the situation in this country, not to bury the Slovenian economy, the Slovenian worker, the farmer, not to say the pensioner and so on. And you are under the pretext that this is a health problem, to smoke too much with us and so on, you are trying to trick the Slovenian people, the Slovenian people and everyone sitting in Parliament. Well, believe me, the Slovenian Democratic Party and most of the Slovenian people will not! I'm sure you don't! Go to the Austrian border! Go to the Croatian border! Buddy Beznik talked about it today. See gas pumps – Slovenian car next to Slovenian car. I come from Šentil, Poets, Kungotes and those areas where people go thin, normal and logical, because it's much cheaper there. That's logical! And then to the store and all the other stuff. Instead of doing it in Slovenia, as it was during a time period, because I was from that area at home — the columns stood to buy cigarettes before these free shops or whatever they were called. Hey, hey, hey, hey, And where did that money go? To the Slovenian cashier's office. Instead of burdening the Slovenian man, our worker, our entrepreneurs and tradesmen, they carried Austrians, Croats and all the other money into the Slovenian budget. Not to say they went to the store, to lunch and so on. And if this government can overlook all of this and put it all on our man, our poor man who creates, who works, who fights, with minimum wage survives, if he can put all this stuff on this man, then I don't know where this government actually lives. Amazingly, truly, what bad things a government can do in such a short time as this government of Alenka Bratusek in power can remember and do for his own nation. It's a sad truth. And I pray to God, and I hope that the moment of truth will come as soon as possible, that we will cut it once, because this is no longer going anywhere. The economy is going to total ruin and we are additionally burdening it with such legislation. Instead of pumping everything that is possible out of the vast number of foreign citizens and citizens going through Slovenia, transit and everything else. To refuel, buy cigarettes, buy cigarettes in our stores, drink Slovenian drinks, drink Slovenian coffee and so on, and from this address via VAT and excise money into the Slovenian budget. No, this government decides to burden a Slovenian man who, as I said before, has a minimum wage, or a pensioner who has 300, 400 or 500 euros in pension. That's what the government's doing. That's what the government's doing. And look, just for an illustration. At this point, it's April 14th. 95-octane gasoline: Austria – 1.35 euros, Slovenia – 1.477 euros. Diesel: Austria – 1,31 euros, Slovenia – 1,366 euros. Let's take a look at Croatia. 95-octanic gasoline: Croatia – 1.44 euros, Slovenia – 1.477 euros. Also diesel: Croatia – 1,33 euros, Slovenia – 1,366 euros. And so on. So, I will support our amendment because I think it is justified, although I think that the law you proposed has nothing to look for in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u69	Thank you very much. There is more desire for a debate, so I will open the way for a debate. I'm asking you to sign up. We are discussing Articles 3 and 9. We have three more panellists to report. The first is Mr Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u70	Thank you very much. For starters, I'll support the amendment. You know, this debate and these explanations by the government in the National Assembly have, in fact, reminded me of the previous mandate, of one committee when different questions have been asked and the answers have always been the same. The answer is the same to the previous one. I'll explain. When you ask the government of Alenka Bratusek what it will do to start the economy, the answer is: taxes. What you will do in the area of self-care with agriculture is the same: taxes. What are you going to do for the trade? Taxes. What are you gonna do with health care? Taxes. The second part of the answers is to reduce the benefits that citizens and citizens have. I'll be a little more specific. With the change in excise duty, we are not only talking about the increase in excise duty, but the chain is opening here. We have three types on any product sold, namely excise duty, margin and VAT. Look what it means if someone doesn't buy a liter of gas at our place. At 1.5 euros, these three taxes – the secretary of state – are about to correct me, if I am wrong – according to my information about the euro. This means the derivative is half the euro and the euro is the three, i.e. excise duty, margin and VAT. So all of this stays somewhere else. Finding solutions to the real estate law in the way you did it is exactly the same breakdown as breaking the real estate law. Look, this one year, because this has already been said several times, i.e. for 8 billion debt, even some debt in stock and of course with catastrophic interest, because today we have 10% of the total budget for interest alone. If we can only remember what you've done with these duties in the last year since you've been in power. From raising VAT to raising RTV contributions, you stopped the tax drop from legal persons' incomes, which means that you actually drove away investors, raised health contributions rates. Freeze coordination of the income scale. That sounds so good, some freezing, but actually that means raising your income. The Constitutional Court stopped you in your madness, in your stupidity with the property tax, and it didn't allow you to do that. Look, with a debt of 8 billion in one year, you've raised taxes, if I can bear it, for about 300 to 400 million extra interest taxes, that's exactly what citizens are going to have to pay. And, of course, you are now doing cardinal stupidity because you are raising excise duties to rates that will virtually destroy the budget surplus due to lower sales, precisely because of the reduction of the competitiveness of Slovenian trade. And that's certainly not good. Also because of what I'm telling you because we have a margin and VAT next to our excise duty. The gambling tax, the guilt you've been exasperating, the registration of vehicles, because there's probably more to it, and I don't remember all of it. In fact, in Europe, you cannot actually compare our countries after how much taxes have been raised recently, how much the country has owed and, of course, by the catastrophicly low standard of living of our people. We have recently watched television, listened to terribly sad stories when people go to work and work, but they don't get to survive, but they have to go for social assistance both on the Karitas and on the Red Cross, and these two also get power, even though we get, as it was said, two thirds of these stocks from abroad. After all this story, I hope it's over very soon. My friend Pojbich used to say that you're putting your last nail in a coffin of rule. You don't put your nails in the coffin of rule, you certainly don't, but you put a nail in the citizens and citizens of this country's head and that's the problem. If you'd put a nail in your coffin and that would be the end of it, I would have supported it. Some hope is, many times I was angry at stupidity, I mean right at stupidity, but I was angry, and of course I get angry, when some unjustifiably can rob the country, they're involved in systemic corruption, the institutions tell them that, but of course nothing happens, but this time I think that if anyone else has feelings for this country, it is – you'll probably be surprised to hear it from my mouth – Zoran Jankovic. Zoran Jankovic is still the last hope for this country, because this will be followed by the government's adjective Maria. The new parliamentary elections are followed and, of course, the composition will be such that it can begin to create conditions for the economy, trade, agriculture, of course, and these will be conditions for employment. Once we have this, of course, certain taxes will definitely need to be reduced immediately in the beginning in such a way as to bring new investors and investments into the economy. This is the only solution, and I hope it stays to the end, as he has decided. I read somewhere, "Unless you arrest him and lock him up in front of Congress," and if you haven't done so yet, it would probably be justified, given what we know, you won't do it at the last minute. Last but not least, Madam Secretary of State, I appreciate you as an expert and I know that you are very capable. If I was a minister myself, I'd be happy to have you on my right side. But you're here at work now, serving some kind of policy, unfortunately, not citizens and citizens. By the way, today, when I came to Parliament, I heard inside this house in the hallway from ladies that it is not a coincidence that today the President and Minister Chufer are in England or that there are other private conversations with this official work. Since he's so "good" in charge of this country with such enormous interest, he's offered a very good dream service, perhaps even [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u71	Mr Pukšič, you can focus on paragraphs 3 and 9 or amendments to this article, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u72	in the United States of America. [[…]] Yeah, of course, it's also linked to excise duty, but maybe it'll be registered here, and he'll be paying his income here. We will be able to lower excise duties and, of course, if we lower them, other foreigners will also be buying here. And if he's going to have a crazy big pay, he might also bring something here, so I welcome that if Minister Chufer is really saying goodbye and going to the United States of America. The problem of all that has accumulated, last but not least, the implementation of a bad bank, a catastrophic contract for some 30, 35,000 euros for weekly counselling and so on. Look, Madam Secretary of State, you cannot put all this on the shoulders of our citizens and citizens. On the other hand, as far as cigarettes and alcohol are concerned, I don't have any concerns, but as they say, that's why certain things don't stop. And, of course, we could set an example for others who have the geostrategic position that Slovenia has. Luxembourg is one of such countries. They can turn there to get as much in the cash register as possible, of course there is a completely diametric contradiction with us, but of course all of this is because of everything I've talked about before. It has been a while since we were in Luxembourg with the local community visiting one of the municipalities and when we met, it has been the biggest problem for the mayor of this Luxembourg municipality to spend money. How to spend money. I said to him: "Listen, we will solve this problem for you, come with us and there will be no more problems, because in Slovenia we will know him." Not for stupidity, because the vast majority of Slovene municipalities, we can say about 90%, have more than excused their creation, especially those smaller ones have even more excused it. Before that, there were some indications that we were defending the South, not the North, but sometimes it is good to follow the South. In Serbia and Croatia, they can step on their thieves and lead them to prisons. We haven't done it yet. That is why, unfortunately, Madam Secretary of State, you are mainly making moves that distance us from Europe, which distance us from our neighbours, and, worst of all, you are pushing our citizens and citizens into a pit of poverty. I hope and sincerely wish that your governments would end before this law enters into force.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The excise law is the arrogant response of the government to the collapse of the real estate law. A raise in excise duty won't fill the budget. This financial impact, or revenue, will certainly not be in our national budget. Look, this can be imagined by a completely simple person, the only contractor I don't think he understands. The essence of excise duties is where the excise flow of money or the tax flow will be directed, the tax share of these funds. Either this cash flow will target the budget or it will target the black market in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, either at home or in the budgetary cash flows of neighbouring countries. How and how we regulate the flow of this excise duty work depends exclusively on the price of these products. Here we need to be extremely careful, extremely precise, with an exceptional analysis of the market, where the real price is that the country does not actually lose its share. That's the point of excise duty. And so it is not possible to place on the same denominator the price of excise duties on oil, alcoholic beverages or cigarettes. In short, each area is extremely dependent on the market and the price in these markets, both at home and abroad. Here, with an extremely precise and precise rate of price of these products, the maximum or excise duty should be set up to the maximum where the financial impact in the domestic budget is the largest. That's the point of excise duty. However, your case is an example of a non-professional, ad hoc approach to this excise law and the impact on the state budget will decrease absolutely. That is why, of course, I support our amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and distinguished colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Finance! First of all, I will say that the proposed amendments are still worth considering and also supporting. If I start with what we probably all agree on, by stating that the genealogy of this novel is certainly in the fall of the property tax law, which was repealed by the Constitutional Court. That I will not, or that the opposition will not only be critical, I will make another point, which has a bitter taste. And that is the conclusion that Alenka Bratusek sometimes tells the truth. Why the bitter taste? Because the President of the Government on 28 March, when the real estate tax law fell in the Constitutional Court, said the following. "The government has some possible solutions, but they will be more painful and less just for citizens." This was highlighted by Alenka Bratušek in response to the decision of the Constitutional Court, which repealed the Real Estate Tax Act. The truth. Truth with bitter taste. The government of Alenka Bratušek began to come to the National Assembly with measures that will be truly less just and more painful and will not look at anyone, will not look at a low pension, at low wages, because people have cars, even pensioners have cars, and even those who have minimum wages have cars, because the car is now necessarily evil and must refuel and fuel is being auctioned. And another thing that is not true, of course, is something else that we call a lie, some of the most visible representatives of this coalition were at the end of last year or just before the beginning of this year, 2013 saying: "Yes, in 2013 everything will be different. It will be all oh and everything will be great, it will be nice, there will be no new taxes and there will be no increases in existing taxes." Is that true? No, that's a lie. Those who said so broke their promise after nearly three months. I am surprised that this government still has 20% of its support. I'm surprised. How to trust someone who predicts better times three months ago, without new burdens on citizens, and then that's exactly what's going on. So it's a completely different kind of talk from action. Although I have been a sincere advocate of the so-called smoking law, which we have adopted after a broad debate in the 2004-2008 mandate. Even then, there was much opposition from the opposition back then. At least as far as the budget of the Republic of Slovenia is concerned, of course, there were completely different times. These were the times when the then finance minister, Dr. Andrej Bajuk, published the budget surplus. It's a budget surplus. When will we, or will we ever, face a budget surplus? Yes, it was the time of Dr. Andre Bajuk's Finance Minister. Some have forgotten about him. By the way, he was also a European finance minister. In Nova Slovenije, we expected the government, in addition to the measures to compensate for the projected real estate tax income, to provide solutions to reduce the cost of the budget. Unfortunately, however, there are no rationalisations that would reduce the cost side of the budget. The revenue side is also losing momentum on the effective collection of taxes and on the control of the issuance of invoices last year, and I would like to stress that greater efforts are needed to strengthen citizens' awareness of the necessity to pay taxes, as the benefits of the greatest possible coverage of taxes are universal. I'm talking about tax culture, but you won't if taxes come in this way to the National Assembly, as brought by the government of Alenka Bratušek. Unfortunately, this tax culture will not exist. Today, colleagues and colleagues have said in the debate, and I also agree with this that it is highly likely that this excise law will increase the grey economy and the black economy. With the black economy, I get to join the black holes. Black holes that suck up all the light, photons. The black economy, however, is sucking up money that should have landed in the state budget. I listened to the morning reports today. Known economists point out that the problem will be the enforcement of this excise law, so that the grey economy will become even more hot. And again, what does this government say? She predicted an unmerciful fight against the grey economy. Yeah, how? How? Once again, I note the government's promise that there will be no additional taxes this year, but, as has been said many times today, the government has broken this promise by submitting the bill under consideration. We do not know how many such breakovers the Slovenian population will experience. But it probably depends on April 25th, which is Friday this week. I would like to draw attention to what we discussed last September at a joint meeting of the three committees, namely the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment and the Committee on Infrastructure and Space. The meeting focused on the Green Budget Reform and the possibilities for reducing the deficit of the state budget by a green budget reform. I am also sorry to see so little of Minister Cuffer at our meetings, and in some ways I regret that Mrs State Secretary, whom I also respect, as many of you have already talked about today, has to listen to all of this, and the Minister comes and is even at the point of the agenda of the National Assembly when the questions on the agenda are being sent, is always only a few minutes away. So dialogue with him simply cannot be established. And I wonder if we are able to at least unify ourselves that Slovenia is a transit country and, as we spoke at this joint meeting in September, that transit truck traffic is destroying our roads and environment? And is it even possible to bind the government to bring transit truck traffic to the railways by some date, for example by the end of 2015, 2016? Is that possible? Whether anyone has done any study or doctoral dissertation in economic colleges, I do not know if this will be a happy term now, i.e. on the economy of the transit state of Slovenia. This is very important. We've talked about this a lot today. We really do have trucks carrying Slovenia without stopping unless the tachograph calls them for a break and they're in the neighbouring countries. Ask the economists at Dars, we have good economists there, and they'll tell you exactly how much we lose when we don't know how to go through the economy of a transit country. I don't know if the government has done any simulations under this excise law and, of course, regulations that determine the price of fuel if it has done any consultation with Darsa experts who have accurately listed trucks that feed Slovenia daily. Do we benefit from this? We've got damage. We've definitely got it. Before we can repay the loans that the state has rented or for which the guarantee has been made for the construction of motorways, it is likely that reconstruction of these motorways will be necessary. And we didn't destroy them. Transit, so foreign traffic, destroyed them. However, we cannot, of course, close borders on transit transport, because we are a member of the EU, but it is precisely that we are a transit country because of such a geostrategic position that we should be able to take advantage of. I'm sorry we don't know that. But the answer is simple, it's in the palm of your hand. These political turbulences and games within the coalition certainly destroy the last reform potential that we expect from this coalition from this government. This probably won't happen, and Slovenia's not good at writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u77	Thank you very much. I ask if there is still a desire to discuss Articles 3 and 9 or amendments. All I see is Mr. Franzege. Here you go, Mr. Frangež, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u78	Mr. Visac, do you have a problem? [[adverts from benches]] I believe so. Behind us is a rich debate of different views, this was to be expected. I would like to say that I am absolutely not in secret that we are largely confronted by the change in this law because of the fate of the real estate tax. Remember that on the day following the decision of the Constitutional Court, the Government examined several alternatives on the expenditure and income side. A very clear “no” increase in value added tax has led to a deeper search for alternative solutions. And it is undeniable that raising some excise duties is part of an attempt to partially replace fiscal failure. Not entirely, of course, it will be necessary to look for reserves, savings also on the expenditure side. Taxes, however, are not limited to fiscal purposes. Taxes are also intended for society to promote desirable practices and to discourage people from unwanted practices. And today we are witnessing the government's attempt to replace the planned property tax funds by raising excise duties and at the same time deterring consumers from doing so. At least on the issue of alcohol and tobacco consumption, this can be confirmed. Although I am constantly disturbed by one question on this issue. And that's why we don't have some excise goods in this country. Of course, what are the concerned winemakers going to be sensitive to this question, but I don't understand exactly where the difference between a syringe and a bottle of beer is. Both are alcohol, both of which have a rich tradition in Slovenia, if you want, both are part of one of our ethnographically defined character, but in certain circumstances, especially if you consume one or the other too much, it leads to side effects. We have a problem with alcoholism in this country. And I really wonder why it is not possible in this country to consider introducing excise duties on wine in view of the need for wine and winemaking in this country. I am not saying that these should be extremely high at the start and that this would force either winemakers or consumers to find alternatives, fail and so on. I am talking about the fact that this area is largely undetected today and that we know each other in this Parliament, especially in its wine lobby, it is very appropriate to resist the attempt to properly record and regulate the traffic in wine. I must say that I have been in contact with some distinguished winemakers who are interested in the fact that the country is actually starting to regulate this area with some moderate excise policy. Also because we have an extremely strong field of grey economy in this field. I am sorry that the Government has not recognized this challenge, and even as part of the excise measures that are ahead of us today, it has not proposed a few measures on this subject. [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, Mr. Visac, I'm a Squire. [[advertising from the hall]] A Styrian from Maribor. And I say that this is one of the fields which is not regulated in this country for various reasons and I think it would be appropriate to regulate them. In doing so, I will continue to drink my children or spritzer with pleasure, and I see no economically sound reason why I would not pay the appropriate excise duty for these children if I paid it on children's beer. Andrei of Styria, I hope you know how to answer that. Because I don't see the logic of it. I can't see. And I hope that we will both agree that drinking wine under certain conditions, especially if it lacks moderation, is as harmful as eating beer. Is there a difference? It's both alcohol. [[advertising from the hall]] How? One grows in the ground? Please, where does the hop grow? Where does the hop grow? But I agree in one point with my colleague Horvato. My colleague Horvat pointed out that months ago, we will now be talking about the green budget reform at a joint meeting of the three committees, six months ago, if not already six months ago. As you know, the important Slovenian environmental non-governmental organisation has prepared a report in which it calculated significant savings if it knew about the Slovenian state budget either by taking measures on the revenue side or by reducing some subsidies on the expenditure side to generate significant savings. At that meeting, it was decided that the government would carefully examine this material, the findings in the debate on these committees, and I may have overlooked some document in the stockpiling of the papers we receive, but I do not recall that this decision of the government would have been realized. I do not recall the fact that within three months the Government would actually prepare any response to the conclusions of that joint meeting of the three committees. And I would like to point out that, in the context of finding alternatives to fiscal evasion due to real estate tax, this is also another missed opportunity. And perhaps it would be good to hear from the government today what happened to those answers and why this is a field where water has apparently been scarce to take Slovenia forward. Even in the context of what I believe should lead, not only budget policy, but tax policy as a whole. Rewarding good practices and building and punishing bad practices. In the excise measures we are facing today – I will support them because I understand that fiscally there are no significantly more favourable and smarter alternatives – for example, the government has decided not to pay for the biodiesel purchased from now on. [[advertising from the hall]] Allow me to unify the debate briefly and I will not speak later unless, of course, I am provoked to do so. I do not understand exactly why in this country we have such a generous reimbursement of excise duties for some energy buyers. Returning biodiesel, which, according to some opinion, could be said to be a desirable fossil fuel, because it is renewable, of course it also has some side effects, especially in the fact that good agricultural land instead of food production is devoted to fuel production, but why do we decide to stop returning to biodiesel, but we do not change the issue of returning energy paid for transport? I know that every government is fighting organised truckers, and I myself know Mr Andrej Klobasa, who likes to threaten with any prisons in the capital, and this is, of course, a real threat, but it is also a need to talk and negotiate, because these same carriers also have fully justified and legitimate expectations that the country will settle a certain issue and, on the other hand, the country also has a corner about whether it will do anything on excise policy. Because I am disturbed by one question, and this is a question of equality before the law. Why can't Jože Horvat, who drives daily from Prekmurje to Ljubljana and the thin same diesel, get this diesel and paid excise duty back? Why, though, does a carrier who is actually carrying out his economic activity get this excise duty partly refunded? Why are we inequitable before marriage? Let us not forget, too, these are incentives that, in fact, Slovenia is working for an attractive transit country and from this transit, as you can see, Slovenia actually has nothing but damage. And I agree that, as a transit country, we should also have one strategy of our transit policy, and this issue should start in vineyards where we have long abandoned the principle of 'polluter pays'. And we do not only have highways to repay them, in many countries highways are also designed to create a financial surplus for the country. In Slovenia, obviously, because of the need for a certain option to win the 2008 elections, we resigned. And even today, although there have been some shifts in this direction, we have in transit an average excisely burdened transit. I think you just need to look at these things for real. I'm sorry, I don't see any big idea differences here, no matter what the opposition says, so far all governments have been raising excise duties to solve the fiscal outcome of this country. Everything. From Pahoreva, who was subjected to sharp criticism by Janša's opposition to Janša's government and, yes, also by the governments of Alenka Bratušek. For all, in certain cases, and in fact, as a constant, they also raised the excise burden of fuels. That is why I think that this creates some conditions for us to talk about this relatively soberly and unburdenedly and to really see whether, with the excise policy we have, we create more harm than on the other hand. I am completely open to this debate, but of course it will be necessary to add another challenge to this debate, and this is a question of how to lead the fiscal consolidation of this country, taking into account the fact that they represent excise duties as an indispensable source of this state budget. So I will not support the proposed amendments of the opposition at this point, because I understand that the proposed excise policy is an emergency exit, which we are facing because of the familiar decisions of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Pogačnik wanted a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u80	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Just so much for a colleague of mine, Mr. Frangejo. It says 2014 as well. You've been in the government for a year. You're a member of the coalition, and I don't understand why you didn't put this amendment on wine. Here you had a 20-minute debate, and I think if that were the case, you could convince your coalition colleagues. You have scissors and linen in your hands. With regard to the consolidation of public finances and the budget, I will once again give you some thought, before you support the SDS amendment, because I think that the SDS amendment provides higher revenue for the excise budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Another replica. Here you go, Mr. Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u82	Thank you very much. If I am happy about something, I am pleased when Members and, in particular, Mr Frangež say their clear position. I am pleased with Mr Frangež's very clear position, which by the way comes from one of the three wine-growing countries, this is from Podravje, specifically from Maribor, that he advocates the introduction of excise duties on wine and asks himself, in fact, to mention even me, how the fact that they have not been introduced so far and what is the difference between excise duty on beer and why there is no excise duty on wine from this title. For a simple reason, Mr. Frangež. Through excise policy, the government policy in general is also reflected to certain sectors of the economy. If we take the economy in a broader sense and include agriculture, it is very clear that Slovenia is a wine-growing country, that there is a huge Slovenian countryside planted with vineyards, that many people live out of it and, of course, that the competition of wine in Slovenia, in particular from some neighbouring countries in the south, is such that, of course, the existence of this industry is questionable if we go to a retail market with excise duties in a different direction or direction than you suggest. It is said that domestic wine and all these producers would also be subject to these excise duties. Let me remind you, Mr Frangež, that wine can also be bought across the border, as is the purchase of cigarettes that we are talking about today, if you think so, because on the Slovenian market all wine products would, of course, be subject to excise duties. I know this is what you wanted, but I want to tell you that this would make Slovenian wine products less competitive on Slovenian shelves than on foreign shelves, says abroad. So, I want to tell you that this also paints one policy that is not only close to this government, which has been close to all the governments so far, so there has never been any spending on wine in Slovenia. And not just that. I am very pleased with your position, and I hope that the motorists will listen to you, so that you will be happy to tax or withdraw this right of reimbursement of the part of the excise duty on motorists, and thus even the economic sector will fall into completely different livelihoods and conditions. Look, Mr Frangež, such simple proposals as you have are close to this government. It proposes something without analysing the effects and without seeing the consequences that could be devastating for the parts, not only the economies, but also the Slovenian countryside. And if you're serious, then put in an amendment, but you're not, so you want some bubbles here. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u83	Time for the replica is up.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u84	In fact, upset a lot of people who look at us and send us. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u85	Thank you very much. I can still see the desire for a debate. Anyone else besides Mr. Frange? Here you go, Mr. Frangezh.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u86	Maybe we got the wrong idea, Mr. Visac. First of all, these are not easy suggestions. In fact, in the context of excise policy in the field of energy, I referred to the joint meeting of the three committees, where the policy with a relatively high majority supported the conclusions that within three months the government should prepare its views on the proposals for a green budget reform, which is also an important part of the issue of excise policy. It's not a game of horrifying, it's not taking measures overnight, it's a very reasonable time for three months. As my colleague Horvato and I have determined, this time has already been exceeded several times. That is why, today, publicly at the meeting of the National Assembly, I recall those conclusions and I think that the Government is still obliged and responsible to give the conclusions of that debate an appropriate answer, by calculations, analytically, not in mind, because it is easy to imagine a policy, and I am also taking this into account in the context of these issues, which I am also aware of the competitiveness of the Slovenian Automobile, of course. And if I can sum up some of my views from the debate at that time, I think that it is not overnight to abolish subsidies, but yes, to suggest some political will that gradually, over a longer period of time, we still create some fiscal savings. You know, you like to talk about that alternatives, say the drop in property tax, are also downsizing subsidies from the state budget. However, you often refer to subsidies granted by the State to the economy because you probably consider them to be market disturbances in accordance with a very liberal approach. Many economists are heard to note that, in fact, they are not economically meaningful, but we are talking here about a pure form of subsidy where the recipient does not need to show any desirable social behaviour, but only the fact that thin diesel is necessary. And that's it. And that's why he gets his allowance back. Mr Vizjak, you as a citizen – and as far as I know, you drive daily between your home and Ljubljana – do not get this excise refund. I mean, here are some questions that are only meant to be enlightened and from the Government to demand that what it was committed to deliver, of course. Just a little bit of wine. I prefer to drink good wine to children than beer, but I must also find that brewery in Slovenia has a rich tradition, that we have an extremely strong brewery industry in this country, and as far as I know, in fact, your government has been very fond of this industry. Let me remind you, in very strange and untransparent circumstances, one brewery also sold some sort of watch, including the biggest store in the country and so on. So I believe it would make sense to shed light on this aspect as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u87	Thank you very much. I think we have now concluded the debate on Articles 3 and 9 or amendments. We are moving on to Article 7 and the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please, if anyone wants to discuss this, I am opening the way for a discussion. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Visjak, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Your Honor! This article and our amendment refer to the Government's ambition to collect part of excise revenue by not returning excise duty to distributors or producers for the share of biofuels in conventional fossil fuels. So if we make it very simple, distributors or sellers who sell fuel to us at gas stations get a share of biofuels in the fuel they sell back. So they get what they blended into fossil fuels, which, by the way, is imported, because we don't have oil companies that draw oil and have refineries, so we import oil derivatives. At home, we produce biodiesel and bioethanol and mix it according to European Union regulations into fuel sold at pumps, and then for the share of biofuels, the distributors get the excise duty back. Why is that? Because biofuel production is more expensive and also mixing, as well as storage and, last but not least, all handling of these biofuels is more expensive than the costs of conventional fossil fuels, and consequently this subsidy is necessary and logical because it is a provision that this must happen. Of course, now the government says it will take that away. The issue would still be logical if we could, since these subsidies will no longer be available to distributors – this refund of excise duty, do not read the subsidy – of course, raise prices for their costs if we could put prices on the market according to their costs. But no. See, in the reform programme, the government has written down how it will also introduce corporate governance or corporate governance. Look at this interestingness – we have regulated prices in fuel traders. Fuel traders cannot adapt to the market at a price, they have a price by the Government, as an important part of the price is also a margin and an important part of the price is excise duty. Now the government has taken away these merchants, these distributors part of the excise duty that they have received so far, from filling their budget. This means that it has had a direct impact on the company's business economy and that the company cannot do anything about it. Nothing. He can't adapt to it because someone actually took something from his pocket that he had so far. Private-owned companies also have private shareholders. And you're telling me about some rise in corporate governance culture. That the Government directly influences business operations by administrative measures and thus the pockets of shareholders, which may also be small shareholders, large or whatever. In short, this matter is not in line with the fundamental culture of corporate governance, and without the Government even talking to those affected by it, it simply does. Once again, I don't mind taking this subsidy if the company has any other measures to compensate for it. That's one thing I want to say. Second thing. Let me draw attention again to the lack of analysis of the effects of these proposed excise levies. Why have oil companies or distributors been entitled to the refund of biofuels? Because they have also provided them under the directive and have actually met some of the environmental objectives adopted by the EU. The government does not at all analyse the effects of this move on whether these environmental objectives, which we have to provide, are to what extent, in its bill or in the excise law that we are proposing and adopted today. Are the distributors going to mix this up, or are they going to cheat? And what other measures will the Government take to ensure that the actual biofuel content in fuels is to the appropriate extent? Is she going to tighten her control? Where's she gonna sharpen it? How? Who's gonna do this? For the first time, the issue of government involvement at regulated prices arises, I stress, in business operations and secondly, in meeting the environmental objectives that we are obliged to respect. I think that's something she should be warned about. Please do not compare Slovenia with Germany, where they have abolished subsidies for biofuels, of course, because the Germans can raise fuel prices because they do not have regulated fuel prices. However, we have concrete fuel prices or prices under the authority of the Government and at the same time interfere with the revenues of these companies, which are distributors on the Slovenian market. And we say that this is a new culture of corporate governance and respect for, say, small shareholders or anyone. And last but not least, I believe that because you can't know the impact of this move directly on the prices of petroleum derivatives, because just like I said, the government regulates these prices. However, this will certainly be known in the business of this company and at the prices of other services that these companies, i.e. oil distributors, are doing. Let's take a closer look at Petrol. In addition to selling petroleum derivatives and other products on petrol pumps, Petrol is the co-owner of half of the GEN-I, it is said to be a company selling electricity to others. Prices are not regulated there. Why don't we use this channel to make up for the damage, which means the electricity will get irritable because of that, of course, Petrol will follow. Or Petrol, who is the most important, not the largest, individual, but the important owner of Geoplin. Geoplin is a natural gas critter in this country and does not think that what you are doing will have no effect on the pockets of Slovenes and Slovenians. We'll pay for it anyway. And here you claim in your impact assessment that this will have no effect on the people's pockets. It will! But in this way, as I have instructed you, it can give you an even more sophisticated way, because society will not let you take away 30 million under some of the obligations it has, and it cannot replace it with other measures. Once again, I ask you, is this your culture of corporate governance in line with the 2014-2015 reform programme?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss Article 7? Mr. Marko Pavlišič, please. Amendment of SDS to Article 7.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. Here we are talking about a subsidy for biofuels, and when it has some bio-labelling, it is important to be very careful. You know that thing about apples. The big ones and the pretty ones are ordinary, the little ones, and the little ones are apples. This fuel is similar and we need to find out where this biofuel is coming from, which is mixed in Slovenia. According to my data, it comes from Malaysia and Indonesia, which is made of palm oil, and as a result, springs are cut out in these places. Here we have to look into the truth in the eyes, and the other truth about it is, as the recent study has shown, the media say that biofuels may be better spent in the long run, but that they currently produce 7% more emissions than regular petrol and therefore "they must not be among less harmful and renewable sources". This will have to be borne in mind when we talk about whether these subsidies should be retained or should be abolished. And as we have already discussed in the previous debate concerning excise duties, it is necessary to monitor what is happening in a particular area and then react accordingly. And this is what this reaction is all about. Biofuels have been some mode over the last few years, but now real data have shown that this mode was not appropriate and therefore a policy change in this area needs to be made. I'm glad you mentioned this about subsidies and the influence of shareholders. Let's ask ourselves, do we really have subsidies in this country to subsidize shareholders' profits? Is that the real purpose of the subsidy? Yes, of course the abolition of subsidies has an impact on the business outcome of companies, but do we really need companies that will have their business outcome due to subsidies? When we had a debate on whether to raise VAT or what to do now that VAT has not been raised, which we made clear in the Civil Gazette, it was one of the main comments of the economy or economic measures to reduce subsidies. And yes, here I absolutely agree. Subsidizing someone to work may even make sense, but in most cases it doesn't make sense. And as you yourself said, this is nothing more than subsidisation of shareholders, even if we look back at what the actual environmental effects of such subsidisation are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Vizjak has been declared responsible for the debate. A replica? It's a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u92	Firstly, I am actually surprised that Mr Pavlisic does not run for the European Member, which is European policy. [[advertising from the hall]] Well, either he's running, but in the last or the last place. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, yeah, you'll have three. What you are saying is part of European policy. These are commitments that have been made. The share of biofuels must be in fuels. Over, over, over. Mr Pavlišič, if you care more about palm forests than for the Slovenian budget, then God help us, but this is part of European policy and we, the respected Mr Pavlišič, have rules to bind oil distributors to sell on the Slovenian market, in the Balkans or outside these commitments, do not hold that biofuels must be mixed into other fuels. That's what they say. We've given them authority over something. It is clear that these fuels are held, which is also what the representative of the Chamber of Commerce told you on the committee. Well, we don't subsidize someone to stay or to be able to, but because we prescribed something for him to do. And it's fair to prescribe some non-economic behaviour for higher reasons, for reasons of environmental protection, to compensate him. That's how it was all over the world. And that was no longer the case around the world when things stabilized when these costs, investments for this mix-up and this production destroyed. If regulated prices are available, the oil trader could then also adjust prices on the market. And we regulate the prices and regulations of more expensive behaviour for oil traders, and you say that this is some subsidy you're against. I am also against subsidies that undermine the market. It will be difficult to convince me, however, if you are in charge, to prescribe that someone should use some ingredients that are more expensive, but at the same time you do not compensate. That's what we're talking about. And once again, it's not the fashion of the last few years, it's the rules, it's to be respected.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u93	Thank you very much. A representative of the Government of Mag has also been reported for the discussion. Matthew the Vranic, then we'll discuss the rest.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. A few words about the amendment first. Article 7 repeals the Regulation on the payment of excise duty on energy products added to biofuels. Thus, it is the repeal of the technical regulation resulting from the repeal of Article 54.c of the law. The proposed amendment, which says that this rule should not be abolished as of the day of the entry into force of the law, but at some point in the future, I think the end of 2020 actually makes no sense. As regards the obligation of fuel distributors in Slovenia to supply biofuels, it is not true that they are obliged to mix biofuels into fossil fuels. It is their duty to ensure a certain proportion of the sales of biofuels, given the quantity of sales of fossil fuels on the market. And mixing biofuels with diesel fuel is only one form of biofuel supply on the Slovenian market. At the time of the introduction of this obligation, the subsidy for such behaviour was also reasonable. We have introduced something similar in connection with the purchase of more environmentally appropriate buses and trucks using Euro 6 engines. As long as this standard was not binding, it made sense by way of subsidies, by way of tax exemptions, to encourage motorists to purchase and benefit from such vehicles. When the Euro 6 standard became a commitment on 1 January this year, such a subsidy would lose its meaning. The same is true of the subsidy for mixing biofuels with fossil fuels. At the time of the imposition of the measure, or at the time of the introduction of the possibility of such mixed fuel appearing on the market, it is reasonable to encourage biofuels to interfere. After certain years, it is necessary to review the impact or impact on actual consumption of biofuels compared to tax spending, i.e. by lower tax payments. And the government's assessment was, in reviewing all the subsidies we give in the field of excise duty, that this is the subsidy where this causal link is the most fragile or where it can be cut down by a measure of withdrawal without significantly affecting or aggravating the situation of those who actually place biofuels on the market. In this context, we have also reviewed all the measures proposed in the field of excise policy in relation to the so-called green fiscal reform referred to by Ambassador Horvat and Frangež, and have found that, for example, if they had abolished the commercial diesel scheme, which was also discussed today, this would have been a deficit of €62 million for the budget. So much is contributed with excise duties by foreign motorists, who, due to the scheme, buy commercial diesel fuel in Slovenia, get returned 40 million, but if this scheme were to be abolished, there would be an effect to which you have essentially warned, and therefore we have not proposed this proposal. Similarly, for the other two subsidies known in the field of excise duty, the applicable excise legislation has recovered excise duty for stationary machinery, including railway rolling stock and cableway equipment, and a refund for agricultural and forestry machinery. Taking into account the analysis carried out, this subsidy was assessed that the main effect of the subsidy is to reduce the revenues of the State budget and that the subsidy itself has less impact on the provision of an appropriate quantity of biofuels on the Slovenian market and that the required amount of biofuels on the Slovenian market can be secured even after so many years of the transitional period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Pavlišič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. Mr. Visjak, I thank you for your concern for my candidacy. We are somehow agreed to run for office in the third place and thank you in advance for all the support and also your voice, because I believe you are deep inside the soul as an engineer as well as a liberal, so thank you very much in advance. There's been a lot of talk about subsidisation. Petrol made 84 million profits last year, this is likely to affect some way of their outcome, but economic policy, where the business outcome of companies is based on subsidies and these have a very strong impact on the business outcome, is certainly not a real economic policy. And here we have to change this way of doing things. As to how much this is a European policy and how much not, since this is still changing, I would say that if this were indeed a European directive, then we would not have the power to change it at all. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Visjak, do you have a replica or a debate? Here you go. You have a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u98	I don't have much time. So, Mr Pavlišič, don't be afraid, I won't support you in the elections, neither will your first candidate or the one in the first place. But there's one thing I want to tell you. Oil traders and distributors have several business sectors and create different business outcomes, and as a rule, where things are regulated, create worse business outcomes, you will also go to see the decline in sales of oil derivatives in the Republic of Slovenia. So, Madam Secretary of State, your theories would hold everything if the prices of oil derivatives in Slovenia were not regulated. Indeed, it makes sense to subsidise something that the state prescribes, and a business entity cannot do otherwise than to do so. And in the case of oil distributors in Slovenia it is. They also deregulated this obligation and the refund of excise duties abroad, as they all had to adapt after a transitional period. In Slovenia, however, they have the prescribed prices and therefore have all the business required and I would like to point out that this is a very low culture of corporate governance.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to discuss it under Article 7? As I see there is no desire for a debate, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 7th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, it's an evocative proposal for a law amending the laws on military veterans in the short run. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Here you go, Mrs. Martina Wolf.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The proposed amendments to the War Veterans Act, which are before you today, relate to two areas of legal regulation, namely, the granting of the status of societies in the public interest to associations of war veterans and the financing of their activities from the state budget and the right to health care for war veterans. As regards the area of the granting of the status of society acting in the public interest and the financing of activities, we bring responsibilities and public funding to the Ministry of Defence. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has so far granted the status of a society acting in the public interest in the field of war veterans, nine societies or associations co-financed under the annual contracts, namely, to carry out activities in the field of socio-health care for membership, to preserve historical tradition, to care for the maintenance of war graves and for international activities. Most associations or associations of war veterans also have a public interest status at the Ministry of Defence, which some associations of war veterans and societies in the field of defence and protection have already been considered, and we have therefore decided that, due to the substantive linkage, uniformity and transparency of the treatment and co-financing of the activities of these companies, whose joint basis of action is the past or current defence and protection of the Republic of Slovenia, the delegation of powers shall take place. The transfer of powers will also transfer funds to co-finance the activities of associations and associations of war veterans, and therefore the transfer itself does not represent financial consequences in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. These changes, i.e. both the status transfer and funding, have been fully aligned with civil society and the Ministry of Defence. With regard to the area of the rights of war veterans to health care, it is proposed that war veterans may regain the right which has been abolished by the Public Finance Balance Act. In compliance with the age condition, war veterans had the right to cover healthcare costs, i.e. to cover the costs of supplementary health insurance from public funds. This right was granted only to socially weak war veterans, i.e. those eligible or eligible for a veteran supplement, by the adoption of the ZUJF. With the proposed amendments, once adequate economic growth is ensured in the Republic of Slovenia, the right to health care from public funds is recognised again for all war veterans, irrespective of the amount of benefits they otherwise have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the chairman of the Committee, Dr Andrei Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Madam Secretary of State with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues, very nice greeting! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities, as a working mother, considered the proposal for a law amending the Law on War Veterans, submitted to the National Assembly by the Government with a proposal for a review and adoption following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner and the Committee therefore considered the draft law on the basis of Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure. Representatives of the proposed State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, representative of the State Council, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence, President of the Union of Veterans of the War on Slovenia and President of the North Association, participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which had no comments on the text submitted. In its opinion presented by the representative of the State Council at the Committee's meeting, the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons supported the draft law, provided that the content of the legislative procedure below is definitively harmonised on the basis of an agreement between the proposer and the veteran associations concerned. The amendments tabled and harmonised, in particular Article 1 of the bill, fully support this. The amendments were tabled in Articles 1 and 4. The representative of the applicant presented the draft law in the introductory explanation, and the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service made a comment at the meeting of the Committee on the amendment tabled in Article 1, as more detailed criteria for the financing of the company's activities, as set out by the Minister responsible for defence, are new. For the sake of certainty, a time limit for the adoption of a regulation should be added to the transitional and final provisions. The debate focused on Article 1 and the amendment tabled by the coalition groups prepared on the basis of an agreement between the proposer and the veteran associations concerned. The transfer of competences for the recognition of society in the public interest and the financing of associations of war veterans from the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities to the Ministry of Defence is coordinated. It is proposed that the definition of activities of public interest and the criteria for financing these activities are not changed. The discussion below raised the issue of the financing of membership and the question of how the granting of the status of a society acting in the public interest will be regulated. The applicant explained that the precise criteria were laid down by the Minister and the statuses granted were maintained. The representatives of the veteran organisations stressed that they supported the bill, in particular as regards supplementary health insurance, and that the amendment was also in line with them. The discussion followed also on Article 4 and the amendment tabled to delete paragraphs 2 and 3. These paragraphs provide that the payment of health services will start to be paid to full within the framework of compulsory health insurance only after the economic growth exceeds 2,5 % of the gross domestic product. The Secretary of State said that the ZUJF had temporarily restricted certain rights and that some of them were permanent. The right to health insurance has been permanently removed and the immediate return of this right would require more than 12 million per year, which, due to the financial situation of the country, is unfortunately an unrealistic assumption. That this right belongs to all war veterans is also agreed by veteran organisations, and unfortunately immediate enforcement is not possible, which is symbolic evidence that it is not just a social correction. The representatives of the veteran organisations considered the amendment to be correct and generous, but they questioned its possibility of realisation or realization. Of course, the amendment is not opposed. They stressed that the veterans never demanded that, given the financial situation of the country, they retain all rights, but that the ZUJF was proposed past them without any agreement or coordination. After the discussion, the Committee adopted the amendment to Article 1 but did not adopt the amendment to Article 4. The Committee has also adopted its amendment, and a supplementary proposal for a law has been prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u103	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The first is Mr Jožef Horvat on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! Christian Democrats are grateful to all Slovenes and Slovenes and Slovenian citizens who decided at the 1990 referendum to take their own path and defend their homeland at the time of the aggression of the Yugoslav People's Army. We are also grateful to all those who risked their lives or health, property and other for Slovenia's independence. Proposal for a law amending the Law on War veterans to grant the status of a society acting in the public interest from the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities shall be submitted to the Ministry of Defence. The main part of the operation of associations and associations of war veterans is aimed at preserving the memory of actions related to national identity, the defence of national territory, that is, in the field of labour within the Ministry of Defence. Christian Democrats support a more appropriate system of cooperation with civil society, which will be able to do so. In New Slovenia we also support the solution that in the year following the growth of gross domestic product, 2.5% of the right of all war veterans to health care will be restored. Until then, the right to health care will continue to be guaranteed to those war veterans who receive a veteran supplement or who meet the conditions for obtaining a veteran supplement. We also supported the SDS amendment at the Committee's meeting to ensure that all war veterans should be brought back as soon as possible, and unfortunately the coalition was not prepared to listen. The draft law will be supported by Members of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The next position will be presented by Mr Darko Jazbec, on behalf of the Positive Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u106	President, thank you for your word and a nice greeting to colleagues and colleagues and representatives of the government! In the first phase of the War Disability Act, it is intended to transfer the powers to the Ministry responsible for the defence of the status of a society acting in the public interest from the Ministry of War Veterans. Secondly, the adoption of the Law on the Balance of Public Finance, which has limited certain rights temporarily and for no good reason has it permanently restricted or bound them to the social status of the former beneficiary, is a war veteran. I am talking about the right of health insurance, which, prior to the implementation of the Public Finance Balance Act, belonged to all, in accordance with the status of a war veteran, and was a form of thanks to the State for their contribution to the fight for its independence. ZUJF has permanently restricted this right, as has been said, and we are restoring this right with today's novelty, but immediate enforcement is not possible because of the financial situation. The rejection of the amendment tabled by one of the opposition parliamentary groups at the meeting of the home working body was also accepted by the representatives of the war veterans with an understanding, as the possibility of its implementation is questionable. Therefore, the right of payment of the supplementary health insurance premium from 1 January 2013 is granted only selectively to war veterans. This is when meeting the age condition, which is 55 years old and the condition for obtaining a veteran supplement, although it is not a social adjustment. Such a way of balancing public finances is unacceptable in our opinion, as the implementation of the ZUJF has also disproportionately affected the rights of war veterans. In the Group of Positive Slovenia, we are pleased that the government has followed past efforts both by Positive Slovenia and by the Social Democrats, who were still trying to take away the rights of war veterans in line with economic growth, as we will confirm today. From the above conclusion, we will support the proposal for a new Law on War Veterans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Stefan Tessel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u108	Good-bye to all of you. Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, Member of Parliament and Members of Parliament! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we do not oppose the proposal for a law amending the Law on War Veterans. The proposal for a new law limits the competence to grant the status of a society acting in the public interest, society or relations of war veterans and the competence to conclude an activity financing contract with the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for the Ministry of Defence. The second amendment concerns the right of a war veteran to payment of supplementary health insurance after an additional 55 years of age. By means of the Public Finance Balance Act, they are veterans of 1. 1. 2013 lost this general right. However, the right to payment of supplementary health insurance is guaranteed to war veterans who receive a veteran supplement or qualify for a veteran supplement. After the amendment of the War Veterans Act, additional health insurance payments will be eligible for all with the status of a war veteran, but only in the year following the year when economic growth will exceed 2.5% of the gross domestic product. In view of the well-known forecasts of economic growth, this is a proposal which will not return these rights by at least 2017, and it is a proposal for a law in this part, to say the least, to deceive veterans. If there is a serious intention for the legislator to extend the scope of veteran rights, it may be extended immediately or a more realistic deadline for the application of the amendment of the law may be set. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, only at the meeting of the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs and on equal opportunities proposed an amendment to ensure that veterans exercise their right immediately. The proposal was rejected on the committee. Therefore, the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, at its plenary session, is once again proposing the same amendment. If this amendment is adopted, then there will be no reservations that the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group would also support the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Hello again! The Public Finance Balance Act also infringed on the right to health care of war veterans, which guaranteed all war veterans who had reached the age requirement under the War Veterans Act and limited it only to socially weaker war veterans. The proposed amendment proposes a change to this decision and a re-recognition of a right that no longer binds to a condition of higher economic growth, which will enable the full payment of this right and the realization of special constitutional protection by non-socially threatened beneficiaries. The implementation of the Public Finance Balance Act has also disproportionately affected the rights of war veterans. As soon as the ZUJF was adopted, the Social Democrats, together with the Members of Positive Slovenia, intervened and proposed a new law that would restore rights to war veterans. However, the amendment of the law was not adopted, and we were also among the supporters of the law submitted to the National Assembly on the basis of the signing of 5,000 voters. Since then, we have warned that by withdrawing the rights of the War veterans Act, it is losing its purpose because it has become most evident by the abolition of the only material right, payment of the supplementary health insurance premium. We believe that the receipts of war veterans and war victims should not be of a social nature, but should be a recognition of the Republic of Slovenia for the contribution given by war veterans to freedom and independence of Slovenia. The intervention by the then government on the rights acquired by veterans has affected and evaluated their contribution to this end. We Social Democrats believe that this intervention has been unfair. Not only because it has reduced the number of beneficiaries but also because the measure has been defined as a measure of a lasting nature. Other similar rights were limited by the ZUJF and re-established by the year after which economic growth will reach 2.5% of gross domestic product. The proposed amendment to the Law on War Veterans also follows a similar momentum and re-establishs the same condition for gaining the right to economic growth. We also support the second amendment introduced by the law, namely the transfer of powers to recognise the status of societies in the public interest and the financing of associations of war veterans from the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities to the Ministry of Defence. So we are predicting support for this law by the Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u112	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Madam Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party we welcome the proposal of this law. On the one hand, it reserves the power to grant the status of societies acting in the public interest from the Ministry of War veterans, namely the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, to the Ministry of Defence. This is understandable, even in our opinion, because the main part of the operation of these societies or associations of war veterans is aimed at preserving the memory of actions related to national identity, the defence of national territory and similar expressions, and it is normal for this area to be covered by the Ministry of Defence. In doing so, I would like to point out that we will support the amendment of the SDS Members to Article 1, since there is a need to respect the constitutional right to unite in society and the equality of all members. The concept of financing in this way, given the number of members of war veterans, is, in our opinion, discriminatory compared to other veteran societies, as well as the separation between members of society. The proposal for amendments to the law also provides for the payment of health services up to the full value of compulsory health insurance, but only when economic growth exceeds 2.5% of gross domestic product. However, given the well-known forecasts of economic growth, of course, it is a proposal which will not return these rights by 2017 at least, in some way to mislead veterans and, on the other hand, to our unserious work. Of course, the proposal is welcome, but, as it is said, it has no real value, given the projected data, when economic growth will reach this percentage. I believe, however, that they also support such a solution by veteran organisations, that they agree with this solution, because it is symbolic evidence that it is not a social correction, but a recognition of the merits of independence, of events that have taken place in our past history. For all of this we will support the proposal in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. It's a nice greeting for everyone! When considering the topic addressed by the proposed proposal for amendments to the Law on War Veterans and included in the proposal for amendments to the Law on Public Finance Balance, this government has committed itself to regulating the material of health insurance for war veterans, as legally and systemically, in the Law on War Veterans. This proposal follows the government's promise in this work, so we will support it in the DeSUS Group. Our Group also supports the proposal for a law in the second substantive amendment relating to the delegation of powers to grant the status of society in the field of the activities of war veterans from the Ministry of Labour to the Ministry of Defence. We agree with this in the DeSUS Group because the main part of the operation of these societies is aimed at preserving the memory of actions related to national identity, the defence of national territory and independence and the development of the defence area. This is a topic which, according to its content, is actually more part of the Ministry of Defence's field of work. As we say, Members and Members of the DeSUS, we will support the proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u115	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 22 April 2014. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendments tabled by the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? He wants to discuss it. The word has magic. Stefan Tessel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u116	Good-bye, everybody! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have also tabled an amendment to Article 1 to improve the status of members and, of course, to prevent the unconstitutionality of this Article. In paragraph 4, we made an amendment: "With the company or association of war veterans with the status of public interest society, the Minister responsible for Defence shall conclude a contract on the financing of their activities from the State budget on the basis of the met criteria for the financing of activities from the State budget, taking into account in particular the programme of the society and the association of war veterans, which shall ensure the public interest, the number of members and the use of funds from the past two years for activities of public interest referred to in the preceding paragraph." In the current word relationship "number of members of war veterans" the number is unspecified to the extent that it is not sufficient for the constitutional criterion that the criteria and criteria for subcontracting acts should already be laid down in the law. It is not clear to what extent members who are veterans of war and those who are not. This means disproportionate discretion of the executive branch in undeclared decision-making on funding rights. Moreover, the exercise of the activities of societies in relation to the entire purpose of Article 1 of this Law cannot depend solely on the number of veterans of war, since, in the light of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, persons who are not veterans of war and carry out activities under Article 1, paragraph 3, of this Act may also be associated with society in the public interest. At the same time, the limitation of funding according to the number of war veterans means discrimination in financing in the implementation of the purpose set out in this law, since, for example, the society of veterans from World War I under this criterion could not have had members of war veterans, as well as under this criterion, for example, the Association of National and Liberation Fighters would receive fewer and fewer funds in view of the increasingly low number of veterans. The second amendment proposed by the amendment is the deletion of the consideration of the assets of the society or the association of war veterans. With the amendment, it is proposed that, in determining the financing of societies or associations, instead of assets, actions to realize the use of funds over the past two years are taken into account, with regard to the implementation of public interest activities over a continuous period. I hope you will support this amendment because it only improves the status of members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss the first article and the amendment tabled? [[Yeah.]] Dr. Ljubica Jelusic has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u118	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President! Although I expected the Government to give an opinion on this amendment first, but since no one else has come forward, I would ask some questions or dilemmas about the amendment, and I would also say a few things about the whole article 1. First of all, I would point out that the fourth paragraph of Article 1 of the proposal made by the Government has not changed and that what the SDS Group is now proposing is essentially novel, and that the arrangement for the scope of funding to be determined also on the basis of the number of members of veteran organisations has been applicable since the existence of the War Veterans Act. It seems to me that at this point it seems a little unusual to talk about the issue of unconstitutional regulation, because this unconstitutionality should therefore be established in the past. Indeed, this criterion is already enshrined in the existing law and does not change it in any way. I would also like to point out that the fourth paragraph, however, needs to be understood as the cumulativeity of several different conditions, it is said that the scope of funding is not only determined on the basis of the number of members, which could be erroneously concluded on the basis of the current proposal of this amendment or its justification, but is determined on the basis of a number of different things, in particular on the basis of the criteria already established by the State budget, then taken into account in particular, this paragraph of the article states in particular, the programme of the society or association of war veterans, and then also takes into account the number of members of war veterans and, of course, the property owned by the society or association of war veterans. The question is also raised when you propose that the principle should now be applied, i.e. a new criterion for financing in relation to the implementation of the past two years, i.e. actual consumption over the past two years, where I see one important good side. In particular, you point out that a veteran society should continue to operate and that one that continues to function must be supported. However, the question arises as to what to do with those who have just been established and cannot show that they have been active in the past two years. I think that one of the problems with financing the operation of one of the last veteran associations was that, when its funding was determined, it was not possible to look at a history of how much this society had been financed in the past. But let us leave this debate to the various societies, however, I think it is appropriate to take into account the fact that so far this level of funding under the applicable war veterans law has been established even after this fourth paragraph and that at least it seemed to me, even years ago, that there was no problem with this amount of funding. However, with regard to the whole Article 1 in particular to this work, which discusses the transfer of powers for veteran societies and their financing at the Ministry of Defence, I would point out one thing that we must bear in mind. It would be fine if we had a list of all the veteran societies and associations we've established today. Then it would probably be easier for us to understand what I'm about to say now. I'd also like to draw your attention to a history. In 2008, the government had already planned to transfer powers from the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to the Ministry of Defence for Veteran Society, which could be concluded that funding for the financing of these societies had already been provided for in the 2009 budget by the Ministry of Defence. However, since the law was not amended at this point, the funds from the Ministry of Defence's budget went back to the Ministry of Labour and the financing went forward according to the old, then applicable, rules. Why does this need to be opened today? We have said that the Ministry of Defence is being transferred to the Ministry of Defence to determine the functioning of societies in the public interest because, as a rule, a large part of the operation of these societies and associations of war veterans contributes to the preservation of the memory of actions related to national identity, the defence of national territory, autonomy, the development of the defence area, that is, all things belonging to the Ministry of Defence. I would like to draw attention to two societies that are likely to have problems in terms of content, but not necessarily to be very observable. First, it is the North Association, which is essentially an association of police veterans, whose operation is more consistent with the purposes and interests of the Ministry of Interior or the police. As it is said, in the past there have been no problems in this regard, and the Ministry of Labour has done this very right and it has been very objective, we will say, or balanced towards all these veteran societies and associations. Then one veteran company or organisation, for which at least I, if you do not have these problems here, would have difficulties when it is necessary to observe its contribution to the preservation of national identity, to preserve the memory of actions related to the defence of national territory and so on, this is the New Slovenian Commitment. I must say that as long as the financing of this organisation has been paid by the Ministry of Labour, I have not and would not have any personal problems, because I think that the Ministry of Labour can very objectively observe the functioning of all organisations, regardless of their contribution to the defence of the country or national identity. However, when this is postponed to the Ministry of Defence, it should be borne in mind, however, that all these associations and societies are expected to contribute to the objectives of the Ministry of Defence and that their objectives, the objectives of their operation and the reasons for their creation are taken into account in the functioning of the Ministry of Defence, as this is the case. The Ministry of Defence shall take account of the functioning of these societies in its civil-military or civil-defence cooperation. Personally, this organisation would have been quite restrained if this organisation had to be paid by the Ministry of Defence, but, as I can see, these reservations in the past, in the past developments around this law and changes, so I am now supporting the law, as proposed. I do not think that the dilemmas opened by the SDS amendment to Article 1 should in fact be changed, since, as I said, there is a need to take into account cumulatively all the conditions for determining the level of funding and not just the number of veterans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mrs Martina Vuk, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, wanted the text.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u120	Thank you very much. I wanted to wait for the whole round and then come to the end of the debate on this amendment, but it is also right to say the position of the Government and the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. What seems crucial to us and what needs to be stressed is that the amendments to this Article 1 of the War Veterans Act have been carried out by societies and associations with public interest status all the time and have been unanimously endorsed or adopted by the amendments proposed in the law today. There is also an ongoing debate between these societies and associations on how to change these criteria, when the rules on the allocation of funds and so on will be amended, and it has been explicitly stressed and stated that they do not want to be addressed in this third or if we now call it paragraph 4 where the criteria to be taken into account in particular in the allocation of funds are affected. So it seems to us that ad hoc solutions, some quick solution that is not harmonised, difficult to accept, and also somewhat dangerous to move on. However, one more point needs to be highlighted. As has already been said, these criteria, as set out in the law, are criteria that should be taken into account in particular when a rule is being drawn up. However, the Regulation will specify on what basis and how it will divide these criteria further so that funds can then be made transparently available. As regards the transfer to the Ministry of Defence, however, it should be pointed out that the Ministry of Defence will have a transfer of status and co-financing to the Ministry of Defence under the War veterans Act. The new Slovenian undertaking is subject to the War Cemetery Act, so that it remains at the Ministry of Labour. It is also those who fall under the War Disabled Act, as well as all individual rights, i.e. social rights that belong to war veterans and war invalids and so on. This all stays at the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss the amendment tabled under Article 1? He does. Mrs. Sonja Ramshak, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues from the Ministry, Members and Members of Parliament! I think that the proposed amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party is going in the direction that it should already go to adopt the law that we are talking about today – otherwise today we are talking about changes and additions. But I'll say one thing. Of course, this was now part of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, and it is also true that the Ministry of Defence has already granted or participated in the process of issuing a status to someone. However, I must say that I have been working on these matters, and I know that these criteria under paragraph 5 of this Act have not been in place to date, and that if anything, then we should also set a time limit by which we should draw up a deadline for the competent minister to issue these criteria. Indeed, it cannot be in the hands of someone who is working on these matters to decide whether or not to grant status to someone and that the status can in fact be granted only on the basis of the criteria adopted. And all those who have adopted this status to date have actual status granted only on this huge, that their programmes result in promoting patriotic education and so on and that they continue the tradition of Slovenian independence and so on. But the specific criteria by which the status was distributed were not available until today. As for the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, it seems to me that it is correct already in this regard, because to separate between the fact that in some society or relationship only veterans are wars for Slovenia – what are the other members? I think that societies operate in the common public interest and that maybe only those who do not have a recognised status as veterans can have it, and I think that, given our constitution, as the predecessor has already said, they should also take this into account, and that perhaps even some society that does not have them involved or that only a percentage of those who have a recognised status as veterans could be more active than any other society. So I think we should give everyone equal opportunities here whether they have members involved or not, or somehow determine that they must have at least 50% of veterans who have recognised veteran status. However, as far as this allocation is concerned, I think it is the first to be able to allocate funds at all and to be allocated on the basis of criteria. Or they must be published in a public tender. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss Article 1 and the amendment tabled? [[He doesn't want to.]] We therefore conclude the debate on Article 1 and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendments tabled by the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Yeah. Mag. Stefan Tessel, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Good-bye! As we have already proposed on the Committee an amendment to Article 4, but it has not been adopted, we are now repeating it in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Article 4, second and third paragraphs shall be deleted. The second and third paragraphs provide that the payment of health services will begin to be paid to the full within the framework of compulsory health insurance, as long as the economic growth exceeds 2,5 % of the gross domestic product. In view of the well-known forecasts of economic growth, this is a proposal which will not return these rights by at least 2017 or beyond. The proposal of this law is essentially about misleading veterans, and if we have a serious purpose, we will immediately allow them to extend this right or to set a more acceptable deadline, set, not in fog, 2017 or beyond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u126	Thank you very much. What can I say? Wow, double standards. Dear colleagues from the Social Democratic Party or whatever you are, SDS, that's a lot higher, come on! When the ZUJF was admitted, you polished a whole series of rights saying we didn't have any money. You've been particularly intense in the family field. 7th and 8th grade of the child supplement, reduction of the child-care and child-care benefits to 90%, reduction of the right or entitlement for those who received the package for the newborn and so on. And many of these rights have been linked to restoring economic growth, and in a year that exceeds growth by 2.5%, it will come into force again. That's what you wrote in the ZUJF, and you accepted it. We had two marriages at the time. For the first time, the law was introduced with colleagues from Positive Slovenia that veterans, who in principle were not concerned with money, were also told at a committee meeting, but were meant to be deprived of some kind of dignity, moral recognition for their contribution to this freedom and independence. That's what they meant. And this simply took them away on a permanent basis and limited them only to the social beneficiaries. They also now say: we are not going so far as to get that material compensation back, it is about giving us moral recognition for our contribution to Slovenian independence. That is why they also adopted, and also in their five thousand-signature bill, it was as follows: in a year that exceeds 2.5% of GDP growth. And now you're forcing us into a solution that you know costs 12 million a year and that's under these material conditions that we're in today, we just can't guarantee. Pure scheming, pure politics. I will say this: we will adopt the law in our party, we will confirm it, I hope that together with our coalition colleagues, because we believe that this moral recognition must be returned. Once again, it's not as much about material compensation as it is about moral recognition. And I will quote my father, unfortunately for the deceased. He worked 41 years. He was also a partisan. Once he did not benefit from one credit rating from his partisan status, but when he was deprived of that right, he was so deeply offended and he said, "What about this? In the end, we and our contribution and that we can all live in freedom first because of the role of national liberation war, and also because of the role played by veterans of the war on Slovenia in our independence." That's what this is about, ladies and gentlemen. And stop fooling around and pummeling political points where they don't have to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u127	Thank you very much. He wanted the word if I saw it right, Mr. Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u128	Madam Vice-President, this implementation that we have just heard can only go to vomiting. You can really get sick. Madam, who has now been so vehemently explaining in this way how she is dealing with veterans of war, how she is dealing with the return of some dignity to the Slovenian people on the one hand, and on the other she sits in coalition and supports the Government, who destroys that dignity from day to day! To the cubicle! And this lady is allowing herself here to make fun of and to debate in this way, as she has discussed, that she has hurt me directly. And I think not only me, but most citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. He can't afford that here in Parliament, he can't! And this law proposed by the Government concerning war veterans for Slovenia, which I strongly support – if I supported some of those who are still alive in this government coalition, then Slovenia would never have, ever! If we were not what Slovenia really meant to us and which we were prepared to do, we are prepared and working to prevent this Slovenia from making a slave country, as the current government is doing, to work from the Slovenian people of the Slavčev state! A nation in this country becomes a servant in its own country! 81% of GDP we owe, almost 30 billion we owe! What else do we have, exactly?Oh, my God! And you're allowed to discuss it that way. Definitely war veterans deserve it, which is written here, definitely. But this marriage was by no means submitted for any moral recognition! That's a hoax! That's abuse! That's abuse. And if you say that it will only be returned to them when the state achieves 2.5% of the gross social product, under such circumstances, in such a functioning and with such functioning of the government and with all that you do to make the economy recover, you are doing everything against the economy! With all these penalties, all the burdens you have recently accepted as an economy, we will not reach 2.5% of the gross social product for the next hundred years. For the next hundred years! And then when will these veterans get this supplement?Oh, my God! When, I ask you. When?Oh, my God! Please don't fool yourself like that and don't tell me we're being misdirected. When ZUJF was adopted, circumstances were quite different! It's completely different! They are not nearly comparable to the current condition, nor are they approximately. I absolutely support the return of what was taken from Slovenia's veterans, but immediately! At that time, this law, which this government has proposed, will have some credibility if we do so immediately. Otherwise, it's just a nice record, which our veterans won't bring anything at all! Nothing at all! From moral pleasure, dear colleague on the other side of the National Assembly, there is no way to live. You really can't live. So believe me, you can laugh as much as you want, you've had the opportunity and the opportunity to show what you can do. You have proven what you can do – with all the new taxes and the destruction of the Slovenian economy, the Slovenian people, and you have made Slovenian people slaves in your own country! This limitless debt — who will pay for it?Oh, my God! Every child born owes EUR 15,000 or about that amount. Who did this?Oh, my God! Who?Oh, my God! Tell me who! And you, with such ease here today, are discussing and speaking oh and in general and ah. As if we were some criminals who wanted the veterans to get what was taken back, you proposed a law yesterday, right away. And in this case, we will support the marriage without any problem, with great joy and pride that we stand behind. We are also behind those who conquered Slovenia. Now in our country, we get the feeling that those of us who have conquered Slovenia are becoming less valuable citizens in this country. And that the first defence minister of this country, when Slovenia was at war, you are now trying to condemn in every way. I am not saying that this is done by the National Assembly or by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u129	Mr Pojbič, a slightly lower tone of the debate please. We've got microphones.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u130	Okay, I'm sorry. However, if we have anything for Slovenia alone, if we have anything for those who have been in the first lines of Slovenia alone, then we should also act accordingly. Then let us act accordingly. And because of these 12 million, as you mentioned, the country will not fail in all these debts you've made. With all this debt! In addition to the ten billion that you owe this country, give yourself another 12 million debt and let veterans have war for Slovenia what they own! Only then will I see your credibility, your credibility and your responsibility to what you wrote here. But if we wait for 2.5% economic growth, with the measures taken by the government of Alenka Bratušek, we will wait another hundred years, and the veterans of war for Slovenia will have absolutely nothing. So don't fool around, don't fool around, tell the truth! But there's no problem if you support this amendment, because we're 100 percent all of us standing in the National Assembly for this. We are in favour of this and we will vote for it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u131	The replica is by Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič, of course for a reason.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Well, first of all, I have to say that Pojbič's colleague got carried away again, so let's get back to the facts. As I said, our party, in cooperation with the SD Group, introduced a law immediately after the adoption of the ZUJF which sought to restore the right to supplementary health insurance to war veterans on the basis of the level of GDP growth achieved. And you hit her quietly. Then the same marriage was introduced by war veterans. They have also tied the exercise of the right to a better economic situation. It is said that what we are doing here is actually following what they wanted. And if you claim that with these 12 million, which you will now give to veterans, you will restore their dignity and correct their injustice — yes, why didn’t you do it for God’s sake before you had the chance?Oh, my God! Why does another government have to do this, and you're charging it? It's not that we don't want this back. We absolutely want to give them back because it is a universal right, but it is linked to certain material conditions. And the veterans themselves told you at the meeting that they themselves did not expect this return at this time because they are aware of the difficult economic conditions in which Slovenia is in, that it is more for them to acknowledge their contribution. That's what this is about. And those are their words, Mr. Pojbich, not my words. And I didn't cheat, and I didn't do anything as much as you did, but I did tell the facts and what was true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u133	Mrs Martina Vuk, Secretary of State, has the floor. Mr. Pojbich, do you want procedural? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u134	Madam Vice President! Please explain to the National Assembly what you meant by "replication for a reason." Please explain what you said. You said that and I ask you to explain to the Members of the National Assembly what "replication for a reason" means. That's what you said. Please explain that.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. Pojbich. You must have been very upset. I've thought a few times about stopping you from screaming like you did today, as well as the insults of your colleague Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič for a few moments, but I stopped. The reason for this is because the business reason referred to in Article 70 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is when a replica is possible. And it was for a reason because you were reading and you mentioned Dr. Andrei Črnak Meglič several times in your discussion. That's why I stressed "for a reason" because I was almost at the point of stopping you twice, and I changed my mind because every time you pulled yourself back a little bit correctly. That's it. Do you have any other procedural proposals? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u136	Madam Vice President, perhaps I am speaking very loudly, yes. Maybe that's the nature, that's the nature. There's nothing wrong with that and nothing wrong with it. At the very least, what you would expect from you is that if you tried to warn me to lower my voice and that Dr. Black Blur has a replica for a reason, it would be right to warn her at the same time, because she also raised her voice strongly. I am sure of this not only by myself but also by others who are sitting in this national assembly. And if we had the same vats for everyone and we were right, then what you did to me, we would have done to Dr. Black Mglech. For the next time, I hope and my procedural advice is that you are objective in your decisions as Vice-President of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. Marian Pojbich. In the replica, Dr. Andrej Črnak Mglič was really on the same vat as you. The tone was also slightly higher, but I understood her because she was probably a little upset, and I am trying to be objective with everyone in the session, because you are all my colleagues and colleagues. Mrs. Martina Vuk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u138	Thank you very much. I'm going to try to be less emotional, and I'm going to point out a few facts. The ZUJF abolished the right to supplementary health insurance paid from public funds permanently for all war veterans, except for those who receive a veterinary supplement or qualify to receive it. For everyone else, and there's about 82 grand like that, if I remember correctly, he abolished that right permanently. He didn't tie it to any future state, he didn't tie it to some economic growth, he didn't tie it to when there were material capabilities, he cut it off permanently. We are now returning this right to everyone, of course under certain conditions. And yes, the financial result is 12 million. And yes, we don't have these 12 million today, which is why we don't return it today, right after the adoption of the law. It's tied to 2.5% economic growth, which is not the only right that relates to this growth, but we've tried to unify. Payments will then also be paid back for other rights, in particular family policy measures which are extremely important. And yes, it's a symbolic return. The symbols we want do not want important and symbolic actions also count. And that's what this is all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mrs Sonja Ramshak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u140	Thank you very much. I will say that I am very much in favour of both colleagues who have had a little emotional debate because I know that they speak from the heart and are not made, so that I hope that our discussions in this National Assembly will be allowed even when our colleagues have a little emotional response, because I am also an emotional person, and sometimes when some injustice hurts, I may even raise my voice. Of course, we need to respect each other. This is what is at the heart of every debate. And if I return to the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, what do we want to say with this. I do not agree with the representative of the Government who said that you are restoring a right that has been permanently abolished. None of this has been permanently abolished, but when the government, in 2012, accepted the amendments with the ZUJF, it abolished it because there was no money in the budget, because it had to be provided for other social transfers. At that time, it was decided that this right would be abolished here, but when funds were made available in the state budget, this right could be restored. But a right that can't be realized isn't really a right. And what you're doing now that you've included this – I know that we met with representatives of the Federation of Veterans of the War on Slovenia at the time. I support them differently, but if you can't give someone this right to accept it and realize it, it's not a right for me, you know, a respected secretary of state or secretary of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. And it would be right – it’s really about advertising, you can say, like you used to tell us, that we accepted that the other child is not being paid for the child’s protection and so on. These are your favorite maneuvers when you're getting some voter base and voters in the coalition. But if we had a serious purpose, we would say: John Janša and his government have wronged all veterans of the war for Slovenia, and we return this right immediately to all veterans. 12 million — what is today 12 million to 450 million with which we save private banks? But this is great for those people for whom today some institutions have to raise money, contributions, food to feed those who are hungry in Slovenia. Why don't you immediately increase social transfers, even though just from your law adopted by another government before the government of Janez Janša, the government is said to be in the period 2008-2011? And we still feel the consequences today in all social transfers. And waiting for the right of people from these social transfers for two years or more to carry out appeals procedures, even though you have now made one like page where you publish how many complaints you resolve. Don't say we don't support veterans. I'm a veteran myself. It was my right, but I never exercised it because I said others were worse. I do not exercise the right to additional health insurance, and I have always paid myself and it has not hurt me either. But I've been a Member for two years now, I can tell you, but I wasn't a Member of Parliament before. If you really want the veterans of the wars for Slovenia to get what belongs to them, imagine the fates of those who are unemployed today who are without social support, and help those who are. These would then be the real measures the Social Democrats can take for the social state. This measure, which you put into infinity – it may never be 2.5. I hope it will be tomorrow, but what did you do when the statistical office published it on January 1st — and what does it say in the second paragraph? It says: Article 15 of the Act shall apply on 1 January of the year following the year in which the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia finds that economic growth has exceeded 2,5 % of gross domestic product. Look at your predictions. You're actually moving this into the future, and that's not the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Madam President. As a matter of fact, I've come over more to deserve today's salary, because if I don't say anything, I'd feel like I really don't deserve it, and now the question is, do we all deserve it? I'll tell you why. Because we're adopting disastrously bad laws. See, the Law on Court Fees - the Supreme Court has sent a request for a constitutional assessment, and today the Constitutional Court is writing to the National Assembly that we have to plead with the higher court. Income Act — Decision of the Constitutional Court to repeal Article 90. Ten. 4. carries the date. Ladies and gentlemen, what are we doing in the National Assembly? What are we doing? Do we deserve a salary? On the other hand, instead of state secretaries, there are people who have never experienced anything who have never been in a position to, like Minister Stepišnik, who had to leave the ministry because he created economic growth. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u143	Mag. Ivan Vogrin, can you focus on the amendment?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u144	That's exactly what I'm gonna do now.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u145	Please, politely.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u146	I'm sorry, Madam President. Although I was mildly hoping to speak of the state of the country, this law also speaks of the state of the country. Now look, we're making bad marriages, and this marriage is a bad marriage. Why we make bad marriages, I'm always interested. I am actually in the field of study and have done an analysis of parliamentary work for 20 years. Now I'm going to tell you what I found out in connection with this marriage. We have bad laws for that reason, and this law is bad because there are only 34 Members of Parliament who have ever worked in the economy. 16 members worked and worked in the public sector, and 40 members worked in the state sector, and this assembly – it has the right name, the National Assembly – has made a state apparatus to terrorise the population. That's the solution, that's the truth.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u147	Mag. Vogrin, amendment, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u148	Look, I think I've said enough. Let each man create his own opinion of what laws we adopt. The Constitutional Court abolishes them, the Supreme Court takes action against the legislator, against the National Assembly. Well, wait. Let's get real! Let's get serious. I still have heartache about why Minister Stepišnik was relieved of his promising economic growth. You know why? Because it's a disruptive factor because he came out of the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u150	Thank you very much. For the sake of the public alone, I would like to reiterate what we are actually talking about. The fact is that the right to reimbursement of supplementary health insurance costs is already guaranteed to war veterans who are socially at risk. The right of other war veterans, who had previously been universally deprived of their right by the ZUJF, was to return when economic growth was restored. I repeat that this content is identical and fully consistent with what the veterans have invested on the basis of 5,000 signatures in the National Assembly. This is said to follow their views and opinions. That's what this is about. And also to their own knowledge that at this point the State does not have the resources to cover the costs that would mean the return of the right immediately. This is said to be their contribution, and once again, a gift to their views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss this point? Mr. Pojbich, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u152	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So, I'm saying it again. Dear members of the Social Democrats, if you want to do good to war veterans and if you want to do seriously what you have written down in this law, support the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, which states in the law that war veterans will receive immediately what is paid, which is enshrined in this law. Do it, support our amendment, and then everything will be OK, we'll all support this marriage together.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Here you go, Mr. Branko Kurnjek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u154	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Nice hello to you all! Just so things are a little bit clearer, I'm going to quote from Dr. Tomaž Time's magnetogram, President of the North Association. The Magnetogram was made at a meeting of the Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons Committee, where we discussed the law in question. I'm quoting. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u155	Mr. Kurnjek, your time is up. I'm sorry. Would anyone else like to discuss with those who still have time to discuss? I don't see any desire, so I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 7th item of the agenda. This also interrupts this agenda item. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, this is on the basis of a proposal by the Member States of the European Union, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation for the recognition of calls for proposals for action in the Republic of Slovenia under the shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u156	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! Dear Members and Members! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on the procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications for citizens of the Member States of the European Union, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation for the exercise of regulated professions or activities in the Republic of Slovenia is in particular coordinated with the amendments to European legislation. In particular, it is a matter of harmonising national legislation with rules defining the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union and in particular extending the range of beneficiaries to the procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications established under the Directive in accordance with certain sectoral directives. In line with the above, it is also proposed to amend the provision defining the beneficiaries of the procedures for the recognition of professional qualifications and, in line with the recommendations for more transparent, clear and effective legislation, we have also amended the article in this regard, in particular with a view to improving the rationalisation of administrative procedures for cross-border or temporary provision of services. As such, the draft law has no financial implications for the State budget and for other public funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u158	Thank you very much. The Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, as the parent working body, considered that proposal for legislation submitted to the National Assembly by the Government with a proposal for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be dealt with in a simplified manner and the Committee therefore considered it on the basis of Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure. Representatives of the proposer and the State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities participated in the work of the Committee, a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service and a representative of the State Council. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects. It made comments to the proposed text on Articles 1, 2 and 3. On the basis of these comments, amendments to the coalition were tabled. In its opinion presented by the representative of the State Council at the meeting of the Committee, the Commission of the State Social Protection Council, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons endorsed the draft law. The Commission notes that, in the light of the Ministry’s explanations, the introduction of the draft law will not adversely affect the objectives of the introduction of the transitional period for citizens of the Republic of Croatia and that, in this respect, no further pressure on the labour market in Slovenia is expected in the next two years until the transitional period. The representative briefly presented the draft law and the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that they had pointed out in their opinion that the text was very incomplete and that the amendments tabled following the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Services were abolished. There was no debate. The Committee, however, adopted the amendments tabled by the coalition groups to Articles 1, 2 and 3. A complementary bill has been prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u159	Thank you very much. This is followed by a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First, the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will be presented by mag. Stefan Tessel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u160	Well-known, distinguished Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, Member of Parliament and Members! In the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, we do not oppose the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on the procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications to nationals of the Member States of the European Union, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation for the exercise of regulated professions or activities in the Republic of Slovenia. The law is adopted by means of a reduced procedure and it is a matter of harmonising the law with European rules, which also define the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. In principle, the law provides for procedures for the recognition of professional qualifications to nationals of the European Union, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation as States Parties. The amendment also gives third-country nationals the right to access professional qualifications procedures if they fulfil the condition that one of the States Parties has already recognised evidence of formal qualifications and have three years of professional experience in the profession in question in the territory of the State which has recognised evidence of formal qualifications. We will support the amendment of the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u162	Thank you so much for saying that. The law proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia contains less difficult changes and additions to the European acquis. The Act is complemented by the content of Council and European Parliament Directives on the right to establishment and freedom to provide services in view of the accession of the Republic of Croatia, the Single Application Procedure Directive for the Single Authorisation for third-country nationals to reside and work in the territory of a Member State and the Common Set of Rights for workers from third countries legally resident in a Member State, the Directive amending the Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications and the EU Regulation on administrative cooperation through the Internal Market Information System and the Directive on the conditions to be met by third-country nationals or stateless persons to be eligible for international protection, as regards the uniform status of refugees or persons entitled to subsidiary protection and the content of this protection. Amendments to the law are necessary due to the period laid down for the transposition of these Directives into the national legal order. That is why the Social Democrats will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u164	Once again a warm greeting to all present! Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a law or a change of law. It is true that we are already a little late with him, as the country also received an official reminder from the European Commission due to the non-notification of the provisions for the transposition of the directive adopted on 13 May last year due to Croatia's accession. The proposal therefore partially transposes the Directives and proposes extending the range of beneficiaries of recognition of professional qualifications, including for all third-country nationals, provided that they meet the condition that one of the States Parties has already recognised evidence of formal qualifications and have three years of professional experience in a particular profession. How this will affect the domestic labour market and the economy – we wonder whether we have taken the right measures so that there will be no negative consequences for the employment of Slovenian citizens. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we cannot fully agree with the arguments in explanation that the law or amendments to the law will not affect our economy, the social field. It says there will be no consequences in these areas. This may be true up to and including 2016, when the transitional period is still in force, and at that time it is unlikely that there will be additional pressure on the labour market in Slovenia. Of course, there is still an open question of what will happen after that. Let me remind you that this issue, namely the problem of the pressure of the labour force from neighbouring countries on our market, has already been pointed out when we consider the draft law on the implementation of the transitional period for the employment and work of citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the Republic of Slovenia. This was discussed when the Republic of Croatia entered the European Union. Therefore, the two-year period expires in 2016. We have noted that the issue of the free movement of workers and the recognition of professional qualifications, particularly in the field of health, should be carefully addressed and proposed and supported the introduction of this transitional period. Of course, as we say, each stick has two ends, and it has two ends. In particular, we support the possibilities that are open to our citizens on the other hand, because the implementation of this system opens up the possibility of issuing a European professional card. Regardless of all the thoughts and concerns, we will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u165	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mrs Marija Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u166	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Good bye to all of you! The main objective of this proposal is to harmonise our arrangements with European rules on the recognition of professional qualifications to citizens of the Member States of the European Union, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation for the performance of regulated professions or activities in the Republic of Slovenia. Amendments to the law need to be speeded up, as we are already in strong delay with transposition and are already being warned by the European Commission. The law deals with two minor amendments, namely extending the range of beneficiaries to professional qualifications procedures also to all third-country nationals if one of the States Parties has already recognised evidence of formal qualifications and has three years of professional experience in a particular profession. However, the second amendment to the law refers to the addition of the provision on the obligation of written notification before the first provision of temporary services, in such a way as to make the latter necessary only if sectoral legislation so requires. In view of the fact that we have set a moratorium on the free movement of labour for Croatian citizens in Croatia just before Croatia's entry into the European Union last year, it should also be noted that the introduction of these changes will not adversely affect the objective of introducing a transitional period for the work of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia supports the proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Moreover, the position of the New Slovenia Group. Mrs. Iva Dimic will introduce him.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u168	Mr President, the Secretary of State and his associates! The proposal for a law under consideration changes the definition of beneficiaries of professional qualifications procedures, as originally laid down in Directive 2005/36/EC. It is proposed to extend the range of beneficiaries to all third-country nationals if they fulfil the condition that one of the States Parties has already recognised evidence of formal qualifications and have three years of professional experience in a given profession. It is also complemented by the provision on the obligation to register in writing before the first provision of temporary services, so that the latter would be necessary only if sector-specific legislation so requires. The applicants argue that the proposed amendments and additions to the law represent only a partial transposition of the content of the said Directives and that their comprehensive transposition will have to be carried out by 2016, which will require more fundamental systemic changes and the revision of the whole legislation in this area, including the sub-legislative act. We believe that it would be more useful for Christian Democrats to carry out a comprehensive transposition of the content of the directives cited by the proposers at this reading. We are committed to the inclusion of European standards in our labour law regarding the provision of working conditions, working hours, leave, protection at work, conditions of employment or termination of employment. However, working conditions that go beyond these standards must be addressed in dialogue with the social partners. Although the Ministry argues that the implementation of the bill will not have a negative impact on the objectives of introducing a transitional period for the employment of citizens of the Republic of Croatia and that, in this respect, in the next two years until the transitional period, there will be no further pressure on the labour market in Slovenia, we will monitor in detail the consequences of the implementation in Novi Slovenija. At the same time, we call on the Ministry to verify that Slovenia has sufficient safeguards in its legal order to maintain high professional standards, for example in health care, for the entry of third-country nationals into the labour market in the Republic of Slovenia. As Christian Democrats are an extremely pro-European political party, we will support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u169	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 7th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, this is the third defensively proposed law on the prevention of work and employment in black. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Mr. Dejan Levanic, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u170	Have a nice hello to you all again! In the third reading, the essence of the law on prevention of work and employment in black can still be briefly discussed. As you know, we are introducing some of the key innovations with which we want to primarily encourage a reduction in the scope of work in black: we are imposing more stringent sanctions on those who are doing work in black and on those who are employed in black; by transferring competences to customs administration we are increasing the control of employment and work in black, in particular through preventive measures; a simplified procedure for the application of short-term work is being simplified; a copy of the contract of employment must be kept at the place of work; a more precise definition is the illegal advertising of work or employment in black; a loss of property benefits is envisaged; supervisory authorities may, in a quick process, give fines, in particular for a crime committed out of kindness, or where some criminal property benefit is obtained, which is greater, i.e. a higher level of wealth is envisaged in this case – in this case, a risk of realisation is three times higher than the minimum level of legislation; and, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of which some criminal work is in violation of which is being committed against the criminal proceedings against the law against the law against the law against the law. Another key change within the law is the introduction of personal supplementary work valuations. So once again, it's a slightly simpler explanation. Personal complementary work already exists today; it is mainly work done at home in case of child protection, cleaning and so on. It is a personal complementary work that people do for various reasons, but this work is now going black. Since registration is a little more complex today and because people are not using personal complementary work, we have introduced a system that is very simple, which deals with the notification or registration of personal complementary work, we have introduced valuations that we wanted to encourage people to register for personal complementary work at all, because on the one hand only by applying for this work at home, the administrative unit actually does everything and on the other hand the contracting authority does everything, the hiring person pays over the internet or on the 9 euro administrative unit. This person shall be provided with one day of retirement and, of course, with health insurance at the time of carrying out this work. With this simple system, we wanted to encourage people, on the one hand, to apply for personal supplementary work, because this does not mean a great cost per month for the contracting authority. On the other hand, for those who are doing this work, and this work today is a very big one, it is a motivational element, because it will receive one day of retirement for these nine euros and will, of course, be insured for the time when the job will be carried out by the contracting authority. So we believe that by law on job prevention and employment, we did not just go in the direction of a solution in order to impose sanctions and exercise some enhanced control. On the other hand, we wanted to make the system of personal complementarities more decent and easier to make people actually serve it and thus to do their part to the country. We believe that there will be quite a few more interests after people have notified their own complementary work because they will have certain rights to do so. In time, we will see what this means for us in practice, how personal complementary work will reflect, but we believe that we have taken a big step forward to motivate people to do what they are doing today in black in the future in a legal way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Romana Tomc will be the first to present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues, Secretary of State! Our view of the law that we are considering today, and especially of the values that this law introduces, is quite clear. The values are unnecessary and useless bureaucratic obstacles, which will not have the same effect as the government or the ministry would have. The first question is, What do we really want to pursue with this law, and what do we want to do with the black or gray economy? Of course, for the right solutions, it is necessary to first define what a gray economy is. And, of course, a gray economy isn't that someone who's registered does a job that doesn't issue an account. It's not a grey economy, it's a tax evasion. The government wants to prosecute only those who do not have registered activities. According to the Minister, only 5% of the so-called grey economy is included in this area. At the outset, let me also mention the information I have seen in the annual report of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. On day 31. 12. 2013, that is said a few months ago, in Slovenia we had about a billion and a half unpaid taxes, unpaid taxes, unpaid contributions. And if we compare this figure with the revenue that the Government wants to achieve with the introduction of the values, which is about €350,000, that is to say not even half a million euros of new income into the pension treasury and health treasury, then these figures speak for themselves. If we could only increase the efficiency of tax recovery by 10%, we would do much more here. Personally, I do not believe that the values will come back to life in practice, nor is it because the control of the personal complementary work that is mainly carried out behind the four walls is extremely difficult. And to my surprise, the Ministry has even announced that it will carry out inspections with inspection by carrying out house investigations. I wonder where we have come in this country if we are going to personally complement work, which, of course, in the revenue of the budget, represents a small and insignificant part, to pursue house investigations, while in other areas billions of euros are turning into some unknown channels and into unknown accounts, and the effectiveness of house investigations is not nearly as good. One of the reasons why the Government has taken such a decisive step towards the pursuit of the grey economy is that a law on property taxation was rejected a long time ago by a constitutional decision. This has run out of 200 million euros in the budget, and this has to be replaced with something. If we look at one of the more important documents submitted by the Government in the past days or adopted in the past, the National Reform Programme, then we see that this is also one of the factors that the Government believes will compensate for the loss of real estate tax, the effects of reducing the grey economy are true. I'm stressing again in this place because I don't think we know that much about each other. Some colleagues, I am sure, still misinterpret this, but above all this is not known among people. It is not known that this law will not intervene in an area called non-institution of accounts and tax evasion. And I think there should be a lot more to be done in this area, while we will not do much with the valuations. Of course, the issue of valuations is not only of a general nature but also of a completely substantive and professional nature in connection with the calculation and payment of contributions to pension insurance and health insurance. And if we leave the health insurance aside and just look at the pension insurance. With a paper value someone will pay for the paper – the value is simply a piece of paper for which the person who buys it will pay 9 euros. Of this, €7 will go to the pension fund, but not to the pension account of the person to whom the valuation will be valid, because let me remind you that, despite our proposals and attempts a few years ago, we do not have pension accounts in Slovenia. But if we had them, then this measure might make sense. However, since the pension scheme works in a way that is on a pension basis, it is said in our future pension, it takes into account the basics from which contributions have been paid and not contributions themselves, but in this case, when contributions paid are taken into account, a substantial departure from the system. Of course, that's not good. This is how the system breaks down, and in the end, we will not know or know who, not what, not how much it has in its pension account. Of course, it is easier to introduce a new way and it is much harder to repair and rationalize old ways. The government has repeatedly stressed that by introducing values or complementing personal complementary work, they make it possible for those now working in black to work legally. But then I ask you, what prevents them from working legally today? In Slovenia we have a number of possible legal bases on which someone can work. However, the problem is that the whole system is so complicated that it is difficult to implement, that it is difficult to report that it is difficult to fill out all possible forms, and even more so than that the system is administratively complex, the system is extremely expensive. This means that high contributions and high taxes must be paid from individual forms of work. And there is another rabbit in this bush, which the government has few or no exposure to. The value is not only EUR 9 which someone will pay for the pension and health system, but means that the income earned by someone on the basis of the valuation will also have to be paid. A tax forecast will have to be issued and it will have to be notified accordingly. Of course, I agree with all of this, because from every form of work, from every earning you need something, you don't want to, you want to give it to the country, and that's the way it is. It is not right, however, that when the Government is doing such propaganda to the evaluators, it simply forgets to mention it, and then people imagine that it will be much simpler and with much less taxes and burdens than it will be. He won't. And with whoever I've talked to so far, he's extremely skeptical. It is not only the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party that the system of valuations will not work, it is the opinion of the general public. I really don't know where all those who are rooting for these values to be introduced as soon as possible, but they will be able to work on the basis of the values. I've never met any of these people before. Of course, on the other hand, this system also entails an administrative burden on the country. It is true that the initial costs of the introduction will be higher than then the costs that will arise when, if any, this system works. But just to introduce the system, the government has announced 250,000 euros in costs. In fact, we need a new programme on Ipes, we need a new program on Durs, and we need a new program on UJP, and we need an information base for all of this. And here's another area where somehow we're running out of money again and again. We need a new information system. Why? Don't all these institutions already have adequate organised and information support? If we do not need a new information system, we certainly need to upgrade the old information systems, and that costs, of course. Despite these 250,000 euros, which I believe is a number that is manageable for the budget, my main concern is that we are actually introducing a new administrative, bureaucratic, unfair labour market regulation, which should be regulated entirely differently. Our labour market is too complex, too burdened by various taxes, taxes, contributions, and that the ministry stresses that it will reorganise or regulate the labour market, do something good in this area, even under cover of any work is considered, does not really mean regulating the labour market, but hides itself only again and again new taxes and new contributions. And so it is here. Despite the fact that it is only €9, it is necessary to say once again that with these 9 euros we do not buy one hour's work of someone who will work, nor do we pay a sum of money for this work, which would be logical – that these are some of the sheep we buy it with. Let's say we buy a voucher for 200 euros and then this person offers us a service, a counter-service for 200 euros. No, no, no. With these 9 Euros, we buy a piece of paper. I don't know, though, because there's no valuation presented for what she's going to look like. I can't imagine what it'll say up there, but I imagine it won't look like it does now, a student's handbill, where some amount is written and the number of hours. I just can't imagine. A piece of paper that costs €9 and a piece of paper that will be valid for one month will be able to work for an hour or work for 15 hours. If he works an hour, it'll cost nine euros, and if he works 15 hours, it'll cost nine euros. And if its hourly item is 3 euros, it will cost 9 euros, or if the hourly item is 10 euros. And that, respected colleagues and colleagues, is wrong. This is unfair because taxes and contributions, or mainly contributions, should be charged from some real value in this case and not least from the number of hours spent. I also find it difficult to accept the fact that these values, which we have been talking about for so long, are such a key problem and an important area that the Government is dealing with right now. Despite opposition even by some coalition partners within the coalition, the government is introducing a solution that is an experiment. This is an experiment that we'll see in time whether it works or not. And I think it's very irresponsible to experiment with people at this time. During this time, people especially need not a new form of work, but work as such. And not just a job like that, but a decent job. And we'll never achieve this with the valors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u173	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, the position will be presented by Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u174	Nicely greeted! The law on prevention of work and employment is the last in the package of laws on combating the grey economy, which are part of the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities – and, of course, I want to say that there is still a whole range of other legal solutions that belong to the work of other ministries – and represents a strategy against the grey economy set by this government as one of its priorities. We've talked a lot about the content of the marriage and talked about it. In addition to better control over employment and black work, which will include employees in the current inspection and thus increase the number of workers who will exercise better control. It will introduce a better review of the work on the basis of civil law contracts or contracts for the performance of temporary and temporary work, as contracts that constitute the basis for carrying out this work must always be at the place of work and the law will also give rise to stricter sanctions, increased fines, and the taking away of the assets obtained by working in black. The law also brings important news when it comes to the regulation of personal complementary work; these have raised the most dust. Initially, it should be pointed out that temporary and occasional work should be distinguished from other more regular forms of work for part, half or even full-time work that are regulated in other laws. This form of work is not an alternative to these other forms, since it is carried out periodically, to a limited extent, and the usual revenue from this source represents the supplementary income from other statuses enjoyed by that person who carries out the activity. The law that we are considering today introduces innovations that will allow greater transparency and control over this type of work, since the register of persons doing this work will then be made publicly available, while the individual for the official registration of his activities will also be encouraged by obtaining a proportionate right to pension and health insurance. The contribution for these two forms of insurance will be settled monthly by each service provider through a value of €9. The proposed solutions in the law follow two objectives: bringing each work closer to the principle is considered and at the same time ensuring that the process of registration and payment is as simple as possible. As it is said, this is a search for a solution that is sailing between Scylla and the Caribbean. This should also encourage the legalisation of occasional and temporary work, which is very often carried out in black. It seems that Slovenians still do not know enough about the harmfulness of the grey economy to all information calculations. This knowledge is particularly important in times of crisis when we constantly listen to how devoured the country is and how burdensome the economy is to its functioning. We are not aware that it is also in the grey economy that is between 17% and 25% of the gross domestic product in Slovenia, according to some data. The tolerant attitude towards the grey economy in Slovenian society is worrying. The knowledge that those who do not pay taxes, contributions and other charges also benefit from the services of the State, which we pay fairly to all others, should be and should encourage a negative attitude towards the grey economy which should be prevented by all means. The grey economy means the loss of tax revenue and other duties which the State must replace with higher taxes elsewhere. It also means, as we are often warned by representatives of the small economy, unfair competition in the labour market. It allows unfair, free-of-charge access to public services and social benefits that have not been paid, minimum or even zero social security and could still be listed. Freckles, only a trifle in this story are also proposals covered by the new law on job prevention and employment, which is in front of us. It's true how successful we'll be, it'll show time. We advocates of the law are sure of that. However, I would certainly like to encourage the Government to make an evaluation of this law, following the analogy of other solutions, which is expected to be a basis for finding the same or better solutions as only paper. The draft law is in line with the social partners, and some amendments have also been made to the comments of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which were presented at the meeting of the parent committee itself. Since we reached the agreement of all the parties, the additions were included in the amendments we adopted in the second reading of the law. We will support the law in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Pavlisič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u176	Thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the Ministry, distinguished colleague, distinguished colleagues! The aim of the bill is to increase the powers of supervisory authorities, to provide a basis for more efficient work by supervisory authorities, to define a clearer definition of individual concepts and measures of law, and to strengthen sanctions for infringements of the law and consequently to reduce the scope of work and employment in black. One of the major changes introduced by the law is certainly the extension of the powers of the customs administration, which is likely to be able to control work in black as well as employment in black. It also regulates neighbourhood and related assistance, which will be redesigned until the third relative knee. The amendment of the law also lays down new, higher fines for such offences and solutions that enable more effective control. For this purpose, in the case of work performed under a civil law contract or a contract for the performance of temporary or occasional work, a copy of the contract shall be kept at the place of work. In addition, the definition of illicit advertising and the simplified procedure for the application of short-term work is further specified. In particular, it is envisaged to take away the assets obtained by working in black. In the Civil Gazette, we objected to the introduction of personal supplementary work valuations. We simply do not believe in bureaucratic ideas of introducing ever-new papers in order to regulate a particular area. In the process of enacting the law, we have cited a number of arguments and concerns against that solution. However, the National Assembly has decided by a majority, and the National Assembly has not adopted an appropriate amendment to this area in spite of all the votes of the Civil Gazette against the values, which would make less bureaucratic and systematic sense, which we have been reminded of both in the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and in the Institute of Health Insurance. So now all we have left is to monitor how this change will prove to be in practice and to react quickly. It would be nice if the proposer also indicated the specific, measurable objectives pursued by this amendment. This would avoid subjective criteria for the changes introduced. In Slovenia, all too often we turn to legal changes when we find that something is not working for us, and instead of looking at the weaknesses of the current system and making the necessary, usually minor changes, we make a legislative breakthrough and a salad along with it and then we need months to make changes. In the meantime, fishing in mud continues.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u177	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, Mr Jakob Presečnik will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u178	Thank you again very much for your words, Madam Vice-President. All present, once again a good-bye! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support any arrangement that would bring down labour and employment to black, as well as the proposed improvement in the control and greater impact of the work of inspectors, as well as greater penalties for lawbreakers. In any case, the fact that employment and work have a negative impact on both the competitiveness of our economy and the rights of the operators of such work is a fact that they do not have adequate protection at work and recognised social rights from such work. The question arises, however, what is the correct methodology for determining the share of the grey economy in order to be comparable with other countries. The fact is, you're too much in Slovenia. The biggest problem we see in this law in this proposal is the so-called values. We did not get the appropriate assurances and explanations in the debate, which would convince us that the new system of valuations and the new arrangements for personal complementarities will bring about an improvement that would reduce unemployment or reduce work in black. At first glance, it seems a positive attempt by the proposer to offer the possibility of registering a personal supplemental work and thereby allowing for supervision, and to set at least minimum social rights contributions, as said for pension allowance of 7 euros and for health care of 2 euros, according to the principle that each work is considered by the Members of the SLS Group to be proposed and supported under the pension law. However, a more detailed review and review of the voucher system shows a number of shortcomings and inconsistencies in the registration and payment of contributions. The proposed method is not comparable to any of the systems in countries where similar arrangements have been introduced, so it is not possible to compare effects. This also raises the problem of an appropriate programme that will cover or address this area and the memory of programme underdevelopment or the problem with programmes related to – I think it is called the law on the exercise of social assistance rights. We accepted it a few years ago, it was established about two years ago, and the ministry still has too many problems with it today. A great deal of concern about the apparent inequalities of operators and, of course, of service seekers in the prescribed manner and procedure, since the operator of one hour of personal supplemental work is treated the same way as someone who will report both work for most of the time of the month or for maximum permitted hours for personal supplemental work. And how will the inspection services control that? After all, we have a positive direction for more inspectors, for more efficient work of inspectors, but how will they control it? For the four walls or, as mentioned earlier today, for house investigations? Although it was stated in the explanatory memorandum that the proposal should be aligned with the social partners, on a proposal from the law, the comments of the municipality and the community of municipalities regarding the arrangements of the personal supplementary work and also the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, as regards the type of work permitted in the form of neighbourhood assistance, as well as the types of work in the form of personal supplementary work, are still available. And there's something else I'd like to point out about the values themselves. That their fate would not be like the fate of the transporters. Remember, transporters for wood transport from the forest to the first buyer or first consignee. Six months from now, we have at least temporary carriers – and I believe that we will also accept that this abolition of carriers will be permanent. And what happened? How many problems in the field? How bad is it between people? And of course not insignificant: how much costs? Given the vague consequences of the adopted law and the inadequacy of procedures, in particular the new arrangements for personal complementary work, the law cannot be supported by members of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u179	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, the position will be presented by Mrs Marija Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u180	Thank you for your word. Say good-bye to everyone again! The grey economy in a broader sense is a multi-layered problem that is rooted in all the times of our daily life and needs to be tackled in a comprehensive and systematic manner. The prevention of work and employment in black is only one part of the problem of the grey economy. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the new law on job prevention and employment has taken an important step towards detecting and preventing black work, and we will, of course, support it. Effective control is an important aspect of detection and prevention of black work and therefore the new law strengthens control in the field, including the customs administration. The new law also increases sanctions for lawbreakers. In doing so, in our Group of Members, we advocate that penalties must be high enough to deter a potential offender from violating it. Better work of the supervisory authorities will also be facilitated by access to certain databases, which will serve as a basis for linking different records with a view to preventing social and tax abuses. With regard to increasing the possibility of effective control and action, it is also a new obligation that in cases where work with the employer is carried out under other civil law contracts, i.e. in the case of any other contractual relationship which is not the legal basis for which the employment contract is not classical, the labour contract, a copy of this contract shall be kept at the place of work. We must not ignore the fact that advertising the implementation of works or services also contributes to the presence and increase of the grey economy. Under the new law, advertising of work carried out through civil law contracts is thus prohibited. The novelty of this law, however, is the introduction of vouchers or valuations in personal complementary work. The value will, on the one hand, be the basis for the payment of social contributions, which will be separated from the work performed in person. Personal complementary work will be within the framework of a set of possible activities to be redefined by the competent ministry. Given the definition so far, the set of activities will be somewhat expanded. Individual complementary work will be available to all who will be registered for this work; these may be unemployed, may be employed persons, may be retired. In principle, each work will be taken into account by the operators of the personal supplemental work to obtain much in the light of the regulation so far, as the payment of the valuation will also constitute a contribution to the pension allowance, with the operator earning at the retirement age. Pensioners, who will also pay €7 per currency in their pension allowance, are in solidarity with this contribution to strengthen the pension allowance. Finally, we must not forget that our pension system operates on the principle of complementarity and solidarity. However, another positive aspect of the introduction of vouchers is that it is possible to control both operators and contracting entities in part, as the valuation will be introduced in the eGovernment web portal, thus ensuring very easy supervision of the competent authorities. On the other hand, both the contractor and the contracting authority will be protected against a high fine that could otherwise be incurred under inspection if the work was done illegally. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia we see the process of applying to the system of valuations for both the contracting entity and the contractor of the work very easy. Even older people who do not have the ability to work with a computer or even other obstacles that prevent them from reporting the need for a particular part personally in an administrative unit have the opportunity to, for example, submit a request through another person and pay a value. Members and Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia also find it crucial that personal complementary work is exclusively temporary and occasionally limited and that earnings are limited because we believe that, in the case of long-term and large-scale work, other forms of legal work are more appropriate, based on regular employment, registered entrepreneurship or various civil contracts. However, by preventing the possibility of unfair competition against those legal persons who, in the framework of their registered activities, have been able to carry out the work that individuals under their personal complementary work have so far been able to do, by means of a new and from now on personal complementary work. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we will support this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u181	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, the position will be presented by Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u182	Dear President, Secretary of State with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Black work reduces the social security of workers and reduces the social protection system for income. It also causes unfair competition for small and medium-sized enterprises that have driven our development. That is why we Christian Democrats are working towards more effective monitoring and sanctioning of black work. In New Slovenia, we believe that some of the solutions in the proposal are good and appropriate, while others see the danger of the area being reversed and birocraticized, and some have been released. The latter is pointed out by the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, which exposes the potential damage that the adoption of the proposal would cause to Slovenian tourism, in particular to tourism and museum guides. The restriction on the implementation of personal complementary work for legal persons will bring a number of problems for museums across the country, which will therefore be reduced to the possibility of flexible hire of guides. We Christian Democrats believe that it is the duty of the government to adopt such legislation that makes it easier for businesses and institutions, but not difficult to operate. The causes of a large percentage of the grey economy are also the actions of the current government. In the past year, we have experienced so many tax hikes that we are not able to follow them at all. People, individuals and businesses are not so motivated to pay taxes fairly, but the state is in some way encouraging them to look for different ways to avoid paying taxes. The government should therefore, in the first place, address the causes, lower taxes and then make order in this area. Christian Democrats also do not consent to the intimidation of entrepreneurs, especially of the innguests, in recent times, through media-response actions by the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. Nowhere have we heard how successful these actions have been for the state budget. We still argue that the tax order is not established through the media, but through a regulated and functioning system that motivates entrepreneurs to pay taxes. In Nova Slovenija, we estimate that the coalition has missed the opportunity to listen to the opposition's proposals in particular with regard to the implementation of the values. According to our assessment, it is a new bureaucratic obstacle that will bring about a new disorder mainly in the area of pension insurance. We do not believe that personal complementary work after paying contributions to health and social insurance will be paid at all and remain interesting as one of the alternatives. In many cases, however, it is introduced and used as the last and only option for survival. Therefore, the Members of New Slovenia will not support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u183	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Maja Dimitrovski.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u184	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! According to our assessment, the draft law on job prevention and employment follows two basic objectives: greater legal certainty for workers and prevention of the grey economy. All of this will be enabled by more intensive supervision, as the inspection body is also being completed with the customs administration employees. In the first section, the law lays down sanctions for those employers and related business partners in which workers are employed in black. This means that they carry out regular work for them, but they are not registered for any insurance, they are not paid any contributions. It is therefore a possibility to work in black with which an employer or an individual makes it possible for one or more persons to perform their work in black. What kind of black work is it? This is the work in which a legal person, domestic or foreign, carries out an activity which is not specified in the establishment act or where he does not have statutory instruments to fulfil the conditions for carrying out a particular activity in the basic act. This is a job where a self-employed person carries out an activity that is not entered into a register or does not have statutory instruments to fulfil the conditions for carrying out that activity. It is also a matter of work when a legal person carries out an activity despite the prohibition of its operation, when a foreign legal entity provides services or activities in the Republic of Slovenia without a registered branch or without a statutory authorisation. But so that we do not simply talk about black work, let me recapture the exceptions laid down by law. It is the neighbourhood assistance, the related assistance, where work in its own direction is included, the urgent work being done to prevent accidents or to eliminate the consequences of natural and other accidents, and the personal complementary work provided for in the Rules on these works. Let me list only more common: assistance in household tasks, training, child protection and other forms to be determined by the Regulation already mentioned. Personal complementary work is that part of the bill that is being amended in a new way, which has been given the highest priority in both the first and second readings, and I believe that this debate will also be devoted to this today. This is a new concept, which introduces a fortune teller or so - called sheepfold to carry out this work. In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia we have tried to justify our agreement with such a solution in a broader debate. Why? We are confident that this work will be more useful, no doubt it will be easier to control this work, it will be difficult not to issue invoices and thus avoid paying contributions to health and pension insurance. Some discussers are convinced that such a way of performing a personal complementary work will be too bureaucratic, which we do not see in Positive Slovenia. It is simply a matter of making it possible for those who want to do this work and for those who want to take advantage of it to be able to meet the legal requirements with a simple click. As my fellow Member has said, let us allow all involved to resolve their status, thus contributing to the reduction of the grey economy and in some way ensuring a peaceful sleep. Many times in the debate, it seemed as if we were reintroducing personal complementary work, but that is not the case. Personal complementary work is now legally determined, and much more work and uncertainty is involved in preparing and then hiring and implementing these forms of work. Today it is not possible to report this work with a simple click, nor is it possible to hire such a contractor with a simple click. Personal supplementary work must also be reported by everyone in the administrative unit today and then reported to the tax administration for three months. The intervention law in the field of health contributions has charged this work with 6,35 %, which means that the current income of the contractor of these works is lower than it would have been after the adoption of this law. Therefore, the evidence of the introduction of some new valuation taxes is incorrect. Of course, this person could still be working in black. And it is here that we agree with the proposaler's position that we offer an opportunity with a valuer to all personal work providers and thus encourage them to do their work and perhaps in the long term to obtain early retirement conditions. Hence, it is not just a law that increases control, it sometimes increases penalties, but it is a law that is positive, as it also contains incentives. In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, we will support the proposal for a law on prevention of work and employment in black with the hope that the number of persons who are registered to perform personal complementary work – today there are 8 000 – will increase, making each individual secure his or her status, and each payer will be given security by clicking on the button to hire such work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u185	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the draft law as a whole. Mr Matevž Frangež, Mr Franz Bogovic, and then Mrs Marija Plevčak, were first reported.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u186	Dear colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I must express my joy that the concept of valuation has survived until this point of parliamentary consideration. As we know, at the time of the second hearing, there was a serious danger that this concept would be erased from the law. I am pleased that I believe it is the duty of the country to adapt to social reality and to allow and develop legal alternatives to black work. We all know that this is a serious problem in Slovenia, weakening our cash social security and the country. The worst part is that it is often the case that those who benefit from social solidarity do not contribute to it, and solidarity must be based on reciprocity, that I pay taxes and social security contributions with the promise that when I am old, sick, unemployed, I will receive these benefits from social solidarity – that I will round up the idea because I am a little confused – that anyone who pays social security funds or pays taxes will know that these funds can also benefit when the situation arises. The fact is that we are not all making the same contribution in the country today, nor are we doing our best. In this respect, the value is a good way for me and there is no alternative to regular forms of work, but it is an alternative to black work. In these days, I am hearing a lot of criticism that the 9-euro valuation is very low on rights. This needs to be confirmed, but it should be borne in mind that the value of the Institute of Personal Complementary Labour is not intended to replace tomorrow regular forms of employment or work, entrepreneurship contracts or other civil law contracts, but is very focused and targeted on that population of people who are today, but I say that it is quite mass, serving in black as forms and opportunities to strengthen their social situation. None of these people are happy to do so, doing so out of necessity. Critics of the evaluators say that administratively complex process. I think that the process, as far as possible, is easy to connect the various institutions that have to operate in this system, but of course the initiative is on the side of the one who orders such work and on the side of the one who offers such work, when the bill is issued and when the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia has to report it periodically. I am confident that by the law on prevention of black work this time indeed, and I hope that without any unnecessary referendum, we will set up a very clear separation of socially acceptable and unacceptable behaviours, within that we will allow legal alternatives to black work, and I would like the entire Slovenian policy to recognize the opportunity in this attempt and promote it together so that more and more people will decide to black out the work so far for a legal form of work. I submit that in recent crisis years, due to the fall in the law on prevention of black work in the June 2011 referendum, there was a great deal of time left for Slovenia to do more in this area. It is precisely the crisis years in which we should do more with social awareness of the harmfulness of work and employment. I am pleased that the Government, with a relatively courageous plan, has moved into an offensive and that the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities have fully fulfilled its commitments under this programme today's consideration of this law. I'll support the law at the head with my valedictorian.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Several of the debaters who have been reported have given up the debate, so I now give the floor to Mrs Ludmila Novak. Ms Jana Jenko and Mr Ivan Vogrin prepare for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u188	Madam Vice-President, Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! Surely work on black unfair competition is to those entrepreneurs, tradesmen who pay all taxes, all the contributions they have to put into the price and, on the other hand, people who work in black and do not have to pay these contributions. I therefore fully agree that it is necessary to arrange for all of us to pay our contributions. However, I speak on behalf of those who have turned to me with a letter, pointing out the following problem. For example, the handicrafts' society, which manufactures homemade and artificial crafts, continues a tradition, shows it at various events, fairs, exhibitions, stands, and the sale of some sort of napkin, some kind of product for a few euros, with which their work is certainly not paid. And now they say they're just not going to go away, they don't even hope, because they're giving more for materials than they're going to cash in at all, and they're going to have a lot of administrative work with the ratings, with the reporting, and so on. They even say that some of the events, some exhibitions, are already cancelled because they are too few for the exhibition because they simply do not hope to do so anymore. High penalties will have to be paid for something for which they should be given recognition and a reward, for such people who continue a tradition that preserves domestic trade, which makes products that go to waste, but are part of our tradition, should be commended and rewarded in their own way. I don't think it's good that we put this in the same marriage as working in black. This is something completely different for me, and we should arrange this area differently, so that people are encouraged to do so, because it is usually pensioners who earn an extra few euros to pay for material because they have some knowledge that they transfer to young generations, but with these administrative obstacles we will crush them. Maybe he'll stay inside the family, but they won't go to the events or exhibit, just for that reason because they're afraid they'll be punished for it. Unfortunately, in many cases we have such laws that average citizens do not even understand because they are too complicated. And if we want to go towards promoting the economy, promoting entrepreneurship, promoting complementary activities, we should be working just to simplify these procedures, flat-rate taxation and not hinder people from their creativity, in their desire to work. Because in the end, it's worth it more, that you don't do anything, that you wait for social assistance, because you have the least problems. I do not think that this should be our intention, but we must strive to encourage people to be creative, encourage them to work, of course also to pay taxes, but by reason of the wisdom and regulations they will understand, which will be simple, which will not constitute additional obstacles and overwork. I am pleased to see that the Secretary of State is likely to answer something. In short, I would like to point out that the rules for this activity should simplify, encourage people to preserve our cultural heritage, not further restrict them.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr Levanic also took the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u190	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm going to try and answer a few more dilemmas. If I forget anything, I'll be happy to come back later. First of all, we need to be aware that this is the third law, only by the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the same opportunities that went into the set of laws on the management of the grey economy. We are part of the commitments that we will first allow more security for workers and workers here, in particular by adopting a law on parental records, where we all knew there was a problem, but no one in the past took this step forward and did not protect what was happening on the ground. We knew that when the inspector came to the field and found a worker on the spot and asked him how long this worker had been doing an activity here, the employer could say that he had only come yesterday because he had eight days to apply for social security and concluded an employment contract with him. We have prevented this, we have said that when a worker is on the ground, that moment must be a contract of employment, that moment must be entered into social security, and thus protect what has happened to the anomalies, the violation of the rights of those who have been most or least protected, in particular the least protected. The next step, very important, was to strengthen inspection services. We've heard a lot about the problems they have in the field, what they're dealing with, how they can better get to those who create crimes that create work and work in black, and how we can help them here with another law, i.e. the Labour Inspection Act. The third law is the law on prevention of work and employment in black. The key issue is not just the introduction of values; anything else is possible. This is one of the segments where we wanted to make this personal complementary work more polite, so that people would actually serve it, not like today, when there is actually this form of work, but people do not report it because of the complexity. So once again, with the transfer of powers to the customs administration, we increase the control of employment and work to black. This is essential in this law. There is an increase in some of the penalties for so-called bullying, which today, indeed, constitutes unfair competition for craftsmen and those who have employees and pay contributions, and therefore are punished and not competitive, so that in this segment the inspectors are grateful to us for having more tools in their hands when they work on the ground, together with the customs service, which now represents a massive number of people who will be able to do this work on the ground, compared to what was previously the case when we had 44 inspectors on the ground for 170 thousand or more legal entities, which was essentially impossible to review. So we have taken steps and made several procedures in a series of our legislation this year, so that control and punishment will be a little worse if I can put it that way, because we still have a problem in mind that we do not go in the direction of paying bills, that contributions should be paid and so on, because we want to get the best through through our own line of least resistance. And this is a big problem for the whole country, as we know. And if I go back specifically to the values that may be cancer early in the debate on this law. I'm just going to start by saying that those who say today's system is complicated, okay? Today, personal complementary work is a very complicated process, about 8,000 have been reported. It was only when we started the debate on personal complementary work that quite a few people applied more because they even knew that this institution existed, and they wanted to register their personal complementary work, and in this way they could pay one part of the country, get some right to themselves, but still it's a complicated system, as we've seen it and there is today. That is why we wanted to move forward mainly in simplifying procedures and agree with those who say why we did not look at the existing system and simplify it a little bit. And that's exactly what we did with this law. All a person who does a personal background job has to do is apply to an administrative unit. That's all he has to do. It will then be published on a public list in Ipez, where the subscriber will choose it from home online and pay EUR 9 for it. If he does not have the Internet, he will do it on the administrative unit – he will choose it on the list of works, he will choose a person and pay EUR 9 for it. These 9 euros will be counted in one day of retirement, 7 euros of which and 2 euros for health insurance as soon as this person does his job. That's all it is of this procedure. And once again, no one's forcing anyone to actually do that. This is now of crucial importance. We don't charge extra, tax and patch holes because of the fall of the real estate law, far from it. The comparative sum of this is so minimal, given what we've actually lost there, that in this way it would be really completely pointless to bring people around and it wouldn't have anything to do with what we're doing with this value. With these 9 euros, we only encourage those who are already ordering personal complementary work so that it will not be a big cost to them. Nine euros a month will give their share for the country, so that they can legally order someone, i.e. child protection or cleaning, weeding, training and so on, and on the other hand, the person who does this extra work will have some of it – he will have one day of retirement. We can't do housework. The fear of the people in the National Assembly, that we will examine by house examinations who cleans the house or who cuts the grass, gives instructions, is really pointless because, for the first time, it is impossible, nor would it be right to scare people and go to their homes. This is just some basis that we're going to leave in peace and not even in the near future, and I hope that someone has no idea that we're going to do this in the future, because it's unacceptable and dotting. But it was with this very institute, which is not expensive and which is very simple, that we wanted to encourage those who would have an interest in applying at all. This is all we can do as a country – let us encourage some interest that those who want to have one of these will actually apply and this work will be done. The same applies to collectors of various herbs, handicrafts and so on. Their monthly cost is 9 euros, only 9 euros, and they have done their part to the country, legally able to produce and sell this product. For 9 euros a month, they cut their share to the country. And in this context, we went to the monthly flat and not to the daily, because if we went to the daily flat, then the matter would be complicated, the surveillance would be disabled, and there would be no incentive for anyone to go to the point of even keeping records after hours, after days, to be very precise about what he is doing and how he is doing. For a month with one subscriber, €9. If it has 4 subscribers, 4 times 9 euros is paid by the contracting authority, and for the contracting entity, it is a small cost, and for the one who does so, and the right to one day of retirement – motivation is for those who do not have the opportunity today, have no job, motivation for those who work half-time to be able to do so, because something exists, they provide work in a different way. That is one such element, which is definitely not a bureaucratic obstacle because it is much easier than the current system. It is much easier to register a personal supplemental work, and it is true that, after that, income is paid out of it, as it does from any profit, but it is true that this income is limited, you can earn EUR 450 per month, and it is limited by the list of works. All works will not be able to be done through personal complementary work, which is also right, because they would come back into conflict of interest with craftsmen or those who otherwise engage in certain activities. So, just certain parts, just a certain amount that's limited a month, so we don't get over the amount that means providing minimum wage. We would like all of us to have a little more confidence in what we do together. Believe me, we have not introduced a system of valuations because we would like to make life more difficult for anyone or to tighten the system that is not working today. And in this National Assembly, if you remember when we took a measure to exempt employers from the payment of contributions if they hire young people for an indefinite period of time – there was a lot of scepticism, a lot of scepticism in the direction: this measure will not be taken, this measure will not be good and so on. But we went with him because in many areas we want to look at what we can do about the financial resources we have for someone in this country to make it easier for them. At the expense of this measure, we only hired thousands and some young people in January and February for an indefinite period of only two months. So some things may be moving or we may at least get a partial recognition that we have done something. So in the system of values, I would much more like for those who look at it skeptically or don't trust it today to encourage people publicly to register, to register in this way, to go in this way of personal complementary work, and if the measure didn't work then, you could say with your head up in front of everyone: we were right, we told you, we warned you, the measure doesn't work, let it change. Now that we are defending one party in the National Assembly, the other, we are scaring people with housework – believe me, of course, there is a lot of scepticism before any change, there is usually a lot of concern, concern and, above all, mistrust about something new. And we create this, so much we have to be honest, even here in the National Assembly, and of course that's not right. In the end, maybe for this first round. Definitely not an experiment, but not an experiment on people. We believe that we have taken one step, a big step forward, that personal complementary work will be more polite, more desirable and that people will serve it more, and we are not experimenting for it, but we are prepared, as the government or every ministry should be prepared, if it sees that the matter does not turn out as it should in practice or as expected, in this case, that you are going into change and that you are doing even better. So we believe that this part of the law, a small part of the law, is a very important step in regulating personal supplemental work, I am specifically talking about the black work that is going on today, but there are other things in the law that are even more important, allowing inspectors to do better work in the field, which strengthen inspection services that increase penalties for those who commit offences and violations today. So that we can do something together, and above all within the entire grey economy, to change the mindset, that black work, black employment is not worth it, and that it is doing harm to those who pay taxes every day and do their part to the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Vogrin has been reported for word. After him, Mr. Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'm really gonna earn my salary today. I'm talking about it for the third time. I'm really glad. Albert Einstein said a remarkable thought: "The only source of knowledge is experience." Mr. Levanic, you're the Secretary of State. You talk about how people should be taxed or how they should earn money. Let me answer if you have ever worked in the private sector in your life and have been forced to earn two euros on your own, unless you were a student. Then maybe we can understand what you're saying and what I'm saying. I am only once in my life in the public sector as a Member, and this will be our proposal to have Members in the future 50, and this will be unprofessional, because this is not the way Members make decisions, state bureaucrats. As far as this proposed law is concerned, this is another clever nonsense. You know why? Because we are, I speak as a country because on behalf of the country, Minister Uroš Chufer donated EUR 50 million to the US fund PIMCO. “ We Are Hunting, ” says Finance, 22. 4, check-in-someone who's gonna go take care of a kid who's gonna go help a neighbor. People, my dear, what do we do? The fact that people work in black is a result of high taxes and bureaucratic barriers. No country has yet been able to reduce the grey economy with high taxes. Let's try to understand that. It's ancient wisdom. Winston Churchill said: "To increase the welfare of the population by taxation and by increasing taxes, the same is true of you as if you step into an empty bucket and try to raise yourself by hand." Mr. Levanic, I don't think you've tried this. Let's try that. Then it's no wonder what comes from government officials. The laws are not written by the government or written by Parliament. The laws are written by bureaucratic murderers who have led Slovenia to extinction in 22 years. In the last two years, the current government has been indebted to us, as long as we haven't yet, and we are now about to take credit in a month, two and a half and a half, for 14 billion euros. Do you know how much money that is? That's $14,000 million. This is 2 euros for every countryman, not a citizen of Slovenia. This time we're sitting here, this hour, we're back in debt for a million. Today, you and I have received 12 euros in public debt and about 400 euros a month, approximately. I told you once before because I was counting. You know what we're doing? We don't even understand what we're doing. Last time we had Minister Pikal's interpellation. A million 400s split their friends between each other, nothing. And you're going to be taxing people because they're going to be [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] You know they're all laughing at us. Everyone's laughing at us. I have little kids. That I would walk the administrative unit or where you predicted it — there is not a smart man in this country who would do it. He's not here. You know why not? Because you must first start paying taxes honestly! As long as we keep foreign financial institutions, we steal millions of dollars of money because here we find it to be stolen, so long citizens are not obliged to pay taxes honestly! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u194	Thank you for your word. In fact, I didn't want to react to this, but, Mr Vogrin, with you, I don't debate on a personal level and I would ask that you don't either. But if you want the answer to your question, if I have ever worked in the private sector – I have. I've been in this position for a year, and I've experienced some other things, but you don't know my personal life, you can't possibly judge what I've put through and where I've learned anything. That's the first one, because I don't judge you, and I expect you won't judge me either. And perhaps as much advice as you gave me here ten. I would like Members and Members, especially you who come from the real sector, to read the laws, because if you know what's going on in the field, you will be able to interpret them correctly when you read them and see that we are not banning neighbourhood aid far from it. This could also be seen from the amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, and neighbouring, related assistance is allowed. We don't hunt witches or someone who cleans houses. Maybe a little more respect for all those who argued something here, maybe we believe in something and there was some work invested not only on my part, far away from it, but the whole team at the Ministry, who may not be completely bureaucratic killers, but they want to do something good for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Vizjak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u196	Thank you so much for saying that. The new law on job prevention and employment has several solutions. Some are perfectly fine and I personally support them, as is the case that the customs administration and customs officers are additionally engaged in the pursuit of work and employment in black. It's actually an old idea that's legal, and all right and all. Some other solutions are, let's say, necessary, but not crucial and will not significantly change the functioning of this phenomenon, which is a European, global and, of course, Slovenia's – that people work in certain segments without being declared insured, do not pay taxes of this kind and, of course, risk a lot. But I don't understand some of the solutions that not only are in conflict with past experiences, but they are plagued by healthy logic. The Ministry of Labour specifically expects that there will be more registered personal complementary work, which is said to be a more formally adjusted personal supplemental work, while at the same time placing additional financial and administrative burden on this work. This is really not only a struggle with the experience that additional burdens, literally taxes – Mr Vogrin has said here quite correctly, it is not a contribution; it is a tax in particular. EUR 9 per value is a pure tax, and I will explain why this is the case. And the Secretary of State will probably understand, because I'm not going to think about it, and I'm going to say it without a relationship. It's just a tax that has nothing to do with any insurance. So, this 9-euro personal supplementary work tax is being introduced and at the same time someone who needs this personal supplemental work is forced to go to some kiosk or buy it somewhere. It is said that one must make a journey there and consciously devote himself to it. He's not gonna do that. I don't know why he would do that. I don't know why he would do that or why he would pay for it. And you expect there to be more registered personal supplemental work from now on, because you have additional financial and bureaucratic burdened it. This is in conflict with logic, Sir Levanic. Now I'm going to explain to you why I think it's a tax. In fact, the insured person or the beneficiary of a personal supplemental work must buy a value of €9 and part of the euro goes to the pension register and to the health treasury. Nowhere is this contribution linked to the scope of the work. Otherwise, he's been replaced for a month, but he's not connected to the scope of his work. He can work an hour, he can work 20 hours, the number is 9 euros. And none of this goes against that man's pension. In short, the basic elements of the insurance are not taken into account. It is said that someone pays something and therefore does not have a greater insurance base, and what he pays has nothing to do with the extent of what he does. It's a simple tax. And that, Mr Secretary of State, is diametrically contrary to the basic mission of pension law. We wanted to introduce logic into pension legislation, based on insurance, so you're paying for something, and then you get something later. And even in this we went to look at the personal record or what it's called, how much someone pays you for it, and of course you expect a higher pension. I wonder if the person XY will personally be doing a lot of extra work, as a result of this, to have more pensions. Nothing, nothing's gonna have any more pension. The only thing you're doing is that she'll have one day per month of work, in short, that this condition of scale will change, but she won't have any more pension for that. And here I think that this is a huge deviation from the insurance principle and from what the pension system is actually intended for, and I cannot give myself any other opinion than that this is one clumsy attempt at filling the pension and health allowance, and this, once again, deviates from the insurance system. There is also something true — that someone who is medically insured at the second address and will be covered by the complementary work and that value will not go beyond that supplementary work. It will be protected, as it is insured, for the basic scope of rights, and therefore will not have any new, additional or better healthcare services. I'm saying, the only thing that's going to happen is that one value is going to be counted as one day of retirement. That's all. But look, it's diametrically contrary to the basic concept of pension legislation, because it's going to get for a month one day, even if it worked 15 days, or if it worked two days, or if it worked an hour. He'll have one day. So, look, this is really a departure from the system, and I don't understand how you expect the shipments of these registered or registered ones to be more than they have been reported so far, unless you can convince anyone that it will benefit him. Therefore, I strongly advise you that if you get yourself to regulate personal complementary work, make this work attractive for him to report, this is a true employee, and for the employer, for both. You both have to feel like you got something out of it. Otherwise, if you increase the burden, administrative and financial, these legal forms will be avoided. I would really ask you to understand one sacred legality – that additional regulation and higher contributions are fertilizer, humus for the grey market, employment and black work, not vice versa. That's the logic she's always held and will be. And you start talking to me about letting us trust you once and for all. We've heard this from the government a number of times for this table, and last but not least at the real estate tax, look at the fiasco you've experienced. You have also started talking about some achievements in the labour market, but it is clear from all the data that unemployment in Slovenia is higher in March than in March last year when you took over, by about 3%, registered unemployment is higher. Yes, of course, you will look at the figures that February was higher, that January was higher, in short, all months since you ruled, registered unemployment in this country is higher, and you are saying that your actions are being taken. I note that they do not accept and therefore, in this concrete solution, I do not believe that they will make a minimal contribution to better regulation of personal complementary work, and I guarantee you that these solutions will further lead to the shift and unattractiveness of personal complementary work because you regulate and burden it. So I would really expect you to believe us sometimes, not just expect us to believe you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. Visac. It's Mr. Fishych's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u198	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! A law for which it is not clear what consequences it will actually have and whether it will achieve its purpose, of course, I cannot support. However, I support any regulation that would bring down labour and employment in black, as well as the proposed improvement in control and the greater impact of the work of inspectors and greater penalties for lawbreakers. In this regard, we regret to note that this proposal does not correspond to the objectives and purposes set out in the law or not to the extent explained by the representatives of the Ministry and the Government. We did not get the appropriate assurances and explanations in the debate, which would convince us that the new system of valuations and the new arrangements for personal complementarities will bring about an improvement that would reduce unemployment or reduce work in black. A great deal of concern about the new regime is the fact that the relevant programme, which would support the entry process and the payment of the values, is not yet as we know it. Another major concern is the apparent inequalities between operators and also service seekers in the prescribed manner and the procedure, since the same treatment is given to the operator with one hour of personal supplemental work as to someone who will report both work for the whole month or for the maximum allowed hours for personal additional work. Although some of the articles in which we have had concerns have improved with amendments on the parental committee, there have been some improvements in the clarity of the complementary work. Although it was stated in the explanations that the proposal for a law should be aligned with the social partners, at the proposal of the law, the comments of the municipality and the community of municipalities regarding the arrangements of the personal supplementary work and also the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, both as regards the type of works authorised in the form of neighbourhood assistance and the types of work in the form of personal supplementary work. I do not support the law, because the consequences of the adoption of the law are not clear, procedures are inconsistent, in particular the arrangements for personal complementary work. We should, however, help, legalise the work in black, not complicate the legalisation of bureaucrats, only that they are important, and thus preserve their bureaucratic jobs and their own importance. That's wrong. And this solution in the proposed law supports and increases this red tape. I think that we have done the wrong thing to solve this problem and that we will have to invest some more energy in settling this area too, so that we are all satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr. Borut Ambrožič, you have the floor. You're giving up. The next is Mrs Jasmina Opec, who I do not see in the hall. Mrs. Iva Dimic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u200	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, Secretary of State! The New Slovenia Group has already said that it does not support the law under consideration. Once again, I would like to mention the introduction of valuations, which means that we are making it difficult and additionally introducing bureaucratic obstacles, making it difficult to do some work. Above all, it is important that we understand what personal complementary work means and also neighborly assistance. People may not be using this because it would be a form of recreation — anyone would rather take a walk or take a trip — but simply because it is probably one of their chances of survival in all this social distress. We are interfering with the introduction of the values into the area, I can say, currently the most socially weak in the country. They are those who actually want to work, but they don't find work, they may have social assistance, but most likely they don't, and then they're some house assistants, or they're dealing with something else. I would also like to mention the following. I don't know why you didn't listen to the handicrafts who do domestic art. Here I would like to point out that this is actually being used to a large extent, to the greatest extent already retired, disabled people and also farmers who actually see an additional obstacle in this or I will say that the value is not an incentive because they are already in retirement and one day the pension does not represent anything for them, and they actually think that they would leave it all together. But here, because this is one special category, it would still be necessary to listen and understand them in some way, because they preserve Slovenian culture, preserve Slovenian cultural landscape in some way, with their products originating from 100, 200 years ago, and should be encouraged more, but not with some additional bureaucratic obstacles such as valuations. I have already said in my position that higher contributions and additional taxes encourage the grey economy, because then everyone is looking for where and how it will come through this tax bailout, which is not encouraging. And here I have also said on the committee itself that the state should make sure that information technology at the Slovenian tax office can be able to take such a measure that it will not collapse and that tax collection will also begin there, and then some other bureaucratic obstacles could be put in place subsequently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u201	Thank you very much. I would now like to give the floor to Dr. Andreja Črnak Meglič. Mr Ivan Hršak, Mr Jože Tanko and Mr Jožef Horvat are preparing for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Much has already been said about this law, but I would like to reintroduce it into a broader context. The fight against the grey economy is very wide-ranging and must be implemented primarily in other areas, I agree, in the tax area, in the economic, economic and so on. This law is only one of the laws that is part of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and touches on regulating the area of the grey economy, which I hope we all agree is a major problem in Slovenia. I do not want to say anything with this that more should be done in other areas. On the contrary, I think that it is necessary and that these tax evasions and all that we have should not be so far as we have to do much more to ensure that there is no such thing. However, I do not underestimate the importance of this law, which has been drawn up by the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. I have said many times that one of the major problems in Slovenia in persecuting the grey economy is actually in our heads, in our incredible tolerance for this phenomenon, which we do not recognize in ourselves. Martin Krpan's syndrome would have been called that. This is our national hero who was smuggling and he was also a great hero because he brought around the country. We are also bringing around the country, but, of course, we are also poor in certain contributions, which could result in a more cost-effective or better-governed social state. This is the logic and therefore everything needs to be done to reduce the extent of the grey economy. As it is said, the law before us affects this area with a number of measures, with better supervision on the one hand, on the other hand also with a criminal policy that will now be sharper. At the same time, however, I would not be so disdainful of what the values bring. I would point out once again that the valuations or system of such a way of taxation of work are not Slovenian specialities that exist in some other countries. In Belgium, in particular, it was recognised that the introduction of such a method brought about a reduction in the volume of the grey economy. In short, it works somewhere else. After this analogy, our representatives of the legislative branch of power thought, too, when they presented this law to us. Why is he actually going? The point is that in the story of occasional and temporary work or work at home, which is carried out to a limited extent, which is usually a complement to some other forms of status, we are united by those who hire work and those who give work. And if we encourage them to do so by rewarding them with a certain rating, and this is for working with one performer one day of retirement, then we need to listen to what people say. My colleague runs an agency that provides work to younger people for home security. Her colleagues, to say the least, are thrilled about this measure. Above all, they realize how many hours they work, and they have nothing to do with it. True, this will not affect the amount of the pension, but it will affect the extent of the work that will be counted on the pension base. And if this work is done much, much even during the study period, of course this part is important to them. It is also important for those older persons who are socially at risk, who are also doing this work in order to cover the deficit they have in achieving the pension requirement. This will make it easier for them to come to this condition that we have written down in the new pension law. And many times they were deprived of it, even because their employers did not comply with the law. It's important to them. And they themselves acknowledge that they respect this measure. Therefore, when we contribute as tenants of this work, we encourage them to register their activity, even if it is carried out to a very small extent. That is why I welcome this measure. Of course, as I said in my opening statement, I encourage the Government to prepare an evaluation of the implementation of this measure, or of the whole law, so that we can see who is right. I personally believe that perhaps not to the full, but to a certain extent this measure will contribute to the reduction of the grey economy, and if not in the way we have imagined it, then on the basis of this evaluation we will foresee measures that will allow us to improve the law. I think that's a good thing to do. It is difficult to predict what will happen when we do not have our own experience. As I say, we have experience from other countries. Maybe one more thing. You say: let us reduce the burden of work and the scope of the grey economy will also be reduced. You know, countries with the smallest amount of black work are also countries with very high burdens. That's saying that this thesis doesn't exactly hold up. It all starts with our heads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u204	Thank you so much for saying that. During this period, we monitor the legislation coming into the National Assembly and each measure brings some kind of person. One brings the transporter, the other brings the value-co. I don't know what the next step will bring. In fact, all these measures coming into the National Assembly are complications. A number of bureaucratic barriers are brought about, and in the end there are no special effects, except that there are extremely high penalties for all these documents. It's a very high punishment. The only thing this bureaucratic obstacle brings is the penal system. And if you look at the carriers under the Forest Act or in this case at the valuations of the line, you will find that it is essentially to penalise smallpox to penalise minor offences with enormous penalties. I asked the Minister of the Jews about these abnormally high penalties, which have been adopted in the last year in the field of agriculture and the environment or will still be in the Law on Nature. There's something similar about the marriage you have here that we're talking about right now. You know, if a marginal offence involves a measure of inspection, the entry of an inspector into the owner's property and so on, or an enormous penalty is imposed for it, then this is not a measure which would prevent something, is not a proportionate measure. If for one abuse, let's say in this area when someone makes 50 or 60 euros a month, they can pass a penalty of 26 thousand euros, then we are not talking about some measures that are proportionate to the content, with the work done or the gravity of the infringement. But let it be an individual, let it be the one who ordered this work or for anyone. These are the fundamental problems we face when we adopt laws with draconian penalties. We also have the Tax Procedure Act. That's what I warned the other day. There we have Article 398, where the chapter dealing with particularly serious tax offences, and let's say if tax evasion is found to be higher than EUR 5,000, it can be fined from €200 to €50,000 or a penalty of 20% is imposed for someone who does, but this limit, the lower limit of €200 and above €50,000. Even if the evasion is 3-million euros, the penalty is 50,000 euros, which means that a criminal cap is recorded for particularly serious tax offences. It is said that for more than that punishment cannot be pronounced. And here we're dealing with some, I'll say, problems. You're saying that we're saving those people with problems who are supposed to be doing this job when they're retired or anyone else, and in such cases, there's a penalty of up to $26,000. Now, tell me, do we have a problem with us that can't be great because it's a small job, small job, occasional work, dirty work after home, compared to particularly serious tax offences. There is no proportion, no proportion. And as long as it is proposed by the Ministry of the Economy to ensure the development of the labour market, to offer new jobs, and to deal with unfair business and employment and this minor infringement, because work is not particularly appreciated and expensive because it is small things, it penalises with enormous punishment, then something is very wrong in this part. Such a law, such solutions cannot in fact be accepted. Not particularly if the government is written down that the impact of this law will be €350,000 per year. It is said that only 10 penalties to be imposed in the event of infringements in this larceny work will be virtually greater than the effect with these values. And we can probably already consider that this measure is work because of work, so that some bureaucratic apparatus can activate itself, so that groups of people, officials, inspectors and so on can deal with it. I wonder what the net effect is then if the gross effect is EUR 350 000. What is the net effect of this law? Probably significantly lower, because the costs will certainly be at least two thirds of the impact that you are assessing. I believe that the Government in the field of labour, in the field of the economy, in the field of finance should use some outdated ABC method, which has been known for decades or beyond, and assess which are the key groups of problems and key groups of solutions that can help solve the problem. Here we deal with a group of problems or solutions that represent a few percent of the set. Instead of grabbing things that represent 70%, 80% of the problems, we are dealing with those measures that are practically marginal, and this is one of them. Work at home, neighbourly assistance or fourth knee in this area will not undermine the Slovenian economy, in any case. It won't ruin or set up a labour market. It will not undermine the growth of employment in this area, impossible. Because these are not the core problems of this society. They're not. The key problems in the labour market are elsewhere, the problems are elsewhere, and I think that in these areas, which are key, which represent 70.80% of the problems in this area, we should prepare solutions and address them. Same in the economy, in agriculture and elsewhere. And somewhere else. But here we are doing, I don't know, a few hours ago, and one or two more sessions ago and a working body – we are going to waste 20 hours of discussion for this law, and in the end the spoils are extremely, extremely small. Very small. You also wrote in your marriage that this effect is almost minor. It seems to me that these are not measures that fall under the National Reform Programme, which would not make any significant movement in the labour market, reduce unemployment or increase transparency in the labour market. And I can also say now that whenever a government where the left orientation prevails, only the forms appear, there are only some virtual measures, there are reallocations, and there are no big effects or even negative effects. Instead of releasing things to start happening on our own, we have an unknown will and desire to prescribe something, to regulate it. The more the matter is minor, the more proud we are of the action we have taken. It can't go like that. He can't go like that. And I suggest you do some key analysis and find out what the main problems are. The fact that a pensioner can handle an extra day with some paper, paper sheet, is not a solution, because neither the pensioner nor the state will have much of it except one walk to the official window or kiosk and so on, and nothing else. There are no special effects. Someone who would really like to have a relationship or to enforce certain special circumstances may have a maximum of 12 additional days per year for a pension. Does it take — how many years to complete a year? It takes about 20 years to get one year of retirement. This is a measure that brings nothing. The fact that the matter is still disproportionate is that in the same basket there are those who do the work for a few hours and those who do the work for a month. They're all under the same day. And I suggest that you focus on key labour market problems, that you deal with these important things and, above all, that you try to harmonise penalties in some proportion. Can't be the one who makes a tax evasion for 3 million euros, punished with a maximum of 50,000 euros, someone who gets it, did a dirty job or offered someone a dirty job, and pays 26 000 euros in fines for, I'll say, a minor offense that may have lasted a few hours, a job. That's not working. On the one hand, we have a lot of gray economies, financial evasions, which are the main problem of this society, all parked across foreign countries because it went through the drains. But here you are dealing with small things and tired of those people who are already having trouble getting to work, even with this bureaucratic paper search. It seems to me that these are completely depressed solutions right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u205	Thank you very much. And Mr. Joseph Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u206	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister, Mr Secretary of State! The debate on so-called values has been taking place in public for some time now. It's a new concept, and I don't know how or if it's gonna get in the way. And of course, when we are Members of Parliament at home in our sent offices, in the field from which we come, people are asking us how this is going to work. True, I often say that I am interested in how the law will work, how things work. Here I wonder how people, with whom I have experience, 81 or 92 years old, will apply this value. I think that we have too many things regulated, we are not working too hard to trust people, everything is, as we say, too regulated, except regulating ourselves. Anyone who has an idea doesn't check it in practice, in life, in everyday life, everyone wants to get it out, launch it through the law. I really want to know how the value book will be used by people who are not computer literate, who don't know the rules, who don't finally read the daily newspaper or at least often don't. I come from the countryside, and that's why I'm talking about where very good people live, those who also work in handicrafts. My colleagues, Mrs Novak and Mrs Dimic have already talked about this. I just don't understand how handiwork got under this law. Earlier, if I had listened correctly, downstairs in the office, the Secretary of State said that the solution was in hand for the handicrafts. Let's just get them a fortune teller. In this regard, I also understand domestic and artistic trade as not some kind of business, as a big profit that people can get rich with. In the first place, I understand this as some kind of Slovenian culture. That's our identity. What our handicrafts can do is an incredible fortune. I don't know if anyone in the government is talking about this, maybe Professor Dr. Janez Bogotay, who is an eminent in the hands of the handicrafts or in the ethnology, if you like. I myself know people who have made a lot of efforts, especially in northeastern Slovenia, in Verze, in the design or construction of the centre of home and art trade, where an extremely successful project was launched years ago, this is the adoption of the handiworker. How young people are impressed to be interested in handicrafting. Today, too, through the provisions of this law, I find that what has actually been found in the above-mentioned project at the DUO Centre in Verje, is that the handicrafting is an orphan to be adopted. Handicraft is an orphan to be adopted. The Youth Adoption Project was co-financed by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development: Europe invests in rural areas, and it began, as it was said, to be established with the co-workers of the DUO Centre in Verje. Known experience, especially with the desire to preserve the skills that Slovenian handball players still have, has actually summed up this potential, which has impressed many young people who have warmed up, if I may say so, for handicrafting. And I do not ask now with some administrative obstacles to limit them at their will, in motivation, because they have really shown the will to be interested in handicrafting, and I estimate that this law is poorly written to Slovenian handicrafts. Perhaps it is time for this matter to be exempted from the provisions of this law, but I do not know why we fear those who actually, as it were said, nurture Slovenian culture. How will they, say, in my village of folk singers who not only sing, but also make very beautiful flowers out of cappapir – not selling them for their own account, but for the expense of society, or distributing them. How will it be now, whether it will be sanctioned, they ask me. Of course I can't answer that. Thank you very much if you'll answer me, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Now I invite Romano Tomc to take the floor and then we will conclude the debate slowly.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u208	Thank you very much again for your word. Really long and wide we have discussed this issue, the grey economy, the prevention of the grey economy and, of course, the values that are supposed to bring something new, fresh into our labour market, and they should suddenly demand those who do not know how to work today, grow and, of course, we will have great positive effects in our pension and health treasury. And all the time that some on the other hand are alerting us to the dangers of this new system, when we point out that bureaucracy in our country is constantly spreading even with the values, of course – coalition this time or not, because some even agree with us, but the government is convinced that we do not understand things well, that we do not know what it is, that we do not know how the pension system works, in short, that we do not understand things. Similar things were heard when we accepted the real estate tax, and of course the results were as they were. A complete fiasco has been experienced by the government. The minister continues to wag his head, grabs his head and wonders how Members of Parliament can even speak such nonsense. But, Your Honor, not all nonsense. We say a lot of very weighty and thoughtful things, and of course we have said a lot of warning and good things also at the expense of the valorists, who are bureaucratic obstacles that will not bring the results that you expect, and which are designed primarily to fill up the pension and health bills a little bit. Neither I personally nor any of those with whom I have spoken do believe that that is why some, for example, pensioners who carry out housework will gloat, use this new system of yours, and I ask you why, if the only positive acquisition of the value of a day of retirement should be. A pensioner who is already retired — how many more retirements will she receive? Nothing! She's not getting anything. So that's the reason why it's gone. And of course, we are not talking about a significant departure from the other pension scheme that we have in Slovenia and that we are trying to keep in some way still within certain borders and some frameworks, so that it will not eventually fall apart. This is a derogation from the pension system, and things are not going in the direction of simplification. Look, there's a personal back-up job already. Indeed, after the work is done, someone must issue an account and, of course, report his income to the tax administration, pay the tax bill and so on. All of this will have to be done now, but before that he will have to do more – he will have to log into the system, register. However, we do not yet know exactly how the matter will take place, because the Government has not presented this to us. And while you are expecting in the government and in the coalition a profit from the introduction of the values of around 350 000 into the pension and health bills, we are in a state where today we are in charge of 28 billion, where we have only been in debt for 8 billion last year, where we have a billion and a half unearned taxes, a billion and a half. Calculate what 10% of a billion and a half is and compare them with what values will bring. And the values, if we monitor the media a little bit, are project number one, which will save this country. And as we follow up on the media today also report on the values, even outside, we see that the prime minister and the finance minister are talking in London, and it says in the title: The prime minister and the finance minister presented reforms in London. I have been asking in this Parliament for six months, which reforms this government has made. What reforms? Would someone please come to Parliament and introduce us to what someone at this very moment has introduced Cameron to the island? That's all I want. And at this time, we are talking about values when we're looking for foreign investors, when we're talking about billions, when we're talking about a billion-dollar bank hole, we're chasing households and a grey economy, but not a gray economy in the sense that you're representing it, because you're also part of a grey economy, not issuing bills and not paying taxes. And once again, as I have pointed out many times before, it is not a grey economy, it is a tax evasion and it is pursued in a different way. Instruments for persecuting this already exist. Only 5%, 5%, according to some general, gross estimate of what is actually a flaw in the state budget due to the grey economy of this type that we are persecuting by this law, is said to be because people who are not registered do not have Espeia do not have their own business, they do not pay taxes for it. But most of all, those who have their own business have their own espas, but of course I am there, or often, or they don't always issue bills. But that's a completely different story. And when you get into this story better control and functioning of the customs administration, and I don't know what else – it's nothing new. You're selling old stuff. It's nothing new. We recently passed the Financial Administration Act. That's all it says. It really bothers me that this picture of the persecution of the grey economy and of the values is not properly and fully depicted as it is, and that all of us, on the one hand, on the other hand, are showing better or worse, dark or bright salaries of this system, and, of course, now let people understand what is actually on this. But if you really look around a little bit, talk to people, ask them what they think about it, they'll probably tell you that it's one attempt at getting some money into the budget, and that no one has ever thought of giving up the way they're doing it now, even if they realize it's illegal. Because the solution to the grey economy or to the reduction of the grey economy is not in new papers, it is not in new forms of work, it is not in higher contributions, it is in higher taxes, but in reverse – in simplifications, in lower taxes, in more friendly bureaucracy, and in particular, that there must be some confidence that those taxes actually paid by people are for fair, good purposes and that these taxes do not translate into some banking systems, because these bank holes are no longer seen by the end and people have no confidence anymore. People no longer trust that their taxes are going to go to have a better education, because at the same time they are monitoring how this education works, that we will have better health care, because at the same time they see what happens in health care, that the banking system will work, because they see that we have now given 3 billion and a half to rehabilitate the banking system, but the banking system is not working. That trust in people is gone. But again, every day the government comes up with some new idea, from which piece or corner it is possible to draw another 100,000 or 200,000, not to say a million euros. And that's what the government's been doing lately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Now she wants to speak with Minister Anja Kopač Mrak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u210	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The Law on Prevention of Work and Black Employment has already been harmonised with the social partners twice. In 2011, he served another purpose of the then opposition SDS party, and then, despite the unanimous adoption of the law with the social partners, they signed, signed, signed, that the law went to the referendum. The problem was the definition of "neighbourly assistance". Of course, it was not a problem of neighbourly assistance; the problem was, above all, that there was a triple referendum and a collapse of the then government of Borut Pahor. Okay. At that time, everyone agreed that marriage was necessary. The craftsmen keep reminding us that the penalties are too low, that today someone who does not register the activity gets the penalty when they get it, EUR 208 if they pay immediately and EUR 108, and that this means unfair competition for those who are registered and in accordance with the rules performing their activities. That's why there's been a fine. But because we didn't just want to impose punishments, and because we didn't just want to strengthen control, we went to other simplifications in the law. We only see the introduction of administrative barriers. Short-term work as an exception to black work is simplified. Nobody in this Chamber in the 20-hour debate that we have because there was no agreement on the second and third hearing being held at the same time, but not because I, as Minister or Government, would like to use your time to debate on what irrelevant subject. Thus, the opposition mainly set the pace of how much and how we talk about individual solutions to this law. So, short-term work is simplification. An important novelty of this law is also that the powers to control employment are transferred in black from the CURS work inspection. It is particularly important because we know that we must not fail to know how to get a new job and that we have a lot of problems with the supervision of employers, with violations of working relationships. It is therefore likely that the inspection should be taken away from the work and that others who have a different way of working can do so are much more mobile and can respond to the problem we face. Similarly, from the market inspection at CURS, i.e. at the Customs Administration, it is also transferred to control of work in black, and indeed, penalties are being imposed, but only for legal persons is the value of 26 000, for natural persons there is about a thousand 500 maximum penalties. And 26 thousand is the penalty where, you won't believe, you get an employer to work in black, which means that a worker for whom he doesn't pay social security doesn't pay any contributions, which means that if he gets hurt in the workplace, he doesn't have any health insurance rights. This worker will retire and will not be entitled to pension insurance. No, we're hunting the wrong ones. You always manage to show only the bad side and blacken everything, including what's good. And it will always appear that 26,000 euros is too much because it is a minor offense in relation to three million or three billion or I don't know what. It's about what our value is, or whether we allow the employer to have someone working in black. Probably not, because the same employer means unfair competition to another employer who works in accordance with the rules. Not only do you care about people, but it is at least right to place employers on the same valet, so that we treat everything the same way and not support it. And at least then, in the past, in 2011, there was no problem with the law on the prevention of black work. This time I hear it's a problem. Then we set out more precisely in this law the illegal advertising of work or employment in black. Then we prescribed one interesting thing, because it's always said how inspection is and how supervisors are ineffective. We have prescribed that a worker who performs under a civil law contract – this contract must be kept by the employer or the employer all the time, because you will not believe, now it is so that he comes into control of the inspection and says to the employer or the worker that he left it at home. Of course, they cannot have this control, they can write it later or never. In short, we have tried on the basis of analyses and on the basis of a commission to prevent work and employment in black, not only the intelligence of the Ministry of Labour, but of all the institutions involved in the country, to introduce these additions. The only thing that's really new, the only thing that's different, is the personal complementary work that's already possible, and even now, people doing personal complementary work have to register on the administrative unit. Well, it's not true that registration is not necessary today. Today, if you want to carry out a legal form of work, you have to go to the administrative unit and sign the form there, that's right. And now you have to report your income to Durs for three months. No, even more so, with February 1st, it has been adopted that contributions must also be paid from every form of work where no personal supplementary work is taken. If it's not an administrative obstacle! And you're putting yourself on the story of the valedictorian who broke. Pavšal, so that he is administratively least burdensome. Okay, let's do it in a row. You're saying you don't know how the process is going to proceed. Very clear. The procedure will be very clear. In the Slovenian People's Party, they said they did not support the law because the procedure was unclear. Let me explain. A person who does personal extra work is any natural person, so I can be employed, I can be unemployed, I can be retired, I can have different statuses. I sign up - today I have to go to the administrative unit, now I'm going to be on Ipes, the difference is that Ipes now has to publish this list publicly. For now I, as the contracting authority of the personal supplemental work, do not know whether a person has actually applied for personal supplemental work and therefore I can be the accomplice to work in black because I do not even know. That is the way it is now that I can now get this new currency, and only I, as a contracting entity, pay before that, can go online, but I can go to the administrative unit. So we knew that all people didn't have computers, that not everyone, if I said so, was strong enough in this direction, so we gave an opportunity in the administrative unit. You can pay online with your credit card, and that's what Durs and I managed to arrange, in any way, and then you print this and you do yours. Do it once a month. And then this person who can or will clean you up – these works are limited by the rulebook and there is also a limited income that this person can derive from this. It's the same now. So, once a month, you joke, pay 9 euros. And now this valor -- you say it's a paper that doesn't serve anyone, and then you expose the pensioner because she's already retired. But forget about the unemployed who do it to survive, and that is the fact. I am aware of this, and that is why we wanted to give these people some encouragement, because today these people have nothing to report for personal supplemental work. Therefore, there is no leverage, and since we did not just want to punish them, we wanted to enable them, on the other hand, to pay for these parts and pay them – one is a day of retirement. And on the basis of the values paid is calculated for persons who do not otherwise pay, the pension base, and this is absolutely nothing in contravention of the parental law, with the STIZ. So, this is harmonised, and the PIZ already has a basis for personal information calculations and has – it has already been a press release on this topic, how citizens can look at paid contributions. And one unemployed person, who will be paid 9 euros by the contracting authority, will go to its pension account for 7 euros. One day of retirement, this unemployed person, who is waiting for retirement, who, by the way, with the pension reform that you have adopted, especially for women, will extend the pension period overnight for, please, 11 months. These women will probably have one day of retirement, and if they do this for more time, what it means. That was the logic of the proposal. Not by screwing with people, doing unnecessary administrative obstacles, but by encouraging people to report it. And the other thing, perhaps even more important, is that for the two euros that are paid, these people are insured in case of injury at work. An unemployed person, if he is doing personal work today and is doing something to him in our apartment, has no insurance in case of injury at work. Personally, I think this is right, and that not saying that it is just some administrative burden on people on the one hand and on the other hand charging cash registers. People will get the right from this address. Indeed, those who are already retired – for them it is important that they are insured in case of injury at work, and I believe that our pension system is based on intergenerational solidarity, this is the basis of this system of ours, and that one of the pensioners who works, and not himself, will pay, but his subscriber and will ensure that intergenerational solidarity is the basis of our pension system still the essence of this. And that's all it is. Maybe that's what's important. As Minister of Labour, I have never claimed that we will solve the problem of unemployment with a valuer to solve the problem of the Slovenian labour market in order to solve the problem of the grey economy. Absolutely not! The government, for the first time, has put in place a comprehensive programme to address the grey economy, and the grey economy is 93% after Surs’s default on payments and evasion. And it's addressed by other laws. This law before you prevents only work and employment in black, which is a small stone in the mosaic of the grey economy, just that, and this is the function of this law, nothing more. And just because we didn't want to just punish people, we gave the opportunity because we are aware that the most black work is going on in our homes, where inspection will never have enough effective resources, and because we didn't want people to hunt in this country, we wanted to give encouragement. And that's why it doesn't pay this value because we realize that it's people who don't usually have a choice, because it's for their survival. That's why we gave this sheepdog, and this wolf bearer pays a customer who's in a better financial position than the one who executes. That's why we separated, and that's why some of you objected. That was the logic. It's possible that people don't see it that way, that you, I believe, see it differently, but our purpose was that. I'm sorry if he's not reached. In the bill you have a calculation for 3,000 people who are supposed to report personal supplementary work, and financial estimates are made for only 3,000. Already in the first year, so for 3,000, the financial rating is around 300,000 euros, and the fact is that the establishment of a system, which is one-off, will cost about 190,000 euros. But it's important that we agree on this system, because that you can pay via e-government or online this voucher to Durs-Durs! Because people have nothing to do with it! Durs will distribute these contributions to the PIZ and the Health Department. And this is also important for the further payment of contributions to the state. I know I can't convince the surest, but it seems to me that the topic that could connect us, where we could see that we are working, and at the administrative least possible burden, you are implying that we are burdening citizens. I hear we're strengthening red tape. Yeah, Ipes is going to add that thing, he's already running this thing for business, and he's going to add another piece of information. And at the same time Durs is dividing these tides and he's going to do it for it. Indeed, personal supplementary work will not save Slovenia, it will not save our unemployment, but it may motivate someone to apply, because it will result in 1, 2, 3, 5, 10 paid pension days and will have contributions to health insurance paid. I hope that was the purpose of this marriage and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u211	Thank you very much. All the debaters you wanted the word have received it, but the time set for the debate has not yet expired, so I ask if anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. If the government wants it, please order it. I do not see any desire for a debate, which means that I can conclude the debate on the proposal for a law in its entirety. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. The National Assembly will decide on the draft law in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly in half an hour in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 24th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 5:15, 15 minutes in five. See you later.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u212	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Please check the operation of the voting devices. We continue with the termination of item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excise in the framework of the urgent procedure We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled by 23. 4. 2014, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 3. In doing so, it is noted that if this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the same proposer to Article 9 becomes irrelevant. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u213	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose not to raise excise duties on cigarettes, and we also propose that the status of those involved should not change for biofuels, which means that those involved should receive a refund of another part of the excise duty. There's a reason for that. According to 2012 sales of excise or tobacco products decreased by 17 %, by 6 % in 2014 to 2013, according to available data, to date, which means that sales of excise goods, cigarettes and other tobacco products are falling. As consumption falls, on the other hand, consumption does not decrease, meaning that they come into the country of cigarettes and other tobacco products so that they are not actually paid excise duty because excise duty is not paid in the Slovenian budget, it is paid in another budget, it can be Croatian, it can be Montenegrin, Bosnian, it can be any other budget, or it can not be paid if it is a black market. The increase in excise duties on tobacco products will in fact mean that sales will be even smaller, meaning that we will receive even less money in the Slovenian budget, less revenue. And the estimates presented by the Ministry of Finance or the Government to get $14 million in 2014 do not in fact hold. And because they do not hold, manna will appear because non-competitive products or prices are uncompetitive, especially in relation to Croatia. For this reason, we propose not to increase excise duty, and certainly also hold to what has been said that so far every government has increased these excise duties, but the economic and financial situation today is such that Slovenia will not be competitive here. As a result, it will start to lose and start to lose, even in 2013, even in 2014, the revenue of the state budget due to too much excise duty on tobacco products and fuels. For this reason, we propose that excise duties should not be increased to remain the way they are, as this will result in higher revenues to the state budget, thus encouraging the black market with tobacco products and encouraging these products to be bought in other countries.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u214	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We are voting on the amendment of Article 3 of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 44. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 7. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 46. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 3 has not been adopted, the amendment of the same proposer to Article 9 is irrelevant. This concludes the vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Can we make a decision? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u215	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we find that our amendment has not been adopted. This is an amendment that would, above all, contribute to preventing excise duty from being increased so that the price would not increase, that people would not be more burdened and that the country would receive more revenue from the state budget. This law is proposed to be adopted following an emergency procedure. We believe that the whole matter and the whole excise policy are under-examined. This will cause damage to the country. This will not be about any legal uncertainty as was the case with the Real Estate Tax Act. Here it will simply be that this tax, these excise duties will not be financially effective and will not contribute to Slovenia becoming also an economically interesting country for the purchase of various excise products, of which it can actually have the most Slovenian budget. Moreover, even those who may be buying excise goods in Slovenia buying tobacco products in Slovenia today, I am thinking mainly of Austrians, of small-border traffic, because of the increase in the price of cigarettes in Slovenia and because these prices will come closer to Austria, will leave this purchase, which means that there will be a further reduction in revenue in the state budget. This is bad for Slovenia. This means that if there is no cut at the expense, what the government of Alenka Bratušek does not want to do, there will be a greater deficit. As there will be a greater deficit, there is likely to be an increase in debt, which is already close to €30 billion today. This is a poorly managed policy, a poorly managed excise policy, a poorly managed financial policy and a poorly managed competition policy. Since this law was proposed because the Real Estate Tax Act fell at the Constitutional Court, it will not, of course, show the results that it is intended to compensate for the loss of financial revenues under the Real Estate Tax Act. This, of course, means further agony, means further crisis, means a reduction in private consumption, means a consequent reduction in public consumption, means higher costs, especially when we are talking about fuels, for businesses, and, of course, means additional cost pressure and a lower competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. Slovenia will not get away with such a policy, such a financial or economic policy, and this government will not do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u216	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u217	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The Novel of the Law on excise duties is the realization of Mrs Alenka Bratušek's forecast when the Law on real estate tax fell in the Constitutional Court. It was March 28th this year, and then the Prime Minister said something like this: that the government has many possible solutions, and these will be more painful and less just for citizens. And that's true. With this novel of the Treasury Law, the government of Alenka Bratušek realizes the announcement of the prime minister. No one at the Ministry of Finance, nor at the Government, has given any thought to the economy of the transit state of Slovenia. The transit state of Slovenia could benefit from an important geostrategic position, but now it has only damage; transit traffic, heavy trucks destroy our motorways, negatively affect our health and so on. Neither does the government undertake savings, nor does the cost part of the budget. This would be absolutely necessary, and the Government said at the beginning of the mandate – that it will stabilise public finances by measures, by two thirds of the measures on the expenditure side and by one third of the measures on the revenue side. That's not what the government's holding on to either. Some coalition February predicted that there would be no new taxes this year and no increases in existing taxes. That's not true either. This was also broken by the coalition's party February. This novel of the Law on Excise is actually a tax on the incompetence of the government of Alenka Bratušek. And despite the fact that this is a tax on the incapacity of the government of Alenka Bratušek, Nova Slovenija will not support it or more precisely, it will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u218	Thank you. Can we make a decision? It is an interest to explain the voice, but first I ask if interest is on behalf of the groups. I propose that you apply for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mrs Jasmina Opec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u219	Thank you so much for saying that. Even if we are not smokers, increased excise duties will affect everyone in this country. When we get to the gas station or when we have a bottle of beer, we will have to contribute more from our pockets to the state budget. However, a significant number of citizens will be burdened by fuelling in neighbouring countries, buying alcohol, cigarettes in neighbouring countries, and the state budget will have absolutely nothing to do with this. From transit transport, which could contribute millions of euros to the state budget, we will not get a cent. It will be followed only by destroyed roads, which we will have to patch up again and correct our citizens from our pockets, from the state budget. Instead of taking measures in this country that would increase the quality of the stay, measures that would in the least painful way bring inflows to the state budget, which is certainly the benefits of transit transport are, here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia we take measures that increase inflows to the state budget of neighbouring Austria, Croatia and any other countries. The sense and normality of doing so should be judged by everyone. We will not support the proposed novel in the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u220	Thank you. I invite you to apply for explanations of vote because you have been notified in your personal name. Mrs. Masha Kociper has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u221	Unlike the opposition that has debated and debated all day today about what they would do and what would be better if it were different, I will, of course, vote for the law as a representative of the coalition. For unlike the opposition that can speak in vain, the coalition must take responsibility and find measures to patch up the hole that was created in the budget after the collapse of the real estate law. And I can't be surprised at all those who are constantly calling for systemic solutions, for systemic changes, for reforms, but at the same time you hugged the Constitutional Court and toasted the champagne when the essential system law fell that would solve these problems. Therefore, those who, at the time of the collapse of the key fiscal law, will now take responsibility for these solutions, which are why we need to take measures today, which you think are less just and less appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u222	Thank you. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u223	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, I will not support this marriage for a number of reasons. If someone estimates that a new tax is a reform, then I really wonder what Parliament I'm sitting in. If the new tax is a reform. I will not support this law because it is a new tax, a new tax, and it has always brought nothing else into the National Assembly as a new tax, a tax and so on. With the Law on excise duties, we will recharge everyone in this country, pensioners with 300 euros, socially disadvantaged people, employees with 500 euros of minimum wages, entrepreneurs, craftsmen, generally complete economy, and if anyone imagines that we will save Slovenia from this problematic situation in such a way that we will additionally burden the Slovenian economy, which is the only one who can lead this country to better solutions, then it is deeply wrong. Because this law is a tax, a new tax, I do not intend to support it in any way, because I am convinced that it is imperative to adopt different solutions that will help breathe out the Slovenian economy, but not solutions that further burden the most vulnerable groups in this country and further destroy the Slovenian economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u224	Thank you. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u225	Good-bye! I won't support it myself. Sometimes it's really hard for a man in the opposition to speak one word, but when he gets to power, he does another. A little over a year ago, you promised to drain honey and milk to raise economic growth in order to reduce unemployment, in short, so that the country would flourish. And in a year, you raised more than 10 taxes, you owed the country 8 billion, and you spoke empty in the opposition, and you're still working in the government. There's nothing from the start of the economy, crafts, from self-sustainment. The excise duty is not only to refuse, rather than to attract and exploit the geostrategic position of Slovenia, as Luxembourg does. For comparison only, there is about a euro and a half of gas when we pay for a litre of petrol, about one euro in excise duty, margin and VAT. As you increase excise duties, the tax, the tax, the tax, the tax, the tax, the tax, the tax, the tax, the tax, the tax, the tax, the tax, the tax, the tax, the tax, the tax, the tax, the tax, the tax, the tax. The only solution that is still in this country today, and you will not believe it, is Zoran Jankovic, who also does not believe the government of Alenka Bratušek, who himself said that it has made its own business, and I hope that on Friday the government of Alenka Bratušek will fall before this law enters into force.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u226	Thank you. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I hope today, during the debate, that at least theoretically explain and also with real results show what the incorrect excise policy meant in the last year of the government of Alenka Bratušek. The excise market in Slovenia is a billion 490 million euros, just so you know what you're playing with here today. Last year, we lost 70 million Euros of taxpayer money, i.e. the money we would have received in the budget and could have been spent by taxpayers for other purposes, due to an irregular excise policy. Let me just add: we got less €50 million in the fuel budget and less €13 million in cigarette products. All this loss is on the account of strangers who have left less money here. Slovenian taxpayers, or those who smoke, and those who use fuels, unfortunately in reduced purchasing power, decided mainly on tobacco products for so-called substitutes, decided on fine-cut tobacco, which so far had a lower excise duty. The following story, followed by an incorrect excise policy, has been a remarkable rise in the black market of cigarettes in the last year. And something else that happened. In the first two months of this year, and the trend is even more catastrophic, we have collected 5.5 million euros less from cigarettes alone. So, respectable fellows, look, you can't put your property tax losses in such a ball. First, you need to reduce this bullet, and you need to reduce, respected colleagues and colleagues, public spending. You need to reduce the bullet so you can get this bullet into a big ball. It's pure math. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u228	Thank you. Mr. Andrey Chus has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u229	Your Honor! First, I would like to ask you where the so-called measures are on the expenditure side of the budget. A few weeks ago, a representative of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette spoke about demanding that measures be also presented on the expenditure side of the budget, but amendments to the Law on excise duties are certainly not. Today, we are indebted to the rate of one million euros per hour. But, Your Honor, given the number of grey heads, with all due respect, in the government coalition of Alenka Bratusek, I'm not surprised that you're worried about this, because you're thinking: It's important that we sort of get it over with now, and then the others will be dealing with it. And I think it's a very immoral act. A measure such as the amendment of the Law on excise duty, i.e. the raising of excise duties, is a measure that is not long-term and is simply a robbery of the Slovenian people. And once again, I ask you, dear Government: where are the measures on the spending side? Not one of the things that has been said about this, including the National Reform Programme, has I heard any action about where we are going to go about reforming the public administration, where we are going to do, I don't know, clearing the pension register, not to speak further. And again, I think the government of Alenka Bratušek is hitting on the people of the Republic of Slovenia and the economy. And of course I can't accept that. I think today is the last time that we all start to realize that Slovenian policy needs to listen more to those who create added value in Slovenian society to the economy. As long as we don't, I won't be surprised that we're sinking and that we're before the collapse.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u230	Thank you. Before I give the word forward, I would just like to point out that in your explanation of vote, do not ask the Government, because it cannot answer, nor are the debates allowed, because it is not possible to give answers to these debates. It is also an interest to explain your vote and I suggest you sign up. Before giving the floor to Mr Žnidar, he wanted to make a procedural proposal to Mr Srečko Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u231	Mr President, I have not heard how Mr Chus is going to vote. In fact, he merely insulted the grey heads who had made decisions by conscience and because some other heads with the Constitutional Court had prevented a fair tax, where those who had more property would also pay more. [[advertising from the hall]] This is also a reflection of the culture that we hear here in the National Assembly, where everyone has the right to speak. And, Mr President, I really ask that we stick to the agenda item so that you do not allow individuals to be offended, especially because those who are insulting today have prevented the adoption of the law through the Constitutional Court and today we citizens and citizens of Slovenia, if we say so, have been burdened with those missing funds that we have not received with the property tax. I find it unacceptable to discuss this in the National Assembly because I am proud of my gray hair. I have heard many young men in the past, and I have also taken them through various periods; I believe that this is a difficult time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u232	Thank you. I think we can only join this warning to respect the meaning of the explanation of vote. Mr. Žnidar, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u233	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! I'm not going to support the Excise Act alone. I will not support it because it increases the duty on certain excise goods from a considerable amount. However, the Treasury Act is an arrogant response of the government to the collapse of the real estate law. As a result, this law is incomplete, reckless and will not contribute to what is essentially meant to be a purpose, this is a real revenue in the state budget. If the prices of these products are too high, this cash flow, instead of spilling into the state budget, will go to the black market both at home, in the Slovenian field and in neighbouring countries where these products are more cost-effective. It is said that his purpose will not be achieved by the Law on Excise. It will increase the grey economy and result in reduced revenues to the budget. Of course, such a marriage cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u234	Thank you. Can we make a decision? More explanation for the voice in your own name, mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u235	Thank you very much. I will not support this marriage. I will not support it because it will bring great damage, damage in the financial and economic fields to the country, because there will be no more revenue. And this law was essentially prepared to replace the Real Estate Tax Act, which was declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court. And it is this law that replaces these revenues because the National Assembly must respect the decision of the Constitutional Court. And it is right that the Constitutional Court is the highest body that can also decide whether the National Assembly has adopted such legislation as is contrary to the Constitution. And the Real Estate Tax Act, which this coalition has adopted and instead of which we are now enforcing the Treasury Act, was contrary to this legislation, even though the opposition has consistently pointed out that the law is wrong, unfair, harmful. In short, if we are talking about liability, then responsibility for this law and the Property Tax Act must be sought from those who voted in favour of the property tax and who will vote in favour of the excise tax today. Responsibility is on their side. However, the Constitutional Court is untouchable in this direction, untouchable. It is the responsibility of those who propose the law, who adopt it and vote for it. And it is very dangerous for some to say then that the Constitutional Court is in any way in this direction. In history, this was [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u236	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 33. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments to the Law on War veterans in the context of the shorter procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 22. 4. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 1. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, Mr Štefan Tisel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u237	Good bye to all of you! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have tabled an amendment to Article 1 and we will also support or vote in favour of this amendment. This article discusses companies acting in the public interest, such as the veteran society or the association of veteran societies, and is financed by public funds. Thus, society or association can contract with the Minister, this time with the Minister of Defence, to finance the activities of these patriotic societies that nurture tradition, nurture patriotism and are both veterans and non-veterans. In particular, we have societies from a half-life, such as the self-sustaining war, as well as from the NOB, but we also have Rudolf Maister, who has nurtured the tradition of our grandfathers who have fought for the northern border, the Korean fighters and the like, where there has been no veteran for several years. Here we propose that the number of members of society also influence the level of funds, not just the number of veterans provided for the operation of society. Secondly, what we also have a comment on is that one of the criteria would also be the activity or programmes that have been implemented over the past years and also financed by public funds. That is why we will support this amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u238	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 33 votes against 45. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 4. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Stefan Tessel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u239	Thank you for your word. In Article 4, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group tabled an amendment already tabled on the Committee, but it is the beginning of the application of this law. The validity is immediate and the law should only apply once the economic growth exceeds 2.5% of the gross social product. We know that this is somewhere in the far future, but we cannot possibly promise that this government will achieve such growth so that, during the course of this government's operation, veterans can get this extension of rights. It is the payment of supplementary health insurance, which is now only under social threat or which is recognised as a protective supplement, while others now do not have the right to payment of supplementary health insurance. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that the right should enter into force immediately if it is a serious objective, because when the economic growth is 2.5%, this law or condition could also be adopted. So it's in stock, it gives some false hope to veterans, but at the same time it's misleading the public. So, I propose that it enters into force immediately or that we set a time limit for this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u240	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 47. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. This concludes the vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Can we make a decision? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Stefan Tessel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u241	Thanks again for saying that. As this amendment, which would allow veterans to extend these rights immediately or even during this government, has not been adopted, we will not support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, but of course we will not vote against it, because it is offered in some future, which is being sanctified somewhere, that this right will still be guaranteed to veterans. Otherwise we all hope that as soon as possible, but unfortunately not yet in sight. We will not vote in favour and we will not object. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u242	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 57 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Procedure for Recognition of Professional Qualifications for Citizens of the Member States of the European Union, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation for the Conduct of Regulatory Occupations or Activities in the Republic of Slovenia in the framework of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the draft law on prevention of work and employment in black. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to amendments adopted in the second reading at the home work body and at the meeting of the National Assembly, the proposal for a law would be inconsistent. Can we make a decision? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u243	In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will oppose this law because we think it is pointless. In other words, it has certain provisions that go in the right direction, but, in general, it does not deserve the support of these solutions, in its entirety, in particular the regulation of personal complementary work. This is a completely wrong approach. The government with valuations, i.e. by additional burdens of personal complementary work and additional bureaucratic tasks, because each contracting entity will have to buy these securities somewhere, thinks that because of these obstacles, this is due to financial and bureaucratic obstacles, more registered, legal performance of the personal complementary work. Your Honor! Not only experience, common sense also tells us that someone is burdened with taxes and bureaucratic activities, that this is only the reason that these activities are more carried out illegally than legally. In fact, any additional burden is an obstacle or an obstacle to more registered activities. On the contrary, I believe that there will be more employment or black work of this kind and that it will also be impossible to control this work. Instead of burdening the government with all its burdens, it is burdening it, and it is very unsettling, with some unscrupulous measures. In fact, it wants to fill the pension and health allowance with the values, and the persons for whom this contribution will be paid will not, in fact, have any of this and this is in conflict with the system's pension insurance legislation. We and the Pension and Disability Insurance Act wanted the link between the contributions paid and the rights resulting from this to be as large as possible. Now, however, contributions for personal supplementary work will be paid for someone, and of this he will have no higher pension, since this income is not included in the pension base and, of course, it is simply a charge. This is a bad solution, a harmful solution, and in the Slovenian Democratic Party, of course, we will not impose and oppose it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u244	Thank you. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u245	Thank you, Mr. President. Members of New Slovenia We will not support the draft law on prevention of work and employment in black. We will vote against it. The law introduces a new concept: a valuation. Even before the vote, we received e-mails, e-mails from citizens and citizens calling on Members to make wise decisions. And when I go to the Dictionary of the Slovenian Book Language, what is the value of the value: a note with a nominal value for the payment of services. Really? Really? List for payment of services. Yeah, that's not true. So, one more confusion, one more reason to reject this law. We did not get any answers regarding the handicrafts, this culture, Slovenian culture. In fact, handicrafting now remains an even more orphan, which needs to be adopted or, rather, won. I'm also talking to an official at the ZPIZ who doesn't know where she's going to book that one day of retirement based on a valuation. So, the big mess is in the public eye, there's no clear definition. This will not be a prevention; this law will not prevent black work and employment, so it does not deserve our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u246	Thank you. Can we make a decision? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, Mr Jakob Preseknik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u247	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I'll be brief. I have previously stressed in the position of the Group of Members that I fear that this value will happen in the same way as that of those famous transporters for the transport of timber from the forest to the first buyer. I'm sure that's gonna happen. For this reason, I do not think that we can vote for this law, and the matter must, of course, be settled in a different way. I also say that, unfortunately, since it is necessary to limit the grey economy, it is necessary to limit work to black, but we will have more problems with this measure than will the benefits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u248	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present and 42 votes against 33. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the first item of the agenda, this is the question of Members and Members Under point 1, in accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Romane Tomc, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of Mags. Alenka Bratušek asked Romane Tomc about measures to ensure the objectives and implementation of commitments in strategic documents. Can we make a decision? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Romana Tomc asked the President of the Government a question you have read, and there was no appropriate, appropriate answer to that question in two attempts. Indeed, the National Reform Programme has some objectives. At least two can be mentioned; one is an additional 60, 70 thousand jobs, the other is the privatisation of the economy. You've written down your goals to sell companies, and nothing is going on in this area. Many areas need structural changes, need reforms, and there is no minister for those who need it, such as in the area of health, where we now have a fourth Minister of Health in one year and do not expect any reforms to take place in this area. We have a poorly functioning, so far, banking system, because bad claims are not consistently transferred to the Banks Claims Management Company, and we face the consequences both in the Banks Claims Management Company and in the banks themselves. Actually, there are no other things going on. Today, the Prime Minister of the Government visited England and yesterday in the National Assembly was unable to provide any reply on more detailed measures to achieve the objectives of the National Reform Programme. Today we are reading large headlines as explained to Mr Cameron, Prime Minister of England. In short, reform is not on the government agenda. International institutions also note that what is happening to economic growth is because economic growth is happening in the neighbourhood and key partners of Slovenia. So we are led by a neighbourhood train, and in no way does this economic growth depend on the measures the Government is expected to take in this period. Reforms only take place in the field of citizens' and economic burdens. Higher taxes, additional burdens, including new taxes, are coming, and another measure is, in fact, very exploited, an abnormal debt for the needs of the state. In short, there were no replies from the President of the Government, so I suggest you support the proposal for a discussion on the response of the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u250	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 45. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under point 2, in accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Franz Bogovic, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of Mags. Alenka Bratušek to the question of the Member State's support for the small economy and public investment projects. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 46. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under point 3, in accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Iva Dimic, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of Mags. Alenka Bratušek asked Iva Dimic about the resolution of the problem of social security and the economic situation of citizens. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 46. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under point 4, in accordance with the proposal of the MEP, mag. Andrej Visiak will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Cufer, to the question of mags. Mr Andrej Visiak related to the State Disbursement Plan. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 46. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under point 5, in accordance with the proposal of Mr Tanka, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Čufer, to the question of Mr Tanka's delegation regarding the use of budgetary money. Can we make a decision? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u251	Thank you so much for saying that. What he has enjoyed in response to the question of the letter, Minister Chufer, goes beyond the limits of good taste. In the two minutes that he took it, he didn't answer anything completely, in fact, he ignored the question. The question was, in one year, the state budget owed 8 billion euros, that is to say one year's budget. And in this period, both the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the coalition failed to provide a few ten million euros not for investment, for example, in hospital infrastructure, for example, in the emergency block of the clinical centre, not in the development axis. Moreover, the Government has not been able to provide even €35 million of the partner share to launch cohesion projects related to 11 water supply areas. The EUR 35 million represents essentially, given the extent of the debt of a quarter of all the funds hired, and the government has not been able to ensure that. In doing so, it should be borne in mind that only through VAT collection would it collect 10 million more than it would invest, and at least 30 million euros more through taxes and wage contributions and so on. In short, even for projects that are obviously also positive for the state budget, the government does not provide the share and facilitate investment. The only money the government will ever find, and in enormous amounts, is the means of waving a bank hole. 3.5 billion have already been invested, for more than a billion euros, in two private banks there were guarantees, previously 200 million cash, and now the government will find 160 million euros for the rehabilitation of the Celje bank, but it will not find, say, 20 million for the emergency, it will not find 35 million euros for water projects and so on. It is said that there is some government action that has no basis in the plans or that there is no basis for what it has done and where it has allocated it. All he does is simply service the banking sector, so that no one in this banking sector is responsible for any decision that has been taken. But it was a lot of bad things, and that's why the banking system was designed. I propose that we hold a debate on the Minister's failure to respond. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u252	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 46. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under point 6, in accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Ljub Žnidar, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Defence Roman Jakič to the question by Mr Žnidar on airlocks. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u253	Your Honor! I asked Mr Jakić, Minister for Defence, what is the increasing amount of airspace closure over the Republic of Slovenia in this year compared to the previous years. Of course, this is doing considerable damage to the economy, both to our airports, which are with a considerable share of the revenues from this title and, of course, a significant share of our tourism. Tourism is the economic sector where the world’s largest money turns, and also in Slovenia tourist workers fight for every tourist euro. In coordinating the prison, the airmen, called the Ministry of Defence, did not comply with civil aviation in the Republic of Slovenia. As a result of this, it is also an issue and a bad will on their part, as the civilian part of aviation in our country should be included in the working group to decide and participate in the closure of air traffic. This is not the case, and I do not know what the situation in the military area is, that there is a need for such a sensitive, increased airspace. Since this is a significant part of the various factors that cause damage to the economy at several levels, I propose that a public debate be held on this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u254	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 43. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under point 7, according to the proposal of Ambassador Eva Irgl, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of the Interior, Dr. Gregor Virant, to the question of Eve Irgl, on the implementation of the Law on the coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Slovenia, and on the Slovenian national flag, symbols of Slovenian statehood and the recall of totalitarian symbols. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 44. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under point 8, in accordance with the proposal of Mr Jerovška, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr Anje Kopač Mrak to the question of Mr Jerovška's delegation regarding current initiatives and developments regarding the reconciliation project. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 44. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under point 9, in line with Ambassador Alenka Jeraj's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for Dr Anje Kopač Dark to the question of the delegation of Alenka Jeraj regarding child allowances. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mrs Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u255	Thank you so much for saying that. I asked Dr. Anjo Kopač Dark about the children's allowance and the right to a scholarship. In fact, they are turning to me, but I suppose they are, too, because she said so, also to the Ministry, the people who have applied for the scholarship and who have thus reduced their children's allowance. No one alerts them to this and then finds out for themselves what is wrong with them and why they suddenly have a lower child’s allowance. Then it is not even possible to cancel these applications and remain in the lower child allowance, otherwise with a scholarship, which is often lower than the child supplement that they received for their school-bound child by then. I estimate that the debate on this would certainly bring any further answers, or perhaps the Minister would have been better acquainted with this issue, because it was unclear whether or not she knew it or said that it was not such a problem. I assess that it is, and therefore I propose that we hold a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u256	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 45. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under point 10, in accordance with the proposal of Mr Vinko Gorenak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of Mr Senko Plitčanič to the question of Mr Vinko Gorenak on the implementation of the previous and current coalition agreement in the field of justice. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 46. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under point 11, in accordance with the proposal proposed by Ambassador Jožet Tanka, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment of Magi. The de facto Jew to Jože Tank's question about the fines. Can we make a decision? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u257	Thank you so much for saying that. From the area covered by Minister Židan, that is, agriculture and the environment, in the draft laws coming into the National Assembly, chapter of the Penal Code specifically emerges. For minor misdemeanors, such as the fact that you do not have a carrier with you or that you have not even reported a crop, the penalties are extremely high. For vehicles, for example, if you don't have a carriage and drive a few cubic trees worth 100 euros in total, it could be between 5,000 euros and 50,000 euros. In the event that you do not report the crop of grapes, wine or must, there is a fine of up to EUR 6 000 500 for small vine growers, which in fact means just as many litres of wine in the natural part. Almost no small vineyard produced more than 6,000 gallons [6,000 L] of wine. Similarly, in the proposed Nature Conservation Act, where, in fact, for a minor offence of parking a vehicle outside the five-metre zone, it is said in the area of protection, it imposes a fine of between EUR 5 and EUR 10 000 and as an additional measure it can also take away vehicles. These penalties are indeed extremely high, especially when we compare these penalties with those in the Tax Procedure Act, where special serious tax offences involving tax evasion are, in fact, subject to the same penalties. For someone who is tax-absorbing, more than EUR 5,000, a penalty of no more than 20% of the tax recovered may be imposed, but the minimum penalty is EUR 200. It is said that it cannot be less and cannot be higher than EUR 50 000, which means that the tax evasion is subject to a criminal cap. And when we compare these apparent battles against black wood cuttings and wood harvesting or tax evasion, we cannot go beyond the fact that those who get it to hide EUR 3 million pay EUR 50 000, and those who get it to drive the goods without the carrier can even have it, but they don't have it, and they also pay the penalty of EUR 50 000. I propose that, for many other reasons, we hold a debate in the National Assembly on this issue as regards the definition of criminal provisions in agriculture, which is particularly threatened by the sector, because this part can also have a fatal impact on whether someone else will have the property when this penalty is pronounced or will no longer have the property. In short, these are disproportionate interventions, disproportionate penalties compared to the offence committed.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u258	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 45. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under point 12, in accordance with the proposal of Mr Krivec, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment of Magi. Dejan jedan to Daniel Krivec's question regarding the resolution of the post-shock reconstruction in Sokoc 2004. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 45. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under point 13, in accordance with the proposal of Mr Dragutin Mate, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment of Magi. The de facto Jewish question on the question of Dragutin Matey concerning measures in the field of agriculture. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 46. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under point 14, in accordance with the proposal of the MEP, mag. Andrej Visiak will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Economic Development and Technology Method Draganje to the question of mags. Andrej Visiak in connection with the announced reduction in the number of employees in the Ministry. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 46. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under point 15, in accordance with the proposal of Mr Pojbič, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister for Economic Development and Technology Method of Draganje to the question of Mr Pojbič's mission concerning the increase in excise duties on fuel fuels. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u259	Thank you, Mr. President. I think that this is an extremely important issue or even one of the most important issues in the state of the country. We all know exactly what the economic situation is like in our country, and we are all aware, I am sure, in this national assembly, except those who adopt such laws that add to the burden of the economy. That is why I have also proposed that the issue I have raised with Minister Dragonja be addressed in a broader way, because I am sure that the new pressures on the economy do not have a place in our country, and even less so that the policy takes such decisions. And it is the law that we have adopted today, this is the Law on Excise, which has the effect of raising excise duties on propulsion fuels, and this is, of course, an absolute additional pressure on the economy. I cannot believe that someone in this country can afford such a difficult economic and financial and social crisis to further burden the economy, which is the only one that can get this country out of this critical situation. Without providing better conditions for the development of the economy and without further burdening the economy, we have no opportunity to reach new jobs, we have no opportunity to reach the money that will flow into all three cash registers, health, state budget and pension bills. And if we do not think in this direction to do everything we can to create the conditions for the economy to develop, but not to impose additional burdens on it with new taxes, we do not have the opportunity to expect better and better solutions for the Slovenian people for such a long time. That is why I have also proposed that we have a broader hearing in the National Assembly on this issue, which is still related to the Slovenian economy and the pressure on the Slovenian economy. I think that there is no one in this national assembly who would not vote for this, unless he really cares what happens to the Slovenian economy and what happens to the Slovenian state. I am convinced that with the measures that this government is now taking, it is a graver of the Slovenian economy and is also a graver of the future of young Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u260	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 45. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under point 16, in accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Robert Hroat, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment of Magi. On Robert Hroat's question on plant protection products. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 46. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under point 17, in accordance with the proposal of Mr Franz Breznik, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment of Magi. Dejana Židana to the question of Franz Breznik regarding the project The comprehensive supply of northeastern Slovenia with drinking water – the northwestern Slovenian mountain. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u261	Mr President, thank you for saying so. So, let me give you a little bit of an explanation. It was a project that was completed in the first phase. It is a comprehensive supply of drinking water from northeast Slovenia. This project has two phases. The first stage goes through the Municipality of Duplek, Hoče-Slivnica and goes through all Slovene municipalities, including Šentilj, then the Municipality of Sveti Jurij, Cerkvenjak, Benedikt to Gornja Radgone. This project was successfully completed last year. The project was financed in 59% by cohesion funds, 27% by municipalities from municipal budgets and 14% by the state. Unfortunately, there was an abnormal situation during the time of Minister of the Jews. The project was not paid by the Ministry of Agriculture. So no situation on the part of the Ministry of Agriculture has been paid so far, not until today. The project was closed last year. As a result of paying these small subcontractors who worked on the project, municipalities leased short-term loans to Slovenian banks. So they've got the extra costs again, and Minister Jeddan didn't know how to answer yesterday. He talked about having money, but he couldn't answer why no situation had been paid for the project during his term of office. I drew attention to the custodian of the treaty, who acted extremely recklessly, and I believe that in the broader debate we will be able to pour clean wine, especially in the phase why the state of situations that are clear in many projects, why the ministry does not pay, why the state is a poor payer, why it avoids payment, how we as representatives of an institution or ministers should tell others to be payers, and they themselves in their own ministry do not fully implement this for clear situations, for clear projects and for clear and, I can say, extremely good objectives, such as quality drinking water supply, especially in the Slovenian Mountains, Gornje Radgone and the municipalities of Hoče-Slivica and Duplek. So I would ask for support in this initiative to have a public debate on this issue, because I think it is not only this topic, but it is a whole range of those in whom the country is extremely poor and acts extremely and extremely recklessly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u262	Thank you, too. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 46. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under point 18, in accordance with the proposal of Member Zvonk Laha, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment of Magi. The de facto Jew to the question of the Lach Bell in connection with water supply. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 46. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under point 19, in accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Alenka Jeraj, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr Anje Kopač Dark to the question of the Member State Alenka Jeraj regarding irregularities in disabled companies. Can we make a decision? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mrs Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u263	Thank you so much for saying that. This question was also addressed to Dr Anja Kopač Mrak, Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, and I asked her about disabled companies and irregularities in this regard, because a contribution was published in the Epilog programme, which indicated that the Minister and her Director of the Disability Directorate could be involved in the work of the bride or the abandonment of the duty. I asked about a company or decisions for a company in the Crater Group that has several companies set up that have acquired the status of disabled companies and, of course, also received state subsidies. Some of these companies went bankrupt. Employees were asked by the Ministry of Labour to be transferred from one company to another by Martin Odlajek, an entrepreneur. Recently we also monitored the relocation of one of these companies, the Paper Service. There was first a negative opinion by the expert commission, and then in 2011, when Mrs Kopač Mrak was Secretary of State, she was given an agreement on the status of the disabled company. Although the Minister said that control should also take place and that, in one case, they had even taken away the status of the disabled company from Mr Departure, she did not reply to me whether it was okay for people to redistribute themselves, not to be informed and so on. That is why I think it would be right, because there is still a lot of money going on for disabled companies to have a wider debate on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u264	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 45. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I would like to ask your attention, because I inform you that a meeting of the Committee on Culture will continue in the meeting room 212 in 10 minutes, and that a meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment will also begin in 15 minutes in the Grand Chamber in Tomšič. Thank you for your attention. I hereby adjourn the 24th meeting of the convention, which will be resumed on Friday, 25. 4. 2014, at 10 a.m. Thank you and goodbye.
