ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the 21st session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mr. Bevk [[from 15 hours to 15 hours]] Mr Branko Ficko [[from 11 a.m. on]] , Dr. Vinko Gorenak, Dr. Ljubica Jelusic, Mrs. Janja Klasinc, Mrs. Maša Kociper, Mr. Srečko Meh [[By 13:00 p.m.]] , Mr Mitja Meršol, Mrs Jasmina Opec, Mrs Alenka Pavlic, Mrs Marija Plavčak, Mr Marijan Pojbič, Mr Jakob Preseknik, Mr Ivan Simčič, Mr Bojan Starman, Mrs Irena Tavčar and Mrs Kristina Valenčič. I welcome everyone here. We're moving on to 13. At the end of the day, that's a first-hand proposal for a law on financial management. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly, and in relation to this proposal for a law, a group of 26 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general discussion. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Matthew Vraničar, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u2	President, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The bill before you governs the principles of action, organisation, tasks and powers of the newly-initiated financial administration. Collection of data and maintenance of the tax register and records, rights and specificities of the staff of the financial administration and other matters relating to the operation of the financial administration. Currently, in the Republic of Slovenia they collect compulsory duties from the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia and from the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. With the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union, customs control at the national border between Slovenia and Croatia has been lifted and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has assessed that it is appropriate to continue the project already initiated in 2012 and to examine the appropriateness of the allocation of duties of the customs and tax services or to determine whether existing organisation is best in terms of the cost of functioning of the administrative authorities and ensuring effective collection of compulsory duties and the provision of appropriate services to the debtors. In view of the above, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has assessed that, in order to increase the efficiency of the collection of compulsory duties and to increase the rationality of the organisation of both services, it is appropriate for the tax and customs administrations to be merged into a single financial administration. The integration of both services also pursues the objectives of rationalising the implementation of public service procedures, optimising costs to date by separate bodies and making better use of the staff potential of both services. The unification of control mechanisms, databases will allow comprehensive and qualitative treatment of the debtors, as well as the reduction of administrative barriers to compliance with their obligations and, on the other hand, the reduction of the administrative burden on the financial administration. The merger will provide the new body with a uniform, efficient and rapid performance of tasks, equal treatment of all taxpayers, reduced costs on the part of taxpayers and the tax authority, equal access to tax services for all debtors and a more equal burden on all employees. The basic mission of the financial administration or its primary task is to collect compulsory duties, including the exercise of customs control. However, other tasks should be carried out by the future financial service if they are closely linked to this core task and it is rational to join the task of collecting compulsory duties. The aim of the bill is to establish a legal framework for the further development of a modernly organised administrative body that will ensure the implementation of the Taxation Act by following the principle of voluntary compliance with the obligations of the debtors, while ensuring that the taxable persons who do not fulfil their obligations are properly complied with within the time limits and in the manner laid down by the law. The expected effects of the merger relating to the performance of tasks are: reduction of administrative barriers for the debtors; unification of inspections; the possibility of accessing or establishing common databases to enable comprehensive and qualitative treatment of the debtors; better organisation of the joint body and more efficient organisation of work. The expected effects relating to the organisational aspect are the merger of internal organisational units performing the same tasks and the more efficient use of employees. Your Honor! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly to support the proposal for a law and to take a decision at first reading that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u3	Thank you, too, for the introduction to the law. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Franz Bogovic will present the position of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u4	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished president, distinguished secretary of state with co-workers! We are talking about the law on financial administration, and today is the first case under this law. Despite the fact that the Financial Administration Act has over 100 articles, it is more or less focused on one essential point of content: combining tax and customs administrations. Everything else is more or less the transposition of legislation and regulations under the current customs and tax laws. As most of us already know, the DURS merger talks, the tax administration says, and the customs administrations are already under way in the previous term and we have already had a bill prepared for this topic. Indeed, a long time ago, it was known that the entry of Croatia into the European Union would take place in mid-year and that this would also be followed by the need to reorganise the customs services in particular. Undoubtedly, it makes sense to merge the two bodies which have quite similar tasks, in this case, to collect compulsory duties, and to combine them under the same roof, so that the collection of all duties is also monitored and recorded under one roof. Thus, from this point of view, the integration or accession of the customs administration is not special if this means that we will be able to make effective use of the personnel that are now emerging as redundant, given that there is no longer any limit to Croatia's entry into the EU and that we will achieve the specific financial effects and savings that we still need in these times. It is right here that this practice from this coalition has already been recorded on several occasions at the outset. The section of the law, which reads "Assessing the financial implications of the draft state budget bill and other public funds", states that the merger will bring about approximately one million euros in costs, and only that savings are expected in connection with the merger. Savings — What Savings? We don't know if it's 1,000 euros, half a million, 10 million. Whether this means a smaller number of employees or an equal number of employees can do more, have better results, exercise better control. In the context of such a merger, one would think that the objectives of cost rationalisation as well as improvement of results should be very clearly defined and achieved. Only some reorganisations on paper do not bring progress, even less efficiency, but most often more costs and problems. In this case, pooling should be an opportunity to seek synergies for new, common systematisation, in order to avoid duplication of certain tasks. If this were the case, they would probably be talking about 10 to 20% lower costs or, of course, 15, 20% higher efficiency. In Slovenia alone, however, it is possible for the Ministry to prepare a merger of organs and all that can be seen from this conclusion is the forecast of one million additional costs. Just because some tangible goals in this merger are not detected, we feel in the Slovenian People's Party that the real purpose of this time's law is what we have already seen in some other rapid moves in the field of centralisation of the country. The abolition of tax exposures is planned because, as can be seen from some information, it is a matter of joining seven local tax administrations: Ptuj, Dravograd, Brežice, Kočevje, Velenje, Hrastnik and Postojna, as well as customs administrations to larger cities. And since the financial effects we have already learned are not even mentioned in the law, all of this reminds me of all the bad experiences we have from previous centralised decisions. Let us recall the police administrations that were abolished by the Pahor government. In the end, it turned out that savings are not practical and travel costs are increasing as employees drive here and where there are no essentials for improving security, better investigation of crimes, the result is that the residents of the place where the case was terminated have been left without representation from that body and also with many empty premises owned by the State. When we look at the problem a little bit wider than we have already seen in cutting and centralising, it turns out that it is not about saving at all, but about generating red tape in larger cities. We shut down offices, service services, important parts of the public service, we shut down the post office, shut down bank offices, out of the field of inspection services, we briefly return at least 50 years ago when people had to handle all relevant and official matters in larger urban centres. And most bizarrely, we don't even know whether we're actually saving or whether we're going to be workers who have worked in one place until then and who are also socially connected to it, we just have to drive elsewhere to their jobs, and we're going to cause extra transportation costs, and once this job is completed by every individual, there's going to be new jobs that are allowed in this way only in larger urban centres, which we don't agree with in the Slovenian People's Party. So if we are already moving people here and there, then there must be a very clear proven effect both in optimizing the process of work, either the financial impact that such changes had to entail, or the better and better quality of the service offered by this service. If this is not ensured, then I can easily claim that the whole law is behind only the very clear aspirations of the ruling policy after the centralisation of the country, which is now reflected in a number of other proposals. Let us just remember the Rooquitary proposals for the mass abolition of rural communities, remember the unfair property tax, the formation of administrative thefts, and so forth. The coalition should ask itself whether it really wants two Slovenias, urban and rural, rich and poor. And this law is also one of those who can either reduce or expose the gap even more. In the Slovenian People's Party, we expect that in this law, if its purpose is to really only unite tax and customs administrations, it is also very clear what the situation is today. And if the Ministry would later wish to implement organisational changes in terms of the abolition of offices, the exposition should come to the National Assembly for this mandate. The fact is that in the National Assembly we have been elected representatives of the people and only the National Assembly have been able to decide on such fundamental organisational changes in the area of tax collection. And if you want to stop a service once again for people who do not happen to live in one of the major cities in the country, then you will also have to take political responsibility for it. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will closely monitor the adoption of this law. Basic ideas are said to unite under the same roof of the customs and tax administration, we certainly follow and support this objective. However, we must be careful that such a law does not create new injustices across the country and that in some ways it leaves empty areas in the cities owned by the State, and in larger urban centres, someone does leasing contracts and in a similar way expensively sells the facilities to the State. This has been a practice in the past, if necessary, we will also serve on specific cases. However, I think it is right that we are once aware of this responsibility and even of what country we want to have, I mean that Slovenia is beautiful as long as it is decentralised. As long as many people can do their work, including in administrative bodies, near their home and thus influence the quality of life in this place for the wider environment. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that wisdom will prevail, that there are also MPs in the coalition who come from areas where they know very well what it means to step aside these services in the countryside, and that we will eventually adopt such a law that will follow the objectives which this law is intended for.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u5	Thank you. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, distinguished Secretary of State and co-workers! In the DeSUS Group, we took the view, before the proposal for the Financial Administration Act, that we would support it in principle, but we will vote on it in our own conscience by Members and Members of the DeSUS Group. The fact is that we need to reorganise the customs and tax administration. The Single Financial Administration will be more effective in managing its main task, namely tax collection. More important elements of the tasks include external border control, safeguarding the financial interests of the Member States of the European Union, ensuring human security, health, economies and so on. The functions of protection of illegal and illegal trade as well as more appropriate customs controls and international trade are not entirely negligible. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we believe that with the new financial administration we will obtain an update of the system and organisational arrangements in the context of rationalisation and optimization of procedures and related costs. We are aware of the need to adapt the time and development of individual bodies and related bodies and institutions that will carry out their mission more effectively, thus contributing to better organisation and the establishment of a legal framework for the development of administrative management. Of course, there are also costs associated with the merger of the two administrations, estimated at almost one billion euros by the Finance Ministry. And according to our knowledge of the situation at this time these are not negligible costs. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that, despite such institutional organisational change that requires a huge financial supply, the proposed solutions lead in a positive direction. Otherwise, we hope that this administrative improvement will only contribute to a more successful future and to achieving national progress. This also fulfils the coalition commitment to strengthen the development potential of the public sector through such administrative transformation. We estimate that such a proposal will in principle contribute to a more comprehensive, transparent, efficient picture of the whole public system. Given that my fellow Member has concerns about the maintenance or termination of the tax office in Hrastnik and that the competent ministry has not fully convinced him of the positive effects of the reorganisation of tax and customs offices, we are not united in the DeSUS Group on the adoption of this law. Thus, in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we will vote on the proposal on our own conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u7	Thank you, too. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u8	Honourable President of the National Assembly, representatives of the Ministry, colleague and fellow Members! The proposal for the Financial Administration Act was drafted and submitted to the parliamentary procedure in March last year by the previous government, in which Nova Slovenije participated as a coalition party. The current government has withdrawn the bill from the parliamentary procedure. With minor corrections, this bill was tabled in Parliamentary Procedure two months ago and thus lost at least half a year. By this time, the law could have had positive effects. The New Slovenia Christian Democrats support this bill's proposal, just as we supported it in the opposition, as we did in the previous government as a coalition party. The sharing of powers between tax and customs authorities in terms of rationalisation is irrelevant, in particular in the current and changed circumstances. As Croatia enters the European Union, there is no longer a need for customs control at the border with Croatia. Thus, staff resources which are already qualified to collect compulsory duties and other tasks under the responsibility of the customs and tax administration have remained available. On the other hand, the tax administration has been recording human resources malnutrition for some time now. The integration of the two authorities means the rationalisation of the work of the public administration. With appropriate staff allocations, it will be possible to ensure an effective system of collection of taxes, excise duties and other obligations. An important novelty brought by law is the establishment of the powers of financial management officials to carry out financial investigations and other tasks. The proposal for a law shall include inspectors, customs officers, investigators, controllers and expropriators. Such persons may use the powers set out in this Act in the performance of their financial management tasks, such as: seizure of documents, documents, data-collections and other matters, entry into and inspection of land, premises and facilities, inspection of goods and other items, management of means of transport, inspection and investigation of transport, and transfer of funds, security inspection, inspection of persons and other measures. Therefore, the powers will be very broad and reach or even exceed the police powers. Thus, financial administrations authorised will have in their hands an appropriate tool to detect tax evasion. With the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into the European Union and the elimination of customs borders, where tax controls on the movement of goods from and to Slovenia have also been carried out, there have been significant changes in the tax control system. The uncontrolled movement of goods and services within the European Union, and thus the large expansion of the common market, have also resulted in negative effects among the positive effects, in terms of increased tax evasion. Tax evasion, on the one hand, causes direct damage to the budget while, on the other hand, creating unfair competition for honest taxpayers and thus economic damage. In this context, by combining the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia and the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia into a new organisation, a more effective fight against such fraud can be expected. We probably all agree that repression alone cannot be combated against tax evasion, and a broad public awareness campaign on the consequences of tax evasion for the wider social community must also be conducted. Members of the New Slovenia Group will be supported by the proposal for a law on financial management.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr Aloj Potočnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u10	Respectable. The country's fiscal interventions are relatively common in times of crisis, as it is generally the case that countries are faced with a declining return on public finances. First, it intervenes in laws that provide for direct and indirect taxes. Then there is the procedural part of the enforcement of tax legislation, i.e. the Tax Procedure Act. Let me recall the introduction or extension of the tax rate, the assistance between the members of the European Union, the verification of computer programmes, the debtor's records and, more recently, the tax gap between the assets and the declared, generally lower costs or income of the debtor. As the latter comes into the parliamentary procedure, the law on financial administration, which briefly but newly regulates the functioning of powers and the organisation of financial administration. The moment is fast, it is linked to the enlargement of the European Union in our immediate neighbourhood and the circumstances dictate changes similar to those of the European Union on 1 May 2004, when the Republic of Slovenia became part of the so-called Community without borders based on the free movement of people, goods, services and capital. In particular, new areas of work have been opened to the customs service: the fight against illegal international trade, trade in counterfeit goods, organised crime and the introduction of illicit drugs and so on. Some methodical doubt, I am now returning to the organisation of fiscal management, however, is necessary. I remember decades of decommissioning of the Social Accounting Service and many from division and association to 1996. Most of the experience is bad. In particular, mergers have ended according to the rule with poorer quality of services, new administrative costs and additional costs resulting from this enlargement. But knowledge is nothing new, most often adapted to the level of the weakest article. Therefore, some occasional nostalgia after SDK is not surprising or surprising. The merger of both services, tax and customs, into a single financial administration is considered appropriate for the Group of Positive Slovenia. The solution also has the consensus of the social partners at key points, negotiation and consensus are particularly sensitive in organisational laws such as this, important and necessary. This is especially because we often decide on new institutions and also decide, and later, when they start performing tasks, there is a tsunami of surprise. We understand the purpose of the news differently, we have very different expectations, we have very different ideas and we have different affections for them. I have in mind KPK, DUTB, AUKN, SDH, all the known shortcuts of the political debate of late. However, I suppose that we have learned from the past and that bad practices do not always work necessarily further. This is why the financial administration is currently organised, and this is what the law is talking about, the condition for legal, professional, political neutral, open, transparent and economic functioning. The aim and interest of the Republic of Slovenia is to ensure effective collection of public benefits, which will encourage voluntary compliance. The law pays a lot of attention to volunteerism. The question that arises is whether volunteering is a myth or a principle. In this regard, I should mention the following. Since there are organized societies, we've known taxes. The essence of all of these, otherwise varied arrangements throughout history, has always been and is still the nature of the duty to the State. So it's forced. At the same time, it is true that duties, i.e. taxes, contributions, customs today do not constitute an absolute obligation as before. The transparency of public spending, that is, what we are spending taxes on, is increased and, in principle, the taxpayers share income with the country, if I say so in narration. And let me say for taxes collected by the tax service, over 90% of the taxes collected have already been paid on a voluntary basis, and, of course, through controls and enforcement, paid, in particular, I warn, unrepentant, for example, in grey economies or oasis. We also hope to say that volunteering is in correlation with an important principle of a good tax system, with administrative simplicity and transparency. A complicated, blurred regime cannot simply be a civil value. This is not because of officials or administration at the Ministry of Finance and future financial administration, but because of this assembly. Often, regardless of the coalition rainbow, we accept complex, mutually inconsistent, unclear rules and then follow a marked indicative course, if I quote a colleague, from a regulation to a regulation to resolve what to get rid of. This, of course, does not strengthen the voluntary payment of taxes. As a rule, any tax or customs act is bound and arises, of course, because of the scope of the duties imposed on the debtors. If we advocate a cost-effective and efficient financial administration, we will also make it possible for tax and customs debtors to be cost-effective and effective. International experience shows that indirect costs, i.e. maintenance of information and accounting systems, lawyers, tax advisers and so on, are all in relation to taxes, i.e. costs in companies, institutions, independent entrepreneurs, companies, five times the cost of tax administration. And these currently amount to about 100 million euros. In other words, translated in the language of numbers, these indirect costs of the tax administration in Slovenia amount to nearly half a billion euros a year. A terrible burden, I'd say, but for taxes and customs we haven't paid anything yet, we just prepared ourselves, ironically, to be able to pay voluntarily. Near the end, it means the so-called human resource of employees in financial administration. Many tasks, including demanding and risky ones, are carried out. The quality of human resources in financial administration is crucial. It is not possible to talk about the excellence of financial management if the good staff are simply leaving, if young inspectors, due to the demanding and over-exploited tasks assigned, fall short of professional skills and then lose the necessary reputation and credibility in the long term. Therefore, in the Group of Members, it seems to us that the quality management system and the value of the professional examination are essential, of course, supported by the continuous maintenance of skills, skills and skills. Every money invested in this is a real investment and is similar to, for example, investing in economic development. Until more detailed organisation is subject to the regulation and not to this law, the Group of Members is not currently defined. In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u11	Thank you, too. Ms Romana Tomc will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. State secretary with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party supports the integration of the tax and customs administration into the single service. Even more, we believe that it is high time that this idea is finally being realized, because the idea of merger is not new. The merger, as we know, had been planned for some time now, the proposal for a law had already been drawn up during the previous government and was put into public consultation as early as January 2013. The merger is due to take place not later than 1 July last year, at the time of Croatia's entry into the European Union, following an initial proposal. This date, of course, has long been behind us, and it is not clear why the law came on the parliamentary bench only today or in those days. Until its actual use, however, it will take some time. If you look closely at the transitional or final provisions, you will see that the law will not apply until 4 months after its entry into force, this is not expected until the beginning of the following year. This delay must also have been accompanied by coordination with a wide range of stakeholders, such as trade unions, which had to ensure that the rights of employees at DURS and CURS remain comparable to those of the current rights. However, let me remind you that we are not working or simply adopting this law in order to solve the human resources problem of the new financial administration, but we accept it so that the financial administration will be effective, friendly and successful in the collection of mandatory duties. As in every law, there are also high objectives based on principles that cannot be challenged in any way. The objectives are as follows: "The Modern Financial Administration shall strive for legal, professional, political neutral, open and transparent and effective action, which must not only be determined by a supervisory task, but must act as a service service to the debtors and develop partnerships with those who are willing to fulfil their obligations voluntarily and legally." That's a great goal. Unfortunately, our laws are also marked by the fact that the implementation of these goals is worse. If we ask the taxpayers today how they imagine meeting this objective and when, they think that this will actually happen, they will surely tell you that it is still very, very far away. Nevertheless, of course, we all hope that the new financial administration will succeed. With the principle of support of the bill, we also have some concerns in the Slovenian Democratic Party, very serious concerns about individual solutions. Let me list some of the most important things. For starters, I'll stop at the financial consequences. The financial implications of this law are estimated at around EUR million, slightly less. This is supposed to be one-off costs at the time of merger and, of course, undeclared further costs, including information technology, are projected below. However, this is a very large amount of money, especially in the context of the fact that at any time we adopt new laws, despite many promises, especially the minister dealing with the reduction of administrative barriers and the rationalisation of public administration, we are constantly and again in need of new information equipment, which, of course, costs a lot. According to information provided by the Minister on one of the questions sent, we are spending around €100 million per year on the operation of information support to state authorities and all support services in our country. However, we are constantly upgrading EUR 100 million with new, even more modern information systems, which are generally not compatible with each other, and some additional upgrades are needed in order to work at all. In this regard, I should also recall, of course, that a large-scale computerisation of the tax information system, which cost more than €22 million, began years ago. In addition, I would like to recall that we have recently passed a real estate tax law, where the financial result was due to the new information technology or system that Durs will need to implement this tax, estimated at a million and a half. With each new law, we add a million or two to these information solutions. I think, my fellow Members and colleagues, that we should be very serious about whether this area can be rationalised. The money, as we know, is missing in our country, we are generously indebted, and on the other hand we are scattering millions for some new information solutions. Despite the fact that, according to the applicant's assurances, the combined economy is expected to be subject to a reduction in administrative burdens, we estimate that this is not the case. In fact, we believe that paper business is still being overly maintained. Paper business in the sense that the debtors must propose a variety of evidence, photocopies in tax procedures, in particular in paper form. And once again, I remind you of a law passed a few weeks ago that we have enacted that all those who will deal with the country will have to propose accounts exclusively in electronic form. Only in electronic form. So at one end, we are actually introducing totalitarian electronics, and on the other hand, we are maintaining a different way of doing business, and it seems to me that we should also take a uniform approach in this area. The law introduces two very important novelties in specific provisions at the end. They say that if you really want to know what new marriages bring, you have to start reading from the end. Finally, two articles, just two articles, define a special status to promote the voluntary fulfilment of obligations that some debtors may receive and, more importantly, for taxpayers, some very important financial investigations. A new definition is the financial investigation, which is supposed to be a merger between the current tax investigation and the current customs investigation into a new financial investigation. We have nothing against it, we have been even advocates of the financial police, things to be explored, things to be done in the right way, with the necessary human resources and, of course, adequate knowledge, but not only with this, including with very clear rules, in what way, when and how the important actions or actions of the new financial administration, such as, say, financial investigation, will take place. We would not like to have any doubt that, due to vague criteria and criteria for when a financial investigation may be introduced, we are in a situation where we are wondering whether this could have been introduced for any subjective reasons or whether the reason for the financial investigation is entirely objective. In short, we want to set clear criteria and criteria. There's something else I'd like to point out. A number of sub-legislative acts are tabled in the bill, nine annexed regulations and two regulations. Which is commendable, this should always be accompanied. In fact, a law without legal acts could not be dealt with. But it's almost the most important thing. The one already pointed out by colleague Bogovic is missing in the presentation of the position of the Group of Members. The Regulation referred to in Article 9 of this Law is missing. This is the regulation that will determine how the new financial administration will be organised. Look, on the other hand, we have a special rule among these rules on wearing a financial administration uniform, we have another rule, another special rule on the color and labelling of the uniform in the financial administration. Even these two things weren't combined into one rulebook. That's the right thing to do. It is right that we have rules, what forms will be the sign of the new financial administration, what colors will be the flag of the new financial administration, although, of course, this has not yet been chosen, because it will be selected on some public invitation to tender, but there is a basis in the regulation. We don't know, but we don't know how this new financial administration is actually going to be organised locally. This is a very important question. And let me immediately say that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we advocate rationalisation, that we know that we will also have to do something in the context of the new financial administration to bring together individual now existing tax and customs offices. However, this needs to be discussed more widely. This simply cannot be a matter of a regulation, so far a very mysterious regulation, of which we know nothing at this moment. And, of course, we want to talk about this earlier. And we want this regulation to be the most important regulation or one of the most important regulations accompanying this law to be annexed to the law. And only then will we be able to deal fully with the law. Of course, this leaves some poor taste that things that are less important are being treated in very detail to pay great attention to them in all these efforts, how I will be as transparent as possible, how we will pursue as little red tape as possible. On the other hand, such important things as the new organisation are actually going so far. We also wonder, of course, how the new organisation is envisaged to be linked to ideas on the new organisation of administrative services. How this goes along with the ideas that we listen to here, about the reorganisation of local self-government or local administration at all, with the integration of municipalities. In short, is there any connection here? If there is, what kind of connection exists. And actually, what are the ideas? And, of course, at this point, I call on the proposer to complete the law with all the sub-legal acts that should be annexed here. Of course, we expect and believe that mergers will have positive effects in terms of greater efficiency, because otherwise they cannot actually be. And, of course, it will also bring more rationalisation. It is clear, however, that efficiency does not only mean more tax collection, but rather the concern that the Financial Administration will ensure that all taxes that should be paid are actually collected. Sometimes, or even now, they called it, "Caesar, what is Caesar's." Of course, we hope that the new financial administration will be successful in its work, we will support in our votes that the law goes forward in its treatment and in its follow-up procedures, but that the open questions that I have raised in this position, which I have pointed to, of course, we will want answers and, on the basis of them, we will decide on our final support or non-support of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u13	Thank you, too. Mr Matevž Frangež will present the views of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u14	Respected and respected! Social Democrats are a coalition party. For us, parliamentary treatment of this law does not therefore begin today, but in fact, the law on financial administration has already undergone a significant grinding, assessment, confrontation of views, causes and consequences of the merger of the tax and customs administration into a new body empowered to collect taxes and other compulsory duties in the Republic of Slovenia. We are convinced that we have already contributed to the improvement of this law in the stage of our consideration so far, but as with others, there are also some challenges facing further coalition coordination. First of all, we want to talk to the Social Democrats about tax culture. To give Caesar what was Caesar's, we used to be able to do in these places. But it's not a tax to the emperor, it's not a tax to someone else. Social Democrats believe in the social state of Slovenia, we believe in its strong solidarity and justice principle. We want the responsible policy, the professional administration and good governance of all social subsystems to give all citizens and citizens an adequate equivalent for the taxes and taxes paid. We don't pay taxes for someone else. We do not pay contributions for someone else, but primarily to provide ourselves, our families and the whole community with the level of rights that we consider to be in line with the civil nature of this time. This is an extremely important emphasis. Increasingly, in Slovenia, the belief is confirmed that we have brought an important part of our social life and the national economy to a grey field of avoidance. It should also be pointed out that, in these cases, it is not primarily about cheating on the State, but rather about cheating on itself. We stress, however, that there is still much to be done in politics and throughout the public sector to ensure that the citizen of the economic operator or any tax resident of the Republic of Slovenia receives the corresponding equivalent of the tax paid, which he will be able to appreciate as a return service provided to him by the community. In adopting the Financial Administration Act, we want to warn the Social Democrats about the reorganisational property that we have been going to Slovenia for several years. Each government is trying to reorganize something, set up a new office, and a new coalition is coming, and it seems to it that this office or administration is unnecessary, and so on and on and on. The result of this process is flawed, ineffective institutions that become themselves intended, but no longer know how to carry out their broader mission for which they are established. An example of the former Social Accounting Service, which has already been mentioned for this speaker today, is a good example of the disassembly of institutions, the creation of something new, which does not ultimately bring optimal but often worse results than the great goals that were set at the beginning of this process. We therefore stress that today the Law on Financial Administration is before us as an act laying down the arrangements for a final situation, the final state of the day on which the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia will be established. Only in rare provisions do these provisions relate to the process itself – a process that needs to be conducted responsibly, in order to create in the current customs administration and tax administration, on the other hand, between employees, between different business cultures and business processes within these institutions a suitable corporate culture, which will ultimately, with the high level of belonging and commitment of employees to objectives, with a good organisational structure that will deliver optimum results, be able to achieve the purpose of financial management. It is therefore all the more important in this area to train and strengthen the structure which will give the country an appropriate body for an effective tax collection system tomorrow. True, this law was drafted by the former government of Janš. In this too, we see the promise and hope that the next government will not start the process from scratch, this institution will rediscover and put the process back to zero. In this respect, it is important to develop a policy that relies on a certain degree of continuity and builds on improving existing proposals, not on their decomposition. It seems important to us to point out that intensive social bargaining has already taken place in the process of drafting this law. We find this issue particularly important and sensitive. It is true that we do not combine these two institutions because of the employees, but the employees in these two institutions are in the new financial administration of the Republic of Slovenia the tool, the power of the State to carry out tasks in this area effectively, responsible, fair and lawful. The laws are good and bad, but their implementation eventually stops at a man with public authority and responsibility to do his job well. In the case of the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia, we can see that there are still two business cultures: one from the former Republic Public Payments Administration and the other from the former tax authorities. And the third, in fact, from the Social Accounting Service, which, to a large extent after its transformation, divided into IAPES on the one hand, public payments on the other and part into tax administration. Therefore, it is so important that the genesis of institutions comes at the level of the employees that these institutions create. Some discussions so far have also touched on the territorial, regional issues of organisation of future financial administrations. We agree that these aspects of compliance are valuable and that they need to be taken into account with precision not only in the process of pooling these institutions, but also in the wider range of future administrative arrangements of the country, that this regime must be as uniform as possible, but, on the other hand, through the development of services, in particular the development of e-services, follow the broadest accessibility of citizens and citizens to public administration services, including the tax service. We will therefore pay attention to this issue in further coordination. For the time being, however, it is also thanks to our law that a solution is in place that promises a more gradual, thoughtful and territorially balanced organisation of the financial administration. But on the other hand, while everyone in this room often demands rationalisation in public administration, let us not forget that we can be very quickly opposed to this process as soon as a part of this process touches our home place. Here it will be necessary to choose the appropriate sense and moderation in choosing between rationalisation, between the locationability of financial administration services and, on the other hand, the legitimate expectations of individual regions after the decentralised organisation of public administration. Social Democrats believe that the Financial Administration Act in many ways improves the set of tools for an effective system of collection of compulsory taxes and taxes. This will be because we have been particularly attentive to the ability of the state administration in the direction of modern financial police in recent years. At this stage, the Social Democrats will support the Financial Administration Act, and in the general debate and debate on the Committee, we will try to contribute as much as possible to the law so that, after the merger of these two institutions into the single financial administration of the Republic of Slovenia, Slovenia will have a good, highly motivated, effective tax and compulsory service, which will, in the first place, provide citizens with a sense of the appropriate equivalence of the fees paid in order to extend the voluntary nature of fulfilling obligations not only to the State but also to the community and to ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr Marko Pavlisič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The aim of the State in the tax area must be to establish such a tax system that people will see as fair and will be happy to pay their taxes. Which means having a reasonable tax rate, not practically the highest taxes in the world. It means having a uniform distribution of duties, which, for example, in the field of work manifests a password Each work counts. And it means knowing that such collected money has been spent effectively, transparently, for the right purpose and for the common good, without corruption, without nepotism, without unnecessary spending. It's a vision, of course. And in the Civil Gazette, we will always stand up for all the good solutions that will lead us in this direction. And when this vision is realized, then the financial management will be just an automatic program that will automatically record the inflows and direct them to the relevant accounts and there will be no questions about what the flag and what the sign of the financial administration should be, whether the dacars have guns or prefers to licks and what kind of supplement belongs to the one who goes to the field. But as long as that is not the case, we must make sure that the collection of taxes and other taxes is properly organised. It makes sense to bring similar organisations together into a single organisation and thus take advantage of the advantages that such an organisation brings. It is mainly about reducing administrative barriers for the debtors, uniting inspections, common databases and the rest that such an organisation brings. In the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, we will support the draft law and allow it to continue its path through the legislative path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u17	Thank you, too. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. The word has magic. Katarina Hotchevar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! In short, we could say that what we have to give to the state is going under one roof or one place. The Minister recently said in public that in fact both tax and customs administrations in certain areas are already working or participating in joint projects and that this law is a practical formalisation of what is in practice at least partly already going on. And it is true that we have talked about the establishment of a financial administration or so-called merger or have begun to think before Croatia enters the European Union. It is clear from the material that these costs of merger will be EUR million, but nevertheless I am interested in when, the Ministry or now the tax administration that is leading this project, in what time these costs will be reimbursed if we anticipate or plan the objective of the synergies that this merger is supposed to have. If we look at comparable countries with us, then we can find that in most countries, which we can consider to be comparable to us, that they have a unified tax and customs administration, namely Austria, part of the Czech Republic, even in Estonia and Ireland, we can track and probably follow this in Slovenia. I like or close to Article 4, which somehow pursues the objective of a modern concept of public administration. You wrote in there that the Financial Administration will be obliged to explain, to inform the public or I understand it as one more emphasis on this civic awareness that it is necessary to give to the emperor what is Caesar's. On the other hand, I may have been a little intimidated by certain approaches or institutions in Chapter Powers. There we find articles talking about the use of firearms, I find a verbal connection, I think in article 37, which says, "Stop, I'll shoot!" In Article 38, we are talking about working dogs and also about uniforms. Therefore, the question arises to me here whether this law also gives us the financial police or the police. Either now, in fact, all these powers and powers have been enshrined in legislation concerning customs administrations or customs, and I am now wondering whether all these powers and uniforms and service dogs and the use of firearms are now attached or given to present-day dacars or officials who will take care of this financial work. Of course, I am also very interested in this regulation as set out in Article 9 of the Act. I think it would be right and fair if the Ministry gave us and submitted all the other rules that before we finally press "for" this law, we are also aware of how this new state body will be organised territorially. Because, however we say that the law is modern, it is crucial that it is close to people if we are to pursue the objective of friendly and accessible public administration. And now let me remind you, after all, that the last reorganisation of the tax administration has gone in the direction of turning the exposures into so-called tax offices. I wonder if, as an office, you already have any evaluation of what this change has caused in the scratch, if, for example, you have been told by the directors of the current tax offices, if they have written reports on this, what they have said and whether the proceeds are indeed the same as you said to the coalition members at the coalition meetings. I just want to point out here that we're not going to, I'm going to say, we're going to cancel something quickly again, we're going to centralize it, and later in a year or two, we're going to find that, but it's going to be more like that river Shake is a mountain, it was born a mouse, so they kind of call it. It's kind of my thoughts and thoughts when I read very carefully the law you've passed on to our Members. I hope to get answers to these concerns. I believe, however, that you will listen to all our concerns in this legislative procedure and that together, before the law is finally adopted, we will be careful and formulate solutions that will not be now, I will say, close or essential to our Members, but that they will be close and at the scale of Slovenian citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u19	Thank you, too. Mr Ivan Hršak has the floor. But get ready, Mr. Boyan Starman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State, Director Dursa with co-workers and co-workers. Where do I start, actually? I will begin by saying that, in fact, the basic law, such as it is, I do not oppose it, but I have great concerns that I have already expressed before, that is from September onwards, with regard to this regulation, as well called Roman Tomc and colleague Katarina Hotcheva, this is said with regard to the reorganisation at individual levels, in the regions. Of course, we have informal information here that the Financial Office will be composed of the Customs and Tax Office. Then there should be eight financial offices, but to reduce to this number of eight, there are now 15 tax offices and with these 15 tax offices will then be reduced to eight. That's what they say, they're going to be cut off by seven, or, more popular than the real ministry, they're going to be joined together. Thus, in this Slovenia there are always one and the same centers, one and the same regions: Koroška, Zasavje, Posavje, then Kočevsko, Postojna and so on. In short, the 7 is not supposed to be any more. The oak tree where I come from may always be a special story that they don't even know where to put us. For example, we always fall under administrative matters under Ljubljana, under electoral law they put us under Dolensko, under Novo Mesto, and now they would tax us under Celje. And Cel and I had nothing in history, except that he put us under the number 03 a few years ago, and we had this before under Ljubljana. It bothers me that this regulation will pass through the National Assembly, for example, this reorganisation, which is now under way and all the like, is then definitively regulated by a regulation adopted by the Government past the National Assembly. But I am of the opinion that such great reorganisations cannot pass through the National Assembly. And now I have two solutions here, because as an MEP from Hrastnik, I do not agree with Zasavje, that is to say that I would break up or merge the Hrastnik tax office with Cel. We have two solutions, whether we are with the amendment, but I must say that this solution, which I am now talking about, or this solution to the problem, is supported by Members from all of these areas that I have mentioned, from Koroška to the White Country, Permanent and so on. In short, everywhere the tax offices are cut off, I have the support to sort this out somehow. This is a way that the solutions do not agree. Do we have one option that with the amendments we enter into the law, that is to say, these tax offices do not end. Or else, before we decide on the final adoption of the law, this regulation will be written. Of course, the regulation should, in our opinion, say that this is not based on eight, as it is now, but somewhere on the 12th. We stand in the position that Slovenia must be somewhere in 12 regions, as we have statistical regions. We've already lost the police administration, now we're going to lose the tax administration, next time we're going to lose something else because they're always the same regions at impact. In short, when the reorganisation takes place, they will tell you how you will have a region, but if you no longer have any state authority there. And I don't really agree with that. So that I don't know, then I would like an answer from you, because my colleague Romana has actually said well that there should also be a sub-legislative act here, a regulation in which it must be accurately written, which tax offices will no longer be or which will remain in the financial office, and on this basis we will then decide. That is to say, I believe that this annex should be in addition to the law and then we will decide on it. I am also an opinion or I am sure that such an organisation as I have just said is not in the interest of the taxpayers. For example, when you abolished the tax exposition and introduced the tax office, it was not in the interests of the taxpayers. Earlier, the taxpayers at these tax expositions were actually able to do everything and every day, from Monday to Friday. Now these tax offices are only open twice a week and taxpayers come to these tax offices and can actually just tell you what they want and then send these requests from the tax office, what the taxpayer wants, to the tax office that is responsible for it. Then the taxpayer can go home and wait for him to be informed when this matter will be settled in this tax office, and then he will return here again. There are anomalies here. The paper said, now I can't say that this is 100% accurate, but one such typical case of a large anomaly, we assume it's true. The taxpayer from Brežice inherited, that was in Žurnal, a property in Ljubljana. Since this property was in Ljubljana, they told her that she had to come to a place where this property was, so that she could arrange a gift contract. When she arrived at the tax office in Ljubljana, they said, "Yes, but we don't handle it in Ljubljana, it's regulated in Logatec, at Logatec Exhibition. "And then she had to go to Logatec. And since it was an accident Tuesday, it says Tuesday, she came to Logatec, she ran into a closed door because they're working on Monday and Wednesday. And she came back and she was actually angry. This kind of thing has already been introduced by tax offices since you broke out of the outposts. Now, for example, for Zasavje, if there was a tax office in Celje, in certain cases these tax-debtors from Zasavje to Celje will have to go, but not only to Celje, because they will have to do certain things, now I will caricature, in Murska Sobota, I do not know where else and this taxpayer will have to go there. Of course, the ministry advocates that today we are in the age of the Internet, so that all of this will be regulated online, we must move forward with time. I absolutely agree, because our voters, the pensioners, don't master the Internet, maybe someone else doesn't. According to some data, in Slovenia, 60% of citizens who can handle matters and can do all these things on the Internet may be circusing. The remaining circuses are 40% 40. And he can't stand it. And in all cases, you can't, at least I think, now I'm thinking casually, do it all over the Internet. Certain things, if you have to bring a physical contract, sign it, you have to get to where the tax office will then tell you or financially. I see problems here. I see the problem now that I do not know where these taxpayers will have to go, and these visits will also have to do with costs. These costs, if he went to Hrastnik from Trbovlje and Zagorje, will now have to go to Celje for the first time or elsewhere, this cost is simply the burden of the taxpayer. I think that our country must strive to be more friendly with its citizens. This is said to make matters easier for them, rather than making matters more difficult or burdening them with additional costs. And here I would like to say one concrete answer to all my concerns and the way we will handle this. That is to say, if this is not as arranged as I said, then I am a pessimist, how will I actually vote in the end. I understand these voters from Zasavje from Hrastnik, and I don't care if they tell me that I voted in the National Assembly for solutions that are not in their favor or that are in their favor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u21	Thank you, too. He'll get the word "magic." Andrej Vizjak. But get ready, Mr. Janez Fish. I'm sorry, he's got a mag. Leila Hercegovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! My procedural proposal is that no matter what law we are considering, today we are speaking at the level of the whole country, i.e. Slovenia. I protest that some Members, when it comes to their cities, are adapting the laws to their city, not to the whole country. Comrade Hršak, you didn't say that when we were in health care, nine health care institutions and IVZ, together, but you were in for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u23	And what will be your procedural proposal, Mrs Hercegovac?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u24	Members, when we talk about the law on financial management, look at the whole country and at the level of Slovenia, not at their place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u25	Thank you. I can see that all those who debated have debated on behalf of the whole country. I do not think there was any dispute in these discussions. The Regulation is something that has been mentioned to regulate the allocation of tax administrations and this has been clearly exposed to almost all the debaters who have mentioned these topics to expect the National Assembly to play a decisive role here, which means that the discussions were correct. I give the word "magic." Andrei Vissiak. But get ready, Mr. Janez Fish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Finance! I'm very happy to have this intervention, because I'm going back to her. See, otherwise, I support the project of merger of the customs and tax administration, because I believe that the customs administration has substantially changed its role and, finally, the scope of work with the fall of the last customs border, that is to say the borders between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia, with Croatia entering the European Union. It is also right that this reorganisation should follow the principle of rationalisation. I am directly surprised that here the country did not take these options more widely, more rationalisation and send the armies of customs officers around the taverns to harass those who are legally engaged in their activities, as well as others, at the stand at, I would say, November 1st or at various seasonal fairs before the new year in terms of money-hunting for the state treasury. I believe that with some smart rationalisation, the operation of these services, when we talk about their number, would achieve greater financial effects than these and would also be sustainable. So what do I want to point out in the beginning? In order to be a project for the integration of the customs and tax administrations, it could indeed be a project for the rationalisation of the state administration. This is a missed opportunity because promises have already been made to the various unions of these organs. If there is too much work left for anyone, there is a lot left for a lot of people who played their part at the border with Croatia. Okay, well, the current government has decided to do what they did. I would like to draw attention to a problem that has already been warned twice or three times today and also mocked by Mrs Hercegovac – a future regional organisation of the financial administration, the so-called Joint Customs and Tax Administration. I cannot imagine that before the introduction of the provinces or some other level of local self-government, organised in the country, each state authority would organise institutions in its own regional way. Actually, I'm really dismayed when I see these experiments. We had, say, an attempt at the establishment of thefts, including administrative thefts, then an attempt at social work centres, now an attempt at financial administration, without the country having any concept of how to reorganise and how to regionally establish these institutions. I think, respected by the Ministry of Finance, and here I am referring a direct question to you so that the greatest savings and organisational reserves could be possible if we brought together all state authorities at regional level, we say, a horizontal link at regional level. Not that the administrative district has a purely separation from the tax authority or the tax district or the tax administration, the district unit or, as it is called, the same social work centres, equally, I do not know, other state institutions. The greatest potential for savings and optimal organisations is if these authorities connect at regional level. All the other divisions and mergers that I think make more costs than savings. An attempt to bring together some police administrations under the mandate of the government of Borut Pahor, where Mrs Kresal, the interior minister, hysterically defended this project and abolished, for example, the Police Administration of Krško and was attached to the Police Administration of Novo Mesto, did not give birth to a single euro of savings. Moreover, it has caused additional costs due to various transports and the need for new accommodations in New Town and now empty spaces in Krk. Similarly, you intend to do so here. That's why you're hiding this regulation because I know you're ready, and I also know what solutions are in it. You anticipate eight financial administrations plus one in Ljubljana. Ladies and gentlemen, I am asking you how you think you are going to do this, and how do you think that, for example, Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš, who is coming from Trbovlje, will agree that there will be no tax administration in the future in Trbów. Whether Mr Hršak, who comes from Hrastnik, or Mrs Katarina Hočevar, or, for example, Mr Meh, who comes from Velenje, or Mr Zanoškar, who comes from Slovenia Gradac, or, say, Mr Lisec, Mr Bogovic and I personally, who come from Posavje, I in particular from Brežice, where you now have a tax office and customs office. I could also mention Mr Vebra, the President of Parliament, who comes from Kočev, where they have a tax office. And I apologize to all those I've forgotten, I also see a gentleman from Postojna, so, look, here, you know, but we're not going to get together coalitionly. But here you will have one, I would say, a coalition of written-offs, eraseds, or whatever you call them, associated, united, if you combine organs and offices. Therefore, I strongly advise you to listen to the words of the Members of Parliament. I was much more direct than Mrs Hochevar, who told you the same thing, would say in a very nice way. However, I have observed the attempt of Mrs Hercegovac, who is a fool who does not see the problems of the Slovenian countryside, where such institutions are the only jobs they have. She doesn't give a shit because she lives in a big place and doesn't really care what happens in Brežice, Hrastnik, what happens in Krske, Sevnica, Velenje and so on, in Kočev, in Ribnica. However, I do not care, Mrs Hercegovac, and this is my problem, a national issue, and I am fighting for jobs there and, lastly, also for the functions performed by these authorities there and which are close to people. I suggest, respectable and to the government, that until this second level of organisation of the country, you do not do these reorganisational matters in your own way, so that you can unify yourself a little in the government, where you will have these regional institutions, and I propose quite concretely. Until it's different, it respects 12 statistical regions. Slovenia is organised in 12 statistical regions and we also have 12 development regions. So we already have one, whatever we call it, we have one regional organisation. If you want to reduce something, you actually have one model here. However, if you intend to introduce 8 provinces or 6 or 3, come with this proposal to Parliament and we will discuss it and perhaps accept it and then reorganise it. I don't think that the approach you've taken here is a coincidence that you're not letting this regulation out and you're hiding it. And I ask you directly: How did you imagine the implementation of Article 8 of this Law, which deals with these issues that I have raised, and how will you take these views into account from the first reading, because this first reading is intended to correct or upgrade the solutions that you have in accordance with the debates of Members and Members?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u27	Thank you. Replica has only a moment, Mrs Hercegovac, you had a procedural proposal, you had no discussion, so the replica is not possible. [[…]] Mr. Janez Ribič has the floor and he's preparing himself for the mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Dear representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! Talks on the merger of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia and the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia have already been conducted in the previous government mandate, and a law on this subject has already been prepared. In fact, Croatia's entry into the European Union was planned and thus the need to reorganise the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. It makes sense that the collection of all compulsory duties is grouped under one roof and that the collection of these duties is also monitored and recorded under one roof. The merger or accession of the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia is nothing special if this means that we will be able to use effectively the extra personnel that have emerged since Croatia's entry into the European Union. Although the law does not accurately define the financial effects of mergers, it is unclear what brings us together from this financial point of view. I estimate that the positive financial effects should be quite large if a more thorough reorganisation is to take place. Just bringing offices together doesn't mean much. It is important that organisational structures and sub-structures should be properly integrated in order to actually be more effective. So, just pooling on paper does not save any euro, only the resulting systemic reorganisation could contribute to positive effects. That is why more should be said. The bigger problem that we see in the Slovenian People's Party in this law, which is hidden in the background, is, of course, the planned abolition of tax exposures. On the seven local tax administrations as we have heard today, Ptuj, Dravograd, Brežice, Kočevje, Velenje, Hrastnik and Postojna, as well as customs offices. This, of course, reminds me again of the bad experiences of previous such centralised decisions, where it turned out that there are no savings, nor any other effects. The result is that the inhabitants of the place where the case was terminated were left without representation from that body, lost some jobs and so on. If we look at the problem a little bit wider, we're shutting down people's offices, jobs, important parts of the public service. We're shutting down their mail, closing down bank offices, pulling out of the field inspection services, briefly returning 50 years ago, where people had to handle all the relevant and official matters in a larger urban centre. This will end with us, it seems, everything in Ljubljana. In this place, however, we fear that it is only the very obvious aspirations of the ruling policy after the centralisation of the country, which is now reflected in many proposals, that we remember only the proposals for the mass abolition of rural communities, that we remember the unfair tax on real estate and so on. Let the coalition ask itself whether we really want two Slovenias, urban and rural, rich and poor. I cannot support such decisions as there is once again a tendency to further centralise this country. I think we should listen to all our discussions. I understand rationalisation, I understand that some moves must be made, but not to the detriment of those areas that are already losing. If I look only, let's say what's going on in the center of our country, in the Municipality of Ljubljana. We have all the ministries in one place. Each ministry for itself is one big company, as far as employees are concerned. And anyone who comes looking for a job, maybe through some internship, young people at the Ministry will stay. And everything comes somehow from those centers that I advocate that such individual activities should remain in them. Let's try to sort these things out in this little country somehow. This activity will certainly be cheaper, not that people will move from one place to another to work if they can do so at home, close to their inhabitants. That's why I think it's going to take some more effort. Today, the law is at first reading, and I am sure that our debate will contribute to the fact that we can also change and improve some things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u29	Thank you, too. The word could have been mag. Ivan Vogrin, but he's not in the hall right now, so he's got the word mag. Andrey Shircelj. Did you want to be a representative of the government? No, no, no. Mag. Andrej Shircelj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State with colleagues, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Financial Administration or Financial Administration Act has been in preparation for a long time. After all, we can talk about years of preparation. The first question is why this matter has been going on for so long. The second question is what will be the outcome of this merger and what will increase to efficiency. According to the latest data, the current organisation does not provide sufficient efficiency as we were aware that, for example, the revenue generated by taxes in 2013 was 5% lower than in 2012. This means, of course, that despite the increase in taxes, something goes wrong with the tax administration, or something goes wrong in the whole tax system when taxes are constantly increasing on the one hand and on the other we have a smaller profit. The tax administration does not even achieve the plan that it has actually set, nor does it achieve greater revenue at higher tax rates, but actually smaller. As a result of this, the deficit is increasing and, in fact, the state is increasingly in debt or is not in a position to repay itself at all, as was the case in the last week when the Minister of Finance travelled 10 days across America and was found to be in no debt. Whether the interest rate was 5% too much or not is now another question, but such a policy does not lead us anywhere. Nor does it lead us to the fact that today we have a law on a new financial administration without a basic act, without a basic regulation. Although this Regulation has been written many times, although this Regulation has already been discussed many times, it has been discussed. After all, it is here to ask whether the coalition agrees with such a new financial administration that does not actually have a basic act. We know that all sub-laws must be delivered to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And if, of course, we have a sub-law on uniforms here, I don't understand why we don't have a sub-legislative act on a regulation that will determine how many tax offices will have tax administrations, especially if we have ultimately done expertise, analysis on this, four possible options are chosen, of course, how many tax administrations we will have, and finally one can be chosen. And it will probably be the one after which Kočevje will join the New City, probably the one after which Brežice will join the New City, Dravograd will join Maribor, Koper and Postojna will join together. It actually exists. But why does the government of Alenka Bratusek not actually present the whole subject to the Members? What's here to hide? Does the coalition disagree with the future number of tax offices? Is this about something else? In short, we are actually without some basic rules laying down the operating conditions of the new financial administration. The next question is for the government representative. Financial investigation provision, paragraph 99. First time. Why is this provision in this law? Why is this not a matter of tax law? Is there something forgotten in there, or is it possible that it's in here by accident? But is that under special provisions? There should probably be another verb in Article 108, something is missing here, this 108th article is slightly superficially written. To quote: "Financial administration for the consumption of stocks of newspapers of the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia and the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia." Whatever that means. Probably the government knows that. And what are all the procedures, detailed procedures, that the Tax Administration will actually be united operationally? How will it unite and to which financial offices? Who and how? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u31	Thank you, too. Mr Borut Ambrožič could have a word, but he is not in the Chamber, so he has the word Mr Franz Pukšič, Mr Jožef Horvat, to prepare. Here you go, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! When the Social Accounting Service was in office, we all remember today, but I myself led an investigative commission of damage to social property and, when reviewing what this service was doing at the time, it was found to be the most restrictive and far - reaching service we had in the former country. We don't have anything like that anymore. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have said that the merger with the Customs Administration, yes, but we say clearly and loudly that we will not agree to the abolition of certain tax offices. Also from another address, it is wise not to do so, not only to reduce the costs of kobajagi far from it, but we are so small in Slovenia and it is right that some tax office in Ptuj or Brežica does some activity for someone who is in Ljubljana. However, these links are smaller and therefore they are even more effective if they operate, I will say, cross, or the Ljubljana tax office for someone who is on Ptuj because we are almost all up or down the third or fourth knee. That, therefore, we will have a lower cost by abolishing some tax offices and that citizens will have to be given less – of course, far away from it. If we had an emperor today, we would say we have a tenth and we would pay the citizens a tenth, because today we have Alenka Bratušek, and we have a ninetieth of what they get. Just on the pay, if you look at it, from 60 to 70 % is about the duty, where the income is, where the VAT and all the other fees are. Now comes the real estate compensation and so on. In the end, people really give almost 90% of what was given to the emperor was 10%. In order for this money to really go for upgrades, social upgrades, for superstandard people, quality, health care, education — what we already said a day or two about roads — and so on. Unfortunately, it is a matter of paying those who robbed the country, i.e. still paying the tycoons, 3 billion recapitalisation, now 6 billion recapitalisation, only to remember the Pahor government, when the budget was in debt for 7 billion euros. I am pleased that some members of the coalition also point to this inadequacy of the abolition of individual tax offices, but they must bow down a little bit and say, "Some of our sins, my dear President, Comrade Virant, you would have abolished municipalities, they have now remembered, they would have abolished tax offices and so on. In short, talking one way, doing the other. It's not working! And in the Slovenian People's Party, we will be following this, this law, in a very thorough manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr Ivan Grill could have the word, but he is not in the hall right now, so Mr Franz Bogovich has the word. Excuse me? Just a moment. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u34	I'd love to talk to you if you'd give me time, but we've already spent it in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u35	Yeah, yeah, okay, yeah, no time available. The next debater is Mr Jože Tanko, not in the hall right now. The word could be given by Mr Matevž Frangež, who is also not in the Chamber, so Mrs Romana Tomc has the floor right now. He's quitting. The text may be addressed to the proposer. The government. He wants a word? Yes, Secretary of State, Mrs. Matey Vranic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that I am pleased with today's debate and that it has shown some principled agreement on most of the solutions that the proposal for a law brings. I would particularly like to respond to some specific questions raised in the debate. I will begin on a less-exposed issue of powers. In fact, the Financial Administration Act introduces the powers that the tax administration and, on the other hand, the customs administration have so far enjoyed at one stage. In particular, in the case of the customs administration, due to the specificity of the part of customs workers in the field, it is necessary to examine the goods covered by certain specific powers. These powers relate, on the one hand, to the collection of duties and also to other tasks to be performed by the customs service, for example in the area of control of illicit drug trafficking. In view of the fact that all these tasks will be transferred to the Financial Administration in the future, the Financial Administration Act also sets out in detail these powers for future servants of the Financial Administration. Of course, this does not mean that all employees of the financial administration will have the same powers and that, for example, weapons will go around Slovenia. No, no, no. The act on internal systemisation and job creation will specify where these powers and these additional resources can be used. People in these jobs will therefore be specially trained. It is not intended to extend the scope of these powers in any way in the light of the powers already conferred on individual staff. This does not mean a quiet establishment of the financial police, which was mentioned in the debate, but is essentially about preserving the possibility that employees of the future financial administration will maintain the possibility of doing what they have had so far. In the financial consequences of the bill, we have highlighted in particular the costs, direct costs that will arise in connection with mergers and are linked to the harmonisation of information systems between the current tax and customs services and the unification of certain solutions that the new service needs. Here all information solutions, as has been developed so far, remain in force, for example in the area of electronic monitoring of tax procedures, the so-called eDIS, as well as in the customs field or in excise duties. In particular, the excise and customs systems continue to be integrated into European information solutions, as well as the tax information system in the work relating to the exchange of tax data and the exchange of VAT liability data are linked to European information solutions. What needs to be consolidated needs to be consolidated in the essence of a purely organisational, informational solution between the two services. When will these expenses be reimbursed? It is difficult to quantify financially all the advantages that future financial management will have. The combined operation of both services in the last four months shows in essence the positive effects and additional revenue collected, within four months in the areas of four activities € 4.6 million of the additional value added tax. Of course, we are talking only about one segment of tax and customs activity, which has been the most visible to the public in the last four months. More, let's say, and the daily work on inspection controls remains hidden to the eyes as regards the identification of the so-called tax gap and the identification of the unjustified transfer of funds into tax havens. Finally, I would like to respond to the issue of regionalisation or regional organisation of future financial management. Many Members touched on the regulation on regional organisation of financial administration in their debate. Here let me draw attention to the fact that the solutions that we have included in the proposal for a law have to be based on the system regime of the state administration, where we have coordinated solutions with the Ministry of the Interior and have to follow the solution that the regional organisation of the service should be determined by a government regulation and not by law itself. Finally, it should be borne in mind that such arrangements are already in force today, under the Tax Service Act or the Customs Service Act. Why has the regulation not already been tabled together with other sub-legislative acts before the draft law? The 100th paragraph of the draft law, which essentially introduces a transitional period, should also be taken into account. The whole system of mergers is created by bringing the general tax and general customs office together within a period of four months after the adoption of the law in the National Assembly into the Single General Finance Office of the Republic of Slovenia, while regional organisation remains unchanged at the level of the tax or customs offices. The new management of the financial management is required to prepare further procedures and systematisation of jobs for the regional organisation of future financial management in the period from 1 January 2015. Until then, they shall remain both tax and customs offices, as organised by the current organisation, essentially in force. It is necessary to separate the proposal for a regulation last year in public treatment and the procedure has not been completed. These were two regulations that spoke on the one hand about the establishment of tax offices or customs offices. The majority of Members referred to this Regulation. These are regulations prepared under the applicable tax administration law or customs service law. We have not yet prepared a regulation on the basis of this law, because we have been preparing, at this point, those sub-legislative acts which must be adopted immediately or practically at the same time as the law itself has been enacted. As a result, solutions to the regional organisation of future financial administrations remain open. However, we will also present specific data or figures, indicating the uneven burden of individual organisational units, in the context of the second reading of this proposal, indicating the non-economic organisation in the current scope of the organisation and presenting what this point would mean for the proposed transformation, which, as it is said, is also a matter of further negotiation or discussion. Even today, we can say that the tax and customs offices are not entirely organised in accordance with administrative units or with the envisaged future administrative boundaries. It is a question of where the actual presence of the tax office or customs office is necessary, and where those needs that exist locally can be met by tax or customs exposure. On the one hand, we must take into account that the way in which the debtors operate is changing, that they are increasingly using modern information channels, but we also want to ensure physical presence at local level, and this can be ensured either through the tax and customs offices either through exhibitions or through offices. Last but not least, the analysis of the functioning of tax offices at this time shows that there are between 5 and 10 daily visits at each tax facility, which justifies the organisation in the form it is set up. Full horizontal links with future administrative boundaries, I do not think it is expected, because the need for a tax or customs office to be present is quite different from the need for other administrative tasks. And I think it is really necessary to look at the data here further and to assess rationally, on the basis of the data, what is appropriate in terms of efficiency or cost-effectiveness of the use of public funds. Why is there a fiscal investigation in the bill? The fiscal investigation is a kind of special mandate given to tax or customs officials and, in our opinion, it is a law governing the organisation and powers of financial administration, not a law governing the tax procedure. Thank you very much for the warning on editorial error in Article 108. We will try to agree that the second-reading amendment will remove this deficiency. As regards the comment on the amount of revenue collected in 2013, it is likely that this lower revenue collection cannot be attributed to the inefficiency of the tax or customs administration, but also to some other indicators which have proved less favourable than those taken into account when planning revenue with a budget rebalancing. In short, I find this first reading useful. I expect that we will continue in the same way in the second reading, and I predict that for the second reading we will provide more detailed information on the current regional organisation, including the implications of the thoughts we have at the Ministry regarding future organisation. However, it is certainly not our intention to hide anything, but simply in view of the way the debate is going on, our assessment was that things that will be dealt with subsequently, in an additional almost one-year transitional period, should be conceived or completed further, and that there is no point at this point in overheating situations or discussions with some preliminary proposals for solutions that we are thinking about, but are not yet fully coordinated or agreed upon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u37	Thank you very much. I note that all the debaters who wanted to discuss have been given the floor. However, since we still have time, I ask if anyone else would like to discuss it. More. I'll give you a chance to sign up. I'm opening the application. Here you go. We have four other panellists registered. First Mrs. Romana Tomc. We'll put you on the list, not a problem, Mr. Lisec. [[…]] Here you go, Mrs. Romana.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u38	Thank you very much again. Thank you, too, for all the explanations that have now been presented to us by the Secretary of State, especially with regard to regional organisation and the missing regulation of this law. However, I do not agree with this explanation that Article 100 and the transitional provision make it possible for the law not to submit all the sub-laws which are otherwise prescribed as a necessary annex to a law. Relativizing a problem in this way also seems a little underestimating to me. See, talk now about another additional, one-year transition period, and about practically the most important or very important content of this law will be or will you decide once in a while. Right now, we're only going to do one merger at the level of the General Office, and everything else follows later. Then why do we need many millions of euros to do this? The Regulation governing the uniforms to be worn by staff members at the Financial Office is set out in the Annex. Let me remind you of something else, but you weren't careful enough to write these laws, one of the regulations has a day in force. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So you can probably check everything you need once again to make sure that the law as well as the submarital acts are written more carefully. Of course, this is a key issue for us. We want to know in advance. It may be that what will be said in the regulation is the subject of discussion and will be the subject of discussion, but you just have to somehow satisfy us with the answer that this is a completely irrelevant thing at this point. It is very important, practically, if not for all Members in this National Assembly, but for at least 90% of them coming from local backgrounds and they are still interested in how the financial administration in their area will be organised. Once again, I stress that we do not wish to object to rationalisation being done in this area. We are aware that it will be necessary, but we do not want to be misled and that it is hidden from us. So much for now, and thank you so much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Bogovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello again. I think it is absolutely essential that we call again and also make clear our position on this law now that we have the first hearing and the opportunity for the solutions mentioned to be corrected, to be reconsidered, to be improved. I must say that, basically, as we have all said, and I think there is no distinction here between the parliamentary groups, that we support the fact that the financial and customs administration and the staff of these two administrations unite under the same roof and that an effective state authority is made, with which we will address this great problem, in order to secure substantially less tax revenue than we could if these services were to operate more effectively. So far, well and well, I think that we have, in this country and also in words, a respected secretary, who you finally gave in your explanation, when you spoke about organisation in this Regulation, about the importance of horizontal links, but they show that we have very different views in this country, about how the country needs to be well organised and when the country will be effective. We've already talked about SDK today. I was also an employer myself, and we gave 20 people a job at our company. I know exactly how to get to SDK with payment orders, in six days, if you didn't have the money in your account, you were blocked, not even the slightest chance of paying the net salary next month, what's going on today. Comrade Visjak spoke of horizontal connections. Sam was part of such a horizontal connection when he controlled me as a work inspector. At the time when I was an entrepreneur myself, I remember this visit. And then, at the horizontal level, the inspectors cooperated with each other, they knew how to sit together, the market inspector, the environmental inspector, I don't know, the tax office, and those who break the laws were organised. Today, from what you have told the secretary, this spirit, which has literally broken down the administration in the country, that the Minister, who is at the summit, is responsible and under his command to use this ugly term, must all work down, and God forbid that someone from another ministry is involved in his work. This speaks of a classic centralist state and it repeats it from law to law. You're the one who referred to the administration arrangements. As far as I know, the Minister has already submitted a proposal to the Government in December, which he did not go through, I hear that there is no such thing in the coalition contract. You refer to something that is not, something that someone imagines, and thinks that maybe it will, which is not consistent with anything else. Thus, in this country, from law to law, each one of us breaks down according to this state's administrative system, and this country is being demolished. And when we talked here, but the pond fund doesn't work well, it's in the Ribnica, but why shouldn't something in Kočev be united in this area when the whole place is in one such depression and there are simply no jobs. In the east, where we have in Posavje, in Brežice, customs and tax office, where it says that the Novoměsts will do it better for us. What happened at the police department, which was forcibly relocated from Krske to Novo Mesto. People drive. As long as they drive, the country will have more expensive travel costs. In Krske, the buildings built by the congregation in the past were transferred to the country under some arrangements, and now they are houses of fear. An unsustainable approach to what kind of country we want to have. That is why I think it is underestimating, as Mrs Tomc has said, that we will give it to someone, but in one year he will settle the matter. We spoke in a similar way, colleagues and colleagues, in November, last December, to a bad bank about these things. We'll give someone something, God forbid anyone knows anything about it, tax confidentiality itself. There we wonder whether someone there, under our remit to pay 20 to 40 thousand euros from four times three to four times as much as the Prime Minister has, at least once more manages this property and allows a tycoon to legalise it. Here we give again to someone who, on behalf of the State, will be a director of a joint office. But we are not Members here in this house to say that we will assess on your proposals whether this is right or wrong, and we know what country we will live in. And for God's sake, let's stop pretending, and not from law to law, simply dismantle the countries to the prefects that the living God can no longer put together. And this is a classic example of one approach, after which you will find out sooner or later, I do not know that it is best that everything is in Ljubljana. Instead of having some logic of polycentric development, which has been well established in the 1970s and has been completely decomposed in these 40 years. Think about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mag. Ivan Vogrin has your word, you've signed up.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues, distinguished ladies and gentlemen from the Ministry. I think, in principle, the idea of getting together is right. It only bothers a few things. Now we're going on a case-by-case basis, imagine that we have Gorenje from Velenje, who lost a large German buyer who takes 30% of the production, and this sale of Gorenje is no substitute, failed to replace it on any foreign market. And now imagine that Gorenje from Velenje would keep the same volume of employees. Is that possible?Oh, my God! It's not possible. The company would go bankrupt within six months. A lot of companies did. If we translate this into the example that we are talking about – I see that the president has already gotten used to me talking about the subject just a little bit from another point of view – let us now translate this into a concrete example. We've lost all customs control of the border, but all the customs officers are left. Here's the problem with this country. I don't say, and I don't want the bad guys to have to throw them on the road, but the fact is that we should, in addition to all the good that we do, bring together the customs and tax administration, of course a large part of the staff to forgive, rationalize, reduce. Sorry, that's right. That's how it is in the economy, so it should be in the state administration. There's too many of us. There are too many Members of Parliament, after all comparative analyses, there should be 50 Members. I am aware of this, and I hope that the next Parliament, if not this one, will adopt the law and will reduce itself, because Austria has 22 members per million and Slovenia has 45. You know, there are these problems, these are major structural problems. We listen here to the eulogy that we have to make structural changes, and then we do nothing. And that's why we have problems. I just had a problem with the company because I didn't structurally change the company. These are personal experiences, you know, and here we should do the same. In principle, however, the bill is a good proposal only if you take into account the well-intentioned comments of one party or Members, who see that they have been thoroughly taught the content of the law and, of course, take them into account. Nor is the way that we rationalise the new financial administration in such a way that we eliminate local exposure is wrong. This is about the kind of approach that the Minister of the Interior has in order to rationalise local self-government by deleting 110 municipalities. This is a pure bureaucratic approach, because we, on the other hand, are making it more expensive and especially for people, because we are here because of people, making it difficult. I'll tell you in concrete terms. In Lenart, there are quite a few craftsmen, entrepreneurs, and people live. And now this poor mommy is going to be 50, 60, 70 years old. Do you know where the tax is? In Maribor. In Maribor. Because she got one letter, she doesn't even know what that means and so on. You know, otherwise we should go on, of course not centralising everything, because it brings on the other side severe negative effects. Otherwise, I support the proposal, but only here should there be about a million financial implications for the budget, another section, two pages, how much will we save on the other hand, because we will rationalise. It's not like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrei Shircelj, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u44	Thank you very much. I must say that I am concerned about the explanations given by Mrs Mateja Vranič, Secretary of State. I became even more concerned than I was about financial management. In fact, first, if we accept that there will be a one-year transition period, we don't really know why. But the second is that it will only start to see what individual efforts are like in individual jobs, on individual tax administrations, what is the burden of people, how much work they have to do here, how much work they have to do there and so on. On this basis, it will be determined what will be the location of tax administrations. In fact, you have said that an analysis will be carried out on the burden of individual tax administrations. Where is this analysis? This analysis should have been done a long time ago. But if it's made, then introduce it to the National Assembly. But with the first reading, when it begins, there is a public debate and Members and Members of Parliament have the right to know. That's why my conclusion, the previous conclusion, is that either something is being hidden or the coalition is not being coordinated about it, but I think it confirms it if you have it done, as you say. Then don't say you're going to introduce something. Present what you actually have and present a regulation with financial administrations and how many we will actually have. Just to find out where and how jobs are going to be. The second thing I am very pleased to hear is that, after all, the whole opposition has pointed out at the 2014 budget, 2015 budget, that the reasons why the tax administration has collected less money not in the tax administration, not in the tax administration, but because other indicators have proved to be "less favourable than they were planned in the 2014 and 2015 budget", I quote. That's what you said, Madam Secretary of State. Other indicators were less favourable than you planned. And already we have warned you that the corporate income tax will bring half of what you have planned to make a lower income, that the budget for 2014 and 2015 is unrealistic. Two, three months ago, you were saying something completely different. And now you have a budget for 2014 and 2015 actually unrealistic. And I ask you to tell me when we are going to see the balance of this budget, because, as you said, the tax administration has done its job well. But today we have an extra debt. We can't do this. The minister's been in America for 10 days, and he can't be indebted. Tell us, we will also consider this today, at what interest rates. Question three, I'm interested in changes in the pay system. Here we have Article 109, where we have 25 jobs that will be renamed from one to the other. According to IAPES, Durs has 2 000 300 employees and spends a month on salaries of 3 million 900. CURS employs a thousand 362 workers and spends 2 million 480 000 euros. That's the difference. CURS has higher wages. How are you going to even those wages? Is this in line with the union of state authorities? What's the payoff going to be? What financial impact will this salary gap have? And in fact, do people know today, you say you have all the research, you say you have all the analysis, where they're going to work, where they're going to work, and, of course, where they're going to work? Because if you have this, then you have to have this item for 3,000 662 people. And you say you have an analysis and I would like to see it because Members have a right to know.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u45	Thank you very much. And Mr. Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u46	Thank you. Nice greetings for me, too. As early as the morning, we had on one of the boards a law on state administration, where representatives of the government said that now that the reorganisation would be much better. And the same is true of this marriage. However, it is a fact that this merger between the tax and customs administration is not a hero who would not support it, because the starting point is well established, but as always the problem of theory and practice. The devil is in detail. In short, we are particularly concerned with the reorganization of the functioning of the tax and customs administration. Maybe there's a line to this first. The fact is that we have 12 statistical and development regions in Slovenia. Unfortunately, in this mandate of this government, almost every law or in every field, we are faced with a number of different institutions, how many we would have and how many we have. We have already lost in the previous governments of the police administration, there have been requests for changes in the geodetic administration, maternity wards, the abolition of municipalities, banks, inspections, administrative districts, and I have probably forgotten something else. In short, there is something going on, and the problem is analysis or the concept of what we want to do and how we do it. The fact that we are changing something in every area because a minister or a secretary of state wants something, probably on the basis of certain pressures, is not some serious analysis that members of the National Assembly would like us to make on this basis. However, the fact that when something is removed, it is reorganised, it is clear from the very practical grounds that some concept of how this government works is, that something is alienated and distanced from people, and then on the other hand they are bragging about how much we have saved. We didn't save anything if we gave people longer waiting periods, higher transportation costs, and I don't know what. Maybe a few phrases about the financial implications. This million of you are probably a little bit on your finger to need, to calculate, and what the chances of this law would be, you didn't have the courage to write it down. However, something in terms of rationalisation costs what it costs, in the end, taxpayers will have to drive to other places or pay for it all. I was also a little bit stung when one of the predecessors said, "Caesar, what is Caesar's." This government is a very great emperor and very much sings. And given that we are in the field of taxes, new taxes, more avoidance, so the new financial administration will have more than enough work, because there are new and higher taxes almost every week consequences in this government. However, the fact is that employees in the new financial administration will not have enough work to do their job is likely to have too little work. Above all, I'm talking about the stimulations here, because from the area where I come myself, I have quite a few colleagues who have been employed on the customs administration or are still employed, and it's sad that a lot of them say how am I supposed to do something for those 700 euros if they give me only 10% of the stimulation I would do more? We are already putting huge amounts into the state budget for our 700 euros salary if we were to be stimulated at least a little bit, we would get a lot more, but this government is closing down the tentacles. On the other hand, there's a fact. New taxes are due to new laws, new laws bring new tasks. But the problem is that there are practical problems. The problem is that, despite the best of will and also the education of individual tax advisers, legislation has changed so much this year that they do not even know what to do or how to do. Just yesterday, I was talking to a colleague who's been working on buying a plot. One who hopes he can live on his own someday. Three times he was on the tax board, four different answers, two papers he had to bring back, then they got one wrong, then he had to bring two new papers and so on. In short, some new solutions to various laws, which pose major problems for Slovenian taxpayers or citizens, and especially problems for those who should help solve them, not create new things. Indeed, I, the representatives of the ministry, hope that you will be more active in the area of financial investigation in relation to Article 99, and above all really, once again, read what you wrote in paragraphs 9 and 100 on the regulation, what will happen when it happens. I won't press the vote for it, because then you'll take us across the water. In short, first tell us what you want and then expect us to do. [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u47	Thank you very much. A representative of the Government also took the floor, but not in the sharing of time, but I do not have a problem with it, but I ask if anyone expressly opposes the fact that we also give the word to the representative of the Government. If not, then choose, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Just briefly answer the questions again or the additional questions raised. Yeah, article 109 is in line with the unions. 109. Article 109 of the bill does not mean anything other than determining in which wage class, according to the collective agreement, is classified as one of the newly established terms, in view of the fact that in essence the employees know exactly if they have so far been customs payees or recoverers, how they will be dealt with by the new when they are called financial recoverers. Just as an example. And this definition of new job titles does not mean any change in their financial position or has no further implications. Once again, as regards the financial effects or collection of taxes collected in 2013. I was talking about the tax revenue for 2013 and the circumstances in which the 2013 budget rebalancing was being prepared. I did not discuss the budget for 2014 or the budget for 2015. And with regard to regionalisation of the analysis of the burden of tax offices and the analysis of the efficiency of tax offices, they are ready. The analyses are extensive and, as I mentioned, we will also provide them as additional material to the National Assembly, so that further discussions on the potential regionalisation can take place on the basis of concrete figures. However, I did not specifically stress in my first intervention, but I think it is important to say that even if one of the existing tax or customs offices were to be merged with another tax or customs office, this does not mean that the tax or customs officials in that area or in that place would no longer be present. This also does not prevent a solution that some Members have pointed out to be created by so-called competent centres, where knowledge is concentrated in a particular area and they perform decentralised tasks for the entire territory of the Republic of Slovenia. These options are also open. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mrs Romana Tomc has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u50	Thank you very much. I will, however, make a procedural proposal. However, we did not object to the fact that the Secretary of State still had a final word, although this is somehow not in line with the Rules of Procedure, because we hoped that we would get credible answers in this last attempt. Unfortunately, we didn't. The Secretary of State has not answered our key question, nor has it been asked about the financial impact of the payments made by employees. In addition, the Secretary of State, if I have the right material in front of me, has somehow seduced us by the statement that you are in line with the unions. It says here that there remains a key open case with the union's permanent allowance. I hope you've arranged this, but otherwise it's not the right material. Now, we've already found a number of flaws in this material. I guess that's not true either. We don't have any tests. Yes, I ask you to take this opportunity and this time during this debate in the National Assembly and the hearing on the parental committee to prepare the material as it is, and, of course, to present in addition to the material all the relevant analyses to which you now refer and, as has been said several times before, the regulation which must be a mandatory annex to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Nor was this a procedural proposal in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide on Tuesday, 4 February 2014, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. Agenda item – Proposal for a Slovenian State Holding Act, first defence. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of 26 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Here you go, Mr. Mavko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! You have before you a proposal for a new law on the Slovenian State Holding, proposed by the Government for adoption. The reason why the Government is proposing a new law is mainly because the existing law has not come to life. At the same time, the Government is proposing some new solutions, which have proved to be poorly defined in the existing law. The key objectives of the new law before you today are as follows. Disengagement of the function of the State as the owner of capital investments from other functions of the State. The second objective pursued by the proposal for a law is to centralise the management of all the investments of the Republic of Slovenia in order to achieve stable ownership, reduce management costs, increase profitability and value of investments, while ensuring a clear division of powers and responsibilities regarding the management of state assets. The draft law also aims to ensure transparency in the management of the country's capital investments. Particular attention is paid to reducing the impact of stakeholders, political groups and corruption risks and conflicts of interest. To this end, a chapter in the law is specifically elaborated. We consider this to be one of the essential elements that strengthen the existing law. As mentioned above, the draft law provides for the centralisation of State investment management in a way that transforms the Slovenian Compensation Company into a Slovenian State holding company on the date of the entry into force of this Act and the Slovenian State holding company shall continue to manage the entire property of the State which is in its direct or direct ownership. Unlike the current law, with a view to facilitating the adoption of a strategy in the proposal for a new law, the types of investments already owned by the State are already mentioned, either directly or indirectly. The draft law defines so-called strategic investments, with these countries in addition to the economic achievement of certain strategic objectives. The proposal defines important investments as the second category. With these, the country wants to preserve key development factors in Slovenia. And the third set of investments is so-called portfolio investments with which the country achieves exclusively economic objectives. With the proposal for a law, we want to achieve a robust system of governance of state property in a way that is clear about who manages it and how it is managed. In the area of who manages it, particular emphasis should be placed on the way in which those responsible for the management of State property are appointed. The law strengthens the way it is called the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding, how the procedures for the selection of the administration of the Slovenian State Holding are carried out and, finally, it is specified how the Slovenian State Holding then appoints those responsible for the management of the companies under its intervention. In addition, to ensure and strengthen democratic control over the operation of SDH in the draft law, we introduce the so-called Economic and Social Expert Committee, which consists of seven representatives of trade unions. The meeting of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding Board may be attended by both the Minister of Finance and the President of the Commission of the National Assembly for the supervision of public finances, without the possibility of voting, but in the monitoring function. The bill extends the jurisdiction of the Court of Auditors to companies where SDH has a directly or indirectly dominant share of voting rights. The SDH bill also reports to the National Assembly once a year. As mentioned above, we believe that the proposals of the law are being implemented by a stable system of governance of state property, which should not be exchanged with any government. The system shall be implemented in a manner that will ensure effective management of assets where the State retains ownership and professionally managed privatisation procedures where the strategy foresees resale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u53	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ivan Hršak will be the first to present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go, Mr. Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u54	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State with a colleague, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The first reading or general discussion of the law does not mean anything decisive. In the next stages, we will be able to change the text, so we hope at least in DesSus. The modification of the bill is certainly necessary, since the text as it is is is not acceptable for all coalition partners. Let me remind you that to date no coalition coordination has yet been carried out. Only promises have been made, but nothing has been realized. Although today is not Day D on the fate of the Slovenian State Holding Act. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, however, we were really looking forward to coordination before this first hearing, at least once before the coalition rethoughts the key open points in the law together and that at least in the framework of an agreement on which direction and where the correction of the proposals will go in the next process. The law could also be harmonised before parliamentary treatment as to what the profession and the social partners say about it. In view of this, it has been entirely reasonable to believe that the coalition is not harmonised in the case of this law. Yes, unfortunately, we are not yet in line, but the fault is not on DeSUS, because we are not the ruling coalition party that has the first power to dictate the way and the pace of work in the legislative procedure. In view of these facts, it is probably not too much to express the fear that the further procedure for the adoption of the law will be rather quick to do so. What does that mean and where it takes us, we know. The DeSUS Group has quite a delayed opinion on the content of the new Slovenian State Holding Act. The final support will, of course, depend on the harmonisation or convergence of the views of the proposed law and other parliamentary groups with the views and requirements of the DeSUS Group on the individual content points of the law. As the biggest disadvantage of this law vis-à-vis the existing or unacceptable for DeSUS, the point concerning the Capital Society for Pension and Disability Insurance, its assets and the relationship between holding and holding company is certainly the point. We will absolutely insist in DeSUS that the law continues to provide that the Capital Society remains completely separate from its least-existing property, which must be managed by itself. We simply insist on this because we want to preserve and respect the purpose of the Capital Society. This is to ensure the long-term financial sustainability of the pension fund and thus the security and stability of current and future pensions. As a single legal person or a legal and organisational sovereign legal person with its own management and control authorities, KAD may provide adequate management of the assets intended to ensure the long-term sustainability of the pension system. The relevant composition of the Supervisory Board and the independent administration can actually manage the assets that are intended to co-finance the pension fund and actually keep an eye on the purposeful use of the funds. It is only acceptable for us to maintain from the existing law a provision on the obligation of the Capital Society to regularly pay 50 million per year to the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, which is intended to harmonise the pension. Furthermore, we are convinced that it is important for the sustainability and stability of the pension fund to be passed on to the new law, which provides that 10% of the purchases from the sale of SDH or state property are transferred to the pension fund. In these last few years, since 2010, since the reconciliation of pensions has been severely defiled or not at all, 50 million or a proportional balance has been applied after harmonisation to the current needs of the pension fund, which are otherwise to be covered by the State or the budget, in so far as the contribution manoeuvre is shown. This obligation of the State at annual level amounts to around 1.5 billion. Given that at least we have kept pensions at a level, so we have not allowed them to be reduced, non-coordinated pensions are contributions made by pensioners to rescue them from the crisis, of course in addition to the abolition or reduction of the annual allowance. In the DeSUS Group, we advocate that part of the state property continue to be exclusively intended to provide long-term needs of the pension fund and that it is also fed from the so-called state property or from the purchase of its sales. Thus, at least for this part of the purchase, they would know for what purposes this money is spent. If we look at the needs of the pension fund and are aware of the current demographic situation and future demographic changes and, of course, the fact that the pressures on the budget to cover pension deficits are higher from year to year, of course, what we are proposing makes sense. Also due to the crisis and the consequent decrease in inflows to the pension fund, the fall in employment, the unresolved relationship between the pension fund and the budget, the lack of unpaid contributions and the lower rate of employers' contributions, the KAD and the 10% share of purchases from the sale of state assets are essential to compensate for the shortfall in pension funds. But it is, and we are well aware of this in the Desus Group that this alone cannot solve the problems of the pension fund. In the DeSUS Group, we see a partial solution to these problems in the establishment of a demographic reserve fund, which is already envisaged by the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. We must establish it by the end of this year. According to our assessment, it would be easier to transform the Capital Society into this fund, since the mission of the KAD is actually very close to the purpose of the demographic reserve fund, that is to provide additional resources for the financing of the first pension pillar in the event that the changed demographic and economic situation makes the resources from the contributions from general taxes no longer sufficient. Of course, the most difficult task will be to obtain resources to finance it. As one of the possible sources in our delegation group, the DeSUS Group, we see in additional sources of implementation or availability of SDH and Republic of Slovenia investments. Next. DeSUS opposes the transfer of the assets of PPIZ, which it has in the Insurance Company Triglav, to SDH, despite the fact that the proposal does speak of a transfer against payment of a fair compensation. Not only would this one-off payment of €350 million at the rate of the circus only contribute in the short term and minimally to the muzzling of the hole in the pension register, but such a manoeuvre would completely eliminate the purpose of the use of these funds, which the Property Change Act has laid down exclusively for the provision of additional funds for compulsory pension and disability insurance, i.e. for the pensions of current and future pensioners. This forced sale of the insurance company would lose its own, additional source of funding. This investment was not intended for immediate consumption, nor was it intended for a fair compensation. It was intended to provide dividends in the long term. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we will therefore by no means allow the destruction of that little spare property from the state, which is intended to support pensions. We will not allow these funds to cover any other obligations arising from bank holes and tycoon stories, obligations to denationalising beneficiaries or to support over-inflated or over-industry or even unnecessary projects. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we are aware that the management of state property in the past has been poor and irresponsible, that the attempts to improve it have not yet produced fruit and that further delay in the establishment of an appropriate and effective regime has only caused greater damage to the state, economy and citizens of this country. We agree that order should be put in place as soon as possible in the management and establishment of a uniform governance regime, as fragmentation is poor efficiency. However, it is not necessary for the Capital Society to fall under centralised management, because, as has already been said, we believe in the transformation of Kad into a demographic fund, so that the KAD should remain excluded from the Slovenian State holding company for the time being. What I have discussed most of the time in our position is a key issue in the bill to which the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia comments. There's still a few little things we're going to try to save the coalition. Once again, I stress that we expect the possibility of facing coalition partners and harmonising the law to be given. But there is another, and for us too, a very important and very exciting issue in this bill. It is a policy of the remuneration of the management bodies of companies carried out by the Slovenian State Holding and let me say briefly that it is unacceptable for us to be able to release managers' salaries now, still during the economic crisis, in state-owned enterprises. In particular, this is unacceptable, in fact distasteful, because it has recently been opposed to raising minimum wages or even proposing a reduction. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we will support the law at first reading. But we have a difficult trial ahead of us in the next stage when we coordinate the law coalitionly. Of course, our continued support for the law depends on what happens at the next reading of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u55	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State with a colleague, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! New Slovenia – Christian Democrats are extremely disappointed with matter, over the new Slovenian State Holding Act that we have before us. The content and address are not consistent, the legal text is not coalitionly coordinated, despite the fact that this government has been in power for almost a year. This is how this government sees management of state property that is not owned by this government, but is owned by 2 million citizens. Exquisitely. And it's not even about holding, because holding won't be owned, it won't be the owner of the property. The property remains owned by the Republic of Slovenia, so we say that the text and address do not go together. Those who have completed their first year of secondary economic school know that holding per definition is an economic company that controls other companies due to its investment in their equity. So we won't have a holding company if this text is adopted, we'll have a larger AUKN 2. The explanation of the bill states that the management of state investments during a permanent transitional period has been explained since the adoption of the amendment to the Capital Investment Management Act C. This is true, but it is necessary to clarify what is the cause of this situation. It is true that the current government has not implemented, does not implement, because it has no interest and has no interest in it. The transitional period was extended solely for reasons of non-compliance with and non-implementation of the current Slovenian State Holding Act. It is further stated in the draft law that the Slovenian State Investment Management Holding Act did not resolve State investment management, as it was based on the transfer of the investment of the Republic of Slovenia to holding, which proved to be controversial, unacceptable and impractical in practice, the applicant states. This is not true, since the Slovenian State Holding Act was in force in line with the OECD guidelines and in practice feasible only if the present government had the will to do so. As we read further in the explanation of the bill, the essence of the new concept of governance with state property is to separate ownership from management function. Capital investments remain owned by the Republic of Slovenia and the management of this property is concentrated in the Slovenian State Holding Company, which means, in other words, that the becoming the Slovenian State Holding Agency of the new AUKN – the Capital Investment Management Agency, despite the fact that we have almost unanimously observed some time ago that the management of capital investments through the AUKN has not produced real financial results. The new law therefore means a return to the old concept of managing capital investments owned by a country that has already been tested ineffective. SDH will not manage all state-owned capital investments, excluding capital investments in international financial institutions, in companies operating public economic services by distribution of the natural gas system operator, electricity, to organise this electricity market and to invest in the Banks Claims Management Company. The reasons for such exemptions are that, according to the applicant, an international contract, a European directive and a regulation has been adopted and the specificity of capital investments has been adopted for the Bank's Claims Management Company. The first reason for excluding the country's energy-based capital investments is, in our firm belief, due to the pressures of the various lobbying that control the field of energy and thus avoid any control over their operations. However, the exceptions listed by law do not contribute to the uniform management of state capital investments, which should be one of the priority objectives and purpose of the adopted law. We also find the financing arrangements of the Slovenian State Holding company quite unusual. The draft law provides for a contract between the Slovenian State Holding and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to be concluded with regard to the financing of the Slovenian State Holding Company. In view of the fact that the budget for 2014 and 2015 adopted for the purpose of financing SDH is not without funds or that it may charge or manage management costs to entities in which the State has a capital investment. With regard to the authorities of the Slovenian State Holding and their powers, they would specifically point out the composition of the Supervisory Board, which, following the current proposal for a law, substantially deviates from the composition of the Supervisory Board as set out in the law currently in force. There is no guarantee in the new supervisory council that the representative of the opposition is represented as regulated by the law currently in force. Although it was precisely the Prime Minister of the Government who, at the time of the preparation and adoption of the current Act on Slovenian State Holding, strongly advocated that the opposition should be represented in the supervisory council. Clearly, however, the position now that the ruling coalition of the Prime Minister of the Government has suddenly changed. Thus, the principle of this coalition, or government, is applied — parts and rulership. Christian Democrats believe that the solution to the current Slovenian State Holding Act is adequate and only correct. The opposition can play a control role in the management of state assets. Above all, the concept of the law seems controversial to us that in managing capital investments owned by the Republic of Slovenia, the function of the National Assembly is minimised to decide on the Government's already prepared proposals on the strategy for the appointment and discharge of the Supervisory Board and the consideration of the annual reports of the Slovenian State Holding Board, without having an impact on the content of the strategy. That seems a little controversial to us. The proposal for the Slovenian State Holding Act is weak, nonconsistent and unnecessary. We have a valid Law on Slovenian State Holding. Above all, the adoption of new legislation is a poor signal to international and financial markets, and in particular to potential investors regarding the stability of the business environment in our country. Therefore, Members of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will not be supported. Slovenia also remains a hermetically closed country for foreign investors following this proposal of the Slovenian State Holding Act. In a way, I feel for the Minister of Finance, when he met with the opposition to represent the principles of this new law, he only finally admitted that he would rather work on the already existing Law on Slovenian State Holding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u57	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia Mr Brane Golubović.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u58	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Prime Minister, representatives of the Ministry, welcome! Today, when we discuss the Slovenian State Holding Act at first reading, it is worth noting, however, the long way of adopting this law. The Slovenian State Holding Act has already been passed by the previous coalition, but in practice the law has never come to life. At the same time, with the passed law proposed by the government of Janez Janša, we have also abolished the AUKN. So we now have status quo in the area of state property management. In a way, a vacuum where you don't know who, what, why. It should also be said that in positive Slovenia we have already proposed a law on the management of the country's capital investments as an opposition party in 2012 and have also put it into the legislative process following a regular procedure. The fact is, and this has been repeatedly said that in Positive Slovenia we were not satisfied with the work of the AUKN so far, because we considered that the then government, despite its sincere intentions and desire to prevent imprudent and lobbyist hunters from cohesively managing the state property that we have witnessed since Slovenia's entry into the European Union, underestimated the difficulty of transferring the management role from the government or the competent ministries to the AUKN. However, it must be acknowledged that this was the first serious attempt to pool all state property in one place. The work of the AUKN showed that it was also involved in the work of administrations past the control councils, and that the agency has become a remote centre, a power centre and thus an even easier prey for various interests, lobbying and politics. The previous proposal by the former Minister of Economy, who proposed the dismissal of members of the Agency's administration because of alleged corruption, is also confirmed. The former Prime Minister of the Government also notified the Agency to the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, which was why our fundamental objective was to decide, on the basis of a broad public debate, to pool all state assets under one roof and to ensure transparent governance and control of governance, thereby preventing different stakeholders from having an impact on state property. At that time, the ruling coalition of our marriage did not support him and rejected him on his mother’s work force and went to accept his marriage. However, the government, the then government, because of the political crisis that was triggered by the then President of the Government, Janez Janša, with the announcement of a vote of confidence, has prevented the adoption, in our opinion, of a law that has not been drafted. Thus, we all gained additional time and a new opportunity together. That is also what the then government learned. At the invitation of the Government of Janez Janša as a constructive opposition, the positive Slovenia participated in the working group of representatives of parliamentary parties and the Government in the summer of 2012 coordinating the text of the Slovenian State Holding Act. The text of the law received many substantive and technical corrections, which satisfactorily solved some of the dilemmas but still large differences remained. Since it was obvious that agreements would probably not have been reached, even if they had continued to be coordinated, a decision had been taken to continue the consideration in the National Assembly or to decide on these open issues. In the debate and in public, Positive Slovenia at that time advocated the need to allow greater participation of the opposition and the social partners in the supervisory authorities, to allow the Court of Auditors to review the information of a public nature, to take into account the Public Procurement Act, to change the decision-making of the Supervisory Board regarding the recapitalisation of existing and potential new purchases of assets and so on. In addition to all of this, the question of the possible unconstitutional nature of the holding was raised because the income of the holding company from the sale of the State's capital investments would not be the revenue of the State budget. For the reason stated in Positive Slovenia in September 2012, we decided not to support the proposal and to apply for the invitation to tender for the subsequent legislative referendum. There was no call for a referendum on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court to have an unconstitutional effect on the referendum. We respected the decision to disagree with her. So, as you can see, our problem with the Slovenian State Holding Act was not a proposed status form for the management of state property in one place, but we differed mainly in how to ensure the greatest possible transparency of governance and control. The law, which came into force at the end of 2012, as I have already said, has never lived in practice. Therefore, when the Government was formed, the Positive Slovenia continued its efforts to enact a law that would allow transparent management of state assets in one place, with the aim of pursuing strategic and economic objectives and maintaining key development factors of the country and effective control of the work of SDH. Let me stress that the purpose of the law is not to sell state property, as some say. The purpose of the Slovenian State Holding is to collect all state property in one place, transparently manage it and ensure control of this management. With regard to coalition coordination, I would like to say that they were — they were normal and they were on the street. One of the parties coordinated through the media and achieved what she wanted. It has achieved that KAD remains a single legal person who will later be transformed into a demographic fund. This is not in line with the Government's wishes, but it was in line with one of the coalition partners, DeSUS. The draft law also includes an article on the annual reporting of SDH to the National Assembly. The most important news is also the addition of an article which provides that employees and representatives of the Council of Workers should be informed in due time in the event of the sale of a majority share. The law will also be subject to the newly adopted Law on Access to Public Information, so that the public will have access to certain data. SDH will be able to supervise the Commission to prevent corruption. One of the most important, however, is the composition of the Supervisory Board, which will be composed of five members on a proposal from the expert commission and will be appointed by the State Council on a proposal from the Government. The expert committee, which will propose members of the Supervisory Board on the basis of strict criteria, will consist of experts with experience from cooperative management, management of human resources resources and the functioning of supervisory boards. In addition, the expert committee shall carry out the procedure for obtaining candidates for members of the Supervisory Board and shall evaluate the candidates and shall finally draw up a proposal for members of the Supervisory Board submitted by the Ministry of Finance. The members of the Supervisory Board must meet conditions such as appropriate work experience, adequate education, professional knowledge and competences, non-conviction, non-compatibilities with a function in a political party, personal integrity, and high business ethics must be a business success and have a reputation in society. Even stricter criteria are set for members of the board. The law also sets out what is important and contributes to the transparency of the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board, that if the Ministry or Government appoints a member of the Supervisory Board or proposes to a member of the Supervisory Board of the National Assembly, which has not been delegated by the expert committee, it must be made public and, of course, it is logical to also justify why it did so. With regard to the Supervisory Council, the solution must also be given to allow the President of the Commission of the National Assembly for the supervision of public finances, which comes from the opposition, to attend its meetings in addition to the Minister. Therefore, the opposition will also have the opportunity to participate in the meetings of the Supervisory Committee, otherwise without the right to vote. You are likely to see how much attention is being paid to the composition of the Supervisory Council, a world which, in my opinion, must play a key role, as it appoints the Administration and then supervises the achievement of our common goals, the objectives of the Republic of Slovenia and thus of all generations. The law, however, introduces a new advisory body on a proposal from trade unions, namely an economic and socio-professional committee composed of representatives of trade unions and has the status of an advisory body of the SDH administration. In addition, the law provides for the supervision of the Court of Auditors. Following the adoption of this law, the Court of Auditors will be able to revise not only HSE but also TES. With these provisions, we have ensured that an effective mechanism for controlling the functioning of SDH is in place through state independent institutions, professions, workers, trade unions and also through the National Assembly and the Government. Basically, and this is extremely important to decide how to manage assets and what can be sold and under what conditions, the adoption of the investment management strategy, proposed by the Government, will be adopted by the National Assembly. Investments are divided into three categories: strategic investments, significant investments, portfolio investments. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the idea of the law is extremely good because it contains very clear provisions on how assets are managed transparently, how SDH works are controlled, how and to whom SDH authorities must report, what conditions the members of the administration and supervisors must meet, how the public participates, how the investment management strategy is adopted and what it should contain. Unfortunately, not everything is in marriage, and unfortunately not everything is in the rules. In the end, the law is enforced by people and if they do not have a sense of responsibility for the common property, to the state, if they do not have high personal integrity and business ethics in addition to, of course, excellent knowledge and experience for the management of businesses, then no, even so well-designed and prepared law will help. It all depends on people, and people are the ones who create the community we live in. And people are also those who create the image and business successes of the company, all employees without exception. The law is highly coordinated. Nevertheless, certain questions remain open and I believe that today we will open up these issues to all, discuss them, hear and listen and try to find optimal solutions. What are the questions that I personally expect us to discuss today? One of the questions is how to establish an active relationship between the so-called bad bank and SDH, which could take over the healthy cores of companies that are at a bad bank. Secondly, the question is whether the transfer of all-owned SDH is good or bad. Now we have a mixed combination. In addition, the largest amount of dust currently raises the area of determining the level of salaries of managers and the way they are rewarded. Personally, I do not see any problems if we tie the highest wage in the company to the lowest or possibly the average wage in the company. Personally, I am committed to establishing the relationship between the highest and lowest wages in the company, which will be appropriate and stimulating in time for both leadership and other employees. I will also listen here to all the arguments of colleagues and colleagues. I would also like to include in this debate the award and associated criteria that will be truly tangible and will be linked, for example, to the increased value of the company or something like that. Motivation is not only important for management personnel, but it is the same if not even more important for all employees in these companies. People have to feel like they belong to the company, they have to see a perspective in the company, because it's the only way they can be active and creative, and they're willing to put up with something for the company's success. If anyone, then the state and SDH must make it possible. All employees are responsible for the success of the company. Of course, I would like to see personally that all employees are rewarded at the same time when they are rewarded with good results. But I am saddened by what we are witnessing in the media, and this is not the direction of Slovenia, when some owners and at the same time managers – the example of the manager of the technology company and the owner – are doing business with profits, but in a kind of negative way stimulate their employees. Such mode of action should be clearly condemned and such mode of action does not fall within SDH. The modern Robin Hoods, who take the poor and give to the rich, are something that Slovenia does not deserve. This is something that is not in accordance with Article 67 of the Constitution, which states that private property in Slovenia also has a social and environmental function. So, colleagues and colleagues, if I conclude, I look forward to the debate that we will be witnessing to her today. Some questions are still open, but I believe that we will hear good arguments and that in the end, in a few weeks when we adopt this law, we will decide for the benefit of all the inhabitants and residents of the Republic of Slovenia who own this state property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Now he's gonna be a magician. Marko Pogačnik presented the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u60	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We are in the first reading of an important law, but the introductory words must be said that the Slovenian State Holding Act is enforced, there is, but the government of Alenka Bratušek does not implement it. I think that the current government is absolutely responsible for not having effective governance of state property for over a year and a half. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we would like to point out that the government of Janez Janša was aware of the responsibilities and importance of this law, that Slovenia finally needed effective management of state property, in particular in order for the assets to be managed centrally, from one place. Since the government of John Janša was aware of the importance of this law, it also invited the opposition of the day to form a law. I personally believe that those working meetings have been very successful and, at the proposal of the opposition, this law has eventually become better, more efficient and more transparent. Soon, however, it turned out to be some duality and double criteria of the opposition, for they quickly collected 30 signatures and submitted a referendum or constitutional opinion. Another major step taken by the current government was about one year ago when the current coalition partners rejected the classification and thus prevented this law from actually being enforced. I personally believe that at the time Slovenia took ten steps back, because Slovenia would have needed this classification at least 20 years ago when privatisation began. However, I believe that everything has been done very projectively and with a specific objective, as this allowed the current coalition to manage state assets in an ad hoc way, to put personal partial interests at the forefront and to continue to break political staffing across state-owned enterprises. For more than a year now, this law cannot be enforced from this title. In fact, it can be that businesses do not do well, that privatisation is being questioned and that certain matters are being resolved in an ad hoc way and that lobbyist interests remain at the forefront. The proposed law, which the current government has sent to the National Assembly – we would like to define, say the position, in the first place it is clear that since the initial proposal, which has been made public, I think that in early September, that the government has taken a few steps forward and that it has taken into account some of the comments that the Slovenian Democratic Party has made publicly available and also told representatives of the Ministry of Finance at certain presentations. However, this law that we have today under consideration, the first general debate, is not acceptable to the Slovenian Democratic Party. I would like to say here below where are our biggest findings before this proposed law. The main issue is that with this proposed law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has fully subordinated itself to holding. She fully subordinated herself to holding with the composition of the Supervisory Board and the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board. The existing law provides for a 5-member supervisory council elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government. And there's not a single representative of the opposition in here. I do not think that the Government can subjugate the holding company in this sense, subordinate the state property, because it is not the property of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but it is the property of all the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia. I have always advocated that the Government is responsible for the management of state property and that it is acceptable that the Government has a majority in the supervisory world. It is absolutely unacceptable, however, for the Slovenian Democratic Party, that members of the opposition, representatives of the opposition in this supervisory council do not have their own representative. Here came one duality and double criteria, as it should be pointed out that the existing law, which was passed at the request of the Government of Janez Janša, has its representative's opposition in the supervisory council. Moreover, the positive Slovenia and then current Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek, as one of the main conditions for the withdrawal of the referendum signatures, made it possible for the opposition to have three representatives in the supervisory council. Now, under the tactics of the government of Alenka Bratušek, you will come to the National Assembly with the composition of the Supervisory Council, where there is no representative of the opposition. We also see a great deal of risk in transferring the ownership of the investments of the Republic of Slovenia. The existing law provides for this transposition. In fact, this would also create a holding company in the right sense. Without the transfer of ownership of the property of the Republic of Slovenia, I think it will be very difficult to talk about holding because I do not know the world of holding company that would be without the owner. There is also a significant risk that this non-proprietary holding will also have adequate capital adequacy and financial stability. On the other hand, when ownership is not transferred, I personally am confident that we will not be able to talk about management anymore, but that we will talk about governance. This is also contrary to the OECD guidelines, as it is likely that the government will end up here saying which investments will be sold and directly involved in SDH decisions. Because I am also personally convinced that regardless of what the representatives of the Ministry of Finance have advocated and what it somehow says in the explanation of this law is that the owner will actually have to sign at the end whether an investment will be sold or not. There will probably be more interesting decisions, different opinions, because there is no doubt that the coalition is very divided in this law. I think it's even more than it happens in the media. Another issue on which we are very concerned in the Slovenian Democratic Party is that, according to the existing proposal, Slovenia or state property will be one more year without an appropriate strategy, as this law provides that the strategy should be adopted within one year in order to make a classification where investments for sale would be classified for non-sales within three months. Once again, this is about duality and double criteria, because when this law was passed on the proposal of the government of Janez Janša, the then opposition, in particular the SD party, objected that we could not accept this holding company or start a holding company without an appropriate strategy. And now this same coalition is extending this hand to adopt the strategy. In doing so, it should be stressed that in the media, some very interesting opinions and statements were made, particularly by the President of the Social Democrats, who said that the existing law prepared by the government of Janez Janša was significantly better than that prepared by the coalition. That gives a lot of things and concerns. There was also a lot of talk about governance and the status of the capital company in the law itself. The law, as it says, the Capital Society is supposed to be independent, but in the SDS we believe that this autonomy is only on paper and that they have satisfied some view of DeSUS. And everyone else is taking Kadu. This law even stipulates that when it comes to managing his property, he should pay some kind of fee for SDH. We're of course [[Incomprehensible]] and we absolutely support that assets are concentrated in one place, because this is a basic condition that state assets can be successfully managed. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are also concerned that this law deletes the provision that 10% of the purchase from the sale of state property should be intended for the sustainability and stability of the pension fund. I think that this was one very good deal between the then coalition and DeSUS, that we are all aware that the pension fund is weak and that it needs to be maintained and that 10% of the purchase is intended for these matters. The problem that we are still seeing is the transfer, as envisaged by this law, of the stake of the Insurance Company Triglav from the ZPIZ to the state holding company. We do not have a problem with this, but we have a problem with the way in which the law itself provides that this proportion should be transferred after a fair compensation. I think there is a great risk that damage will occur in this transfer, or in the PIZ on the one hand, or in the SDH, and that changes should be made here. This law, which is now in the National Assembly, also provides for some derogations from the existing law, which we consider to be weak and entailing a risk of poor governance of state property, namely that this law provides that international accounting standards should apply only to SDH and not to their dependent societies. I think we should consider here a complete case, a complete holding company and their subsidiaries. It is also interesting that in information of a public nature, the current government has taken a step back, as the existing law provides that public information obligations should apply both to holding companies and to their subsidiaries, and now these subsidiaries are being deleted. The Slovenian Democratic Party does not object to the inclusion in the holding, as this is also a good business practice of all financial institutions abroad, of a person who will be responsible for business coherence and integrity. Undoubtedly, however, we stress here that it is likely that this person is working too much in the law itself, because in the end, somehow we will ask ourselves who will lead this holding company at all, whether it will be run by the board and the supervisory board or whether it will be run by an authority in accordance with business. For the law is essentially focused here on the substance of the law, rather than on the administration and the control council. We also assess that this law is, in cases that are not so important, overriding, in matters which are very important for the management of state property, but which are under normal conditions. On conclusion, as the Slovenian Democratic Party's position, we would say that, given all the things that we have now mentioned, to these shortcomings, we will not support the risks that exist that assets will not be managed effectively in the first reading of this proposal. Because we are sure that the existing law is significantly better than the one that is now. On the other hand, we appeal to the coalition, and to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to expect that reason will continue to prevail and that the government of Alenka Bratušek will realize that the holding and management of state property cannot fully substantiate that the assets and management of state property are likely to be important both for the coalition and for the opposition, if only where, I think that we should prevail here and that we should accept at least the most important documents that are important for the Slovenian State Holding to come to life, some consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The position of the Ambassador of the Social Democrats Group will be presented by Mr Matevž Frangež. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u62	Respected and respected! And a good extension for consensus, to agree, is that the new political team before this national assembly does not come with a completely new concept, but rather with the upgrade of the previous Slovenian State Holding Act, because it is trying to find a reasonable compromise between the current regime in force at the time of the Janšev government, the concept before that, following the Capital Investment Management Act and the Agency, with the desire to achieve a reasonable measure of centralisation of the management of state assets on the one hand, professionality and efficiency and transparency of governance, in order to achieve the greatest and optimal benefits for the country, economy and its people. For Social Democrats, the issue of governance of state property is a first-class political theme. Not because we would have any special interests in the management of this or that company, but because we are aware that we have a special responsibility as the current generation to this property. Long to generations who, with their work and knowledge, have created this property, as well as the debt to future generations, which of this property must offer from national wealth at least as good a chance for development as we have received ourselves. This, of course, cannot be done without the consistent, strict and decisive enforcement of good corporate governance of the entire state property. The less we do in this area, the greater the need for privatisation. The more we give up and are subjected to interesting or political pressure to manage state investments, the more the argument is that we sell as much of this property as possible. We are opposed to social democrats selling state property. However, we are open to reasonable privatisation, which, from case to case, will assess from business to business what the impact of an individual company on the national economy, its development, the position of employees, the role of the most demanding jobs, especially in development, and the wider social responsibility that every smart undertaking must have in our opinion. That is why we do not question the decisions already made. We understand, however, that the decision on which to sell an undertaking only to consider it as a portfolio investment and to choose the optimum moment between the date of purchase of a particular asset and the date of sale in order to achieve the maximum effect on the budget, between the question which enterprise is important for the country because it has a broader development impact for a country or for a particular region, has a high concentration of domestic knowledge in its products and employs a highly qualified professional profile, or the question that an entity is as a strategic one which the State, as an active owner and manager, wants to keep in its possession in the long term. This classification of individual tasks cannot be decided on the basis of a simple table indicating investments, defining the importance of portfolios or the strategic nature of investments and thus the decision, we sell it, we keep it, we will wait here a little longer. It's a strategic decision. And this strategic decision must be made on the basis of an expert opinion, a sober and broad public opinion and a unanimous decision by political stakeholders. I therefore insist that the Slovenian State Holding Act definitively enforce the principle that there must be a strategic issue ahead of the form. We estimate that in the last period we are a few years ahead of the third attempt to re-orient the governance of state assets. But in all these three attempts, we haven't come up with what we're missing in the whole process. This is the definition of a strategy, not just a document, but the logical and systematic wording of what the country expects from its investments as the owner. Since the state had not been able to form its will through collective formation until now, state property had been left to the positions of the supervisory councils and administrations, and it has often become a hostage of political interest, and in many cases their opposition has arisen from good companies. The Slovenian State Holding Act will be supported by the Social Democrats at this stage of the hearing, knowing that it is indeed an important part of coalition coordination that has indeed not taken place at the same table in the case of this law. However, we have met several times with the drafters of the law, and today I can see that, according to the solutions that are before us today, and following the solutions that are yet to be found in the text of the law, this law is appropriate for further consideration. However, there are some issues on which we want the Social Democrats to make our views very clear. First of all, the issue of strategy. It is unacceptable for us to decide within three months of the adoption of the type of individual investment law without a comprehensive strategy, with all the elements to be included. We ask the Government to do its utmost to present a strategy by the end of March, and no later than three months after the adoption of the law before this National Assembly, a comprehensive document containing all the elements necessary for the National Assembly to decide on the nature and fate of the individual investments. We demand that all key classification decisions, i.e. the classification of individual investments, be taken by the National Assembly. This is a task that comes to the highest area of democracy, because it is actually an inherent issue of governance. Also because we believe in the so-called democratic model of governance of state property, which is now increasingly prevalent in the modern world. In the meantime, until the adoption of the strategy, we reject any solution that would reduce the standard of democratic decision-making on the fate of individual investments. We allow economic and other needs to give rise to the need for interim consideration, but even then such decisions must be taken in the National Assembly. This assures their public, this ensures a broad debate and as Democrats we also believe in making optimal decisions for society. We expect that the Slovenian State Holding Act will implement the coalition principle enshrined in the first coalition agreement between coalition partners, and that is to say at least part of the purchases from the sale of that property that the State will decide to sell on the basis of a careful assessment of the strategic nature of the investment to the new development. Today, we have a number of needs in the economy, in the financing of operating assets, in new investments or in the launching of entirely new entrepreneurial projects for our young talented people who are not listening to capital markets. We want the country to strengthen its role in launching new projects, in launching projects from which we can hope for new jobs in the future. The law should not only provide for organisation; the law must also define the quality of governance significantly more than it has so far. If not by law, this issue will have to be addressed through a strategy. Today, there are different methodologies in the world, ways to measure the effects of public property management and at least the strategy should summarize the best models by which the country, as the owner, can effectively and successfully follow the objectives set by the strategy: governance standards, performance criteria, capital returns, number of employees, productivity and so on. I have already pointed out that we expect that the Slovenian State Holding throughout the entire range of its activities will be in line with the National Assembly. In this field, we have presented extensive proposals for amendments to the law to coalition partners and the government in recent months, which have already been largely taken into account today. However, there are still some questions that we will be paying attention to in the course of further consideration. The appointment of the Supervisory Board, the reporting to the National Assembly, the solution during the transitional period, as well as the method and procedure for the adoption of the strategy, are resolved in the law in a way that guarantees and provides primate to the National Assembly when making key decisions. The proposal provides for a 5-member Supervisory Board, elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Minister and the Government, drawn up on a proposal from the expert commission. The draft law excludes the Law on the participation of workers in administration. We are wondering how the country will show economic operators in Slovenia that, with the field of participation of workers in the management of economic operators, it is serious if it excludes from the most important extent of its investment the system law on the participation of workers in management. The country should set the first example of believing in co-management because it strengthens the company's employees' membership and makes business performance more robust across the board. In the views of the previous parliamentary groups of our coalition partners, we have heard a lot of words about the role of workers, that people are creating a business outcome. We would like this understanding to find the place of representatives of employees across the entire vertical, from employees in holding companies and individual subsidiaries, i.e. in individual investments, including in the supervisory board of the Slovenian State Holding. In this place, we set an example for such co-management from Slovenia. Workers and employees in all companies owned by Holdinga Slovenian power plants today, on the principle of one worker – one vote elects their representative in the Supervisory Board of Holding. This form of co-ordination is not only an initial trade union fight and the protection of labour rights, it is seen as an important correction to the possible political impact on the management of state property. Even though we believe that the law represents good restrictions on such interventions, we are realistic and believe that such practices should also be prevented by properly defining the participation of workers in management. However, the law provides for the establishment of an economic and social expert committee, which we consider to be the supervision of the legality and realization of the wider interest represented by state property in accordance with the democratic governance model already mentioned. Such an understanding of this expert committee was presented by the Secretary of State today in the introductory explanation. The social partners in the holding therefore do not exercise the mission and cooperation of workers in managing, but the manifestation of those interests of stakeholders who need to look after the legality, prudence, economy and efficiency of the management of state assets, so that we can end up saying that we have achieved a good model of governance of state property, which also returns maximum benefits to the State in the form of a return to the state budget. There is a lot of ideas in this debate about how the opposition's participation should be regulated. We believe that in the supervisory board of the Slovenian State Holding Party, political parties have nothing to look for. It therefore does not address the issue of the participation of coalition parties and not of opposition parties. In fact, the law allows for the participation of the President of the Commission for the supervision of public finances without the right to vote in decision-making on management. This participation, as well as the participation of the Minister at the meetings of the Supervisory Board, raises the question of the consistent implementation of the guidelines of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, which explicitly prohibit the impact of policy on the decision-making of the day-to-day management of companies. The issue of nomination and accreditation, the question of how to reach the best candidates for members of the supervisory boards or members of management boards in holding, as well as in companies in ownership or management, is an extremely important issue. We believe that this area must be subject to a very clear control system. Therefore, we also believe that the criteria for nomination and accreditation should be adopted by the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board should also appoint a Human Resources Commission and, in a similar manner as the escalating mechanism has already been defined, define a system of preventive controls and transparent information to the public in cases where the criteria of the expert commissions are not respected. We welcome the fact that some of the criminal provisions in the law have been sharpened. That our proposal also introduced a clear anti-corruption clause into the law. The progress of coalition bargaining is also evident on the issue of individual investments. First of all, the Capital Society. By the time the capital company was created and received 10% of the total privatised assets, it had already acquired the function of a demographic fund – a fund that now has about a billion euro of assets and is carrying out its task at 5% of its annual income, which is to provide the necessary EUR 50 million to finance the needs of the pension system. It would be expected that only the Capital Society or the redesigned demographic fund will solve the issue of the imbalances we have in the pension system. However, we agree that the Slovenian State Holding is, on the one hand, a strategic manager who has to actively manage assets, take care of the best people and make optimal decisions in the congregations to develop individual investments. On the other hand, we have the function of Kad, which is significantly different from this and is investment. However, the need to clear up the portfolio of When, sooner or later, strategic investments in order to provide the capital company with a wider room for manoeuvre on the issue of optimal management and the achievement of the greatest benefits – to buy the property when it is cheap, to sell it when it is possible to achieve the best price on the market for a given asset, and to create the value that we use to finance the pension system or to create a long-term capital base for this pension system. We therefore support the tendency of the Capital Society to remain a standalone company, but as one of the investments of the Slovenian State holding company with a particular form of joint management of shareholders – management. Here we would like to point out that this property is not the property of the pensioners, as it is most readily denied. This property is the mark of all generations and all insured persons in the pension system. Similarly, the issue of investment in the Triglav Insurance Company is similar. We believe that the inappropriate date has been a provision under which the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance, as the actual owner of this property, was obliged to sell this property to the Slovenian State Holding Company at a market price. The market price of this property today is low and such a provision would constitute a direct injury to the pension allowance. Therefore, it seems better to us to resolve the agreed arrangement of the price issue between the holding company and the Assembly of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance. A similar solution would also be expected in a similar provision relating to the position of the Consulting and Management Society, the DSU so far. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let me take my stand. It is important that the law on the Slovenian State Holding Mechanism for the Management of State Property in one place also strengthens us with clear anti-corruption provisions, providing for integrity and ethics in the management of state property. This awareness that as a national asset manager, as a member of the Supervisory Board or as a member or president of the administration of an important business, you do not do something that does not belong to someone, but that you have a high mission, the management of something that is owned by all citizens and citizens. That the law strengthens the control and transparency of decision-making that there is agreement within the coalition that the area of remuneration and remuneration of managers should also be regulated in a manner similar to that previously established by the legal restriction on remuneration of managers. All together, in order to achieve what the Social Democrats are doing in this area, we are setting ourselves as our target. In our economy, despite the difficult times and despite the bad economic prospects, there is a lot of good property, a lot of good companies, a lot of dedicated workers and honest directors. We want to be able to strengthen with a handful of optimism and hope also the view of this property that everything that has been created so far is not only bad. Our aim in this area is to prove that the country can be a good business owner. In allowing for reasonable privatisation, where the State withdraws from performance and ownership, where it is disturbing or where the development of individual companies and the quality of jobs is better to withdraw completely from the private owners. In those areas where we will collectively reach a minimum consensus on what is strategic and what is not to be achieved for future development, we will maintain active management without political or interest forces in order to achieve the broadest benefit for the wider community. Social Democrats will participate in this debate, work to create the best solutions and support the Slovenian State Holding Act at this stage.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Pavlisič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Mavko with a colleague, distinguished colleague, respected colleague! Government property management is not good. Actually, it sucks. And the top of this icy mountain of bad governance are our dear, too expensive state bank. And we've recently received a bill for these acts from all taxpayers. Not that it would be necessary to have strategies or classifications for good work, but that we would certainly not be in the clear, but that we need people with knowledge and experience, especially honesty. People like my fellow citizen, Mr. Starman. And in this trinity the law-classification-strategy is essentially a framework of law. A framework that has been empty on our legislative wall for over a year and has been slowly dusted. And now we're going to replace it with a new framework. The previous one was, say, a maple, today's noise, the previous one was stacked with nine nails together, this new one will be, say, with five, the previous one was a little bit more hollow, and this one will be a little bit more rounded. In short, the Americans call it "daddy," by the way, not to mention any other proverb from the southern places, everything is the same, but look, it's not an essential framework, it's an essential picture that will be in this frame. [[…]] This picture consists primarily of people who will be in the foreground, these five members of the Supervisory Board, who will then continue to give a tone to the SDH. The new composition of the Supervisory Board allows for a non-political and professional composition. I'm all for it. The opposition claims that it allows for a political and completely non-professional composition. And you know what? We're both right. The law provides for the appointment of five members of the Supervisory Board and will be proposed by the Government, to be appointed by the National Assembly. Until we have a concrete proposal from the Supervisory Council in the National Assembly, we will not know whether I was right about this, which I believe will be a non-political professional body, or whether the opposition, which claims, will have a politically and non-professionally constituted working body. And today, at this point, we separate from each other in this assessment, depending on whether we are optimistic or pessimistic, whether we are committed to the future, or whether we are burdened with the past. We will be able to talk about who is right when we have concrete names ahead of us and we will have to vote on them. Then, don't worry, I won't squander my words either, if that's necessary, if these key people are in the foreground, there's no less important landscape in the background. This landscape will somehow determine how this picture will look in general. I am talking, of course, about the classification and strategy of this asset, which will not be transferred to the Slovenian State holding company, but only this one will manage it. This classification and strategy will go in the direction of seriously changing the management of this property, which is essential, or it will go in the direction of such a change, so that nothing will simply change, which, according to the debate, even in this National Assembly, is the goal of many. And yes, the frame is good. The last one was good, too. If it is a condition for some to continue to paint this picture, what this future management of state property will look like, let us do it as soon as possible to discover who is serious, with serious changes in governance, which is now catastrophic, and who again keeps a fig in his pocket in order to accept such changes so that nothing changes. I started by saying that the management of state property is bad and that change is necessary. In my opinion, these substantive changes are more important than changing the already established form, or framework, as I said. But if anyone needs a new frame to paint a picture, let him be, we'll survive it too. And I would add that we are absolutely aware of the responsibility for these decisions, the responsibility associated with asset management. And it is responsible not to ignore the basic economic legalitys in force in the market economy. This is where responsibility begins, we cannot and cannot ignore fundamental economic legality. And these were largely ignored in the previous regime and ignored later, at the time of paide capitalism. And the result of ignoring these basic economic legalitys, which some professors can explain quite nicely, is that it is clear that these fundamental legalitys are not clear to them, and the result is a hole that we have barely been able to fill. And here we have to make a serious change for the future. We are already holding a hammer and nails in the Civil Gazette to put this new framework on the legislative wall. In short, we'll support the marriage. And then we're going to make sure that there's all kinds of nonsense going out there, like what's going on with the salaries of directors of state-owned companies. And don't let any more nonsense come in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u66	Hello, colleagues, colleagues, distinguished Secretary of State, Honourable Vice-President. Today we are talking again about the Slovenian State Holding Act. At the end of 2011, when we joined the House of the National Assembly, we were all united that the key projects that await us in this mandate are certainly the rehabilitation of the banking system and the transparent governance of state assets. Why were these both key tasks? Because we have already seen, more than at the end of 2011, that banks have accumulated too much bad investments, that even through these poor investments, this cooperation has been revealed in some way, economy, politics, bad investments, many times also criminal acts and, on the other hand, that various attempts, whether well-intentioned or poorly-intentioned, have shown and opened the eyes of Slovenes and Slovenes that state property is being mismanaged. In 2012, a government was elected to take this issue seriously and responsibly. Both laws have been prepared to discuss both management of these bad claims and the Slovenian State Holding Act. I think that this was one of the serious attempts, to adopt this law, to try to get as many different views as possible on the common denominator on a subject that is very difficult, on a point where the programming orientations of different parties differ and where it has already been known that it will be very difficult to reach a single proposal that we will all agree on in a single way. Despite all of this, over the summer of 2012, when the two projects were in some way almost endangered, there was sufficient understanding, wisdom to sit together in the summer months together and the debate concluded that both key laws were adopted in early autumn 2012. Today, it has already been said here that some have done everything possible and impossible not to enforce these two laws in order to prevent them from being retained by the Constitutional Court. Finally, at the end of 2012, the Constitutional Court gave a green light for the implementation of these laws. We all know that this new year 2013 has brought a relatively fast report from the anti-corruption commission, which has also resulted in the collapse of the government. It's been a good year now. What's the picture one year after that? Again, we have the State Holding Act in Parliament, in the meantime it has been used to provide that the function of the State Asset Manager should be assumed by the Slovenian Compensation Society for only a few months. And when I listen today to the views of the coalition's parliamentary groups, I see, first of all, that these positions are simply not harmonised, that the law is inconsistent, that from this point of view coalition partners bet each other that unfortunately there was no coalition coordination here, that you coordinated each other or on some different paths. At the time when we had some small opportunities for opposition Members to speak with the finance minister, we felt that there was a lot more to this consensus, but it has been a feeling lately that there is really no agreement. I fear from this place that the fate of this law is very questionable. And what colleague Pavlišič said would be very good if the law were adopted as soon as possible to start managing all assets together as soon as possible, so that there would also be talkative management, I am afraid that there are a lot of reasons for scepticism in these positions, that this will really happen and there will be still a lot of controversy within the coalition at this point. Obviously, it will be very difficult for the opposition Members to come to their positions or to enforce them, because it will be very difficult to harmonise them within the opposition. I think that doing this is irresponsible and that we should really find enough wisdom, understanding that we should take enough time for such an important law as the law that talks about how to manage state assets and that we should really do what the basic objectives of this law are, that the assets are combined in one place, that this property is managed together, and that Slovenian policy is also agreed as soon as possible on what strategies are for managing this property, ownership, that is, what are the privatisation intentions in this property area, what will this property play in ensuring a peaceful age for Slovenian pensioners and similar dilemmas that are still more than obviously open today. We will certainly continue to cooperate in the Slovenian People's Party as we have, whenever we have been invited so far, either through a coalition party or now as an opposition party. We also lack what was already evident in the past when we were in the coalition. It is said that there is a lack of common ground and that as soon as possible we will have important documents, such as the classification of state property, below the management strategy of this property. I am afraid that this framework, as Mr Pavlišič said, is indeed certain, but we have not yet decided exactly what this picture would be. There are gaps in the fact that someone would like to have a panoramic picture or a pure abstraction, within which no one would really know what is happening anymore, just as many times in this abstract management of state property has happened in the past. It will therefore be necessary for these elements, these images, these images, to be resonated as soon as possible and to be able to understand through these documents what our direction is. We're already in the second half of the term. These are things that require a lot of energy, will, and it is really our responsibility to accept these things. If we look at this law, which the provisions of which are disputed for the Slovenian People's Party, it is right to first talk about what has already been expressed here by DeSUS Members as well as other groups of Members of Parliament, it is said, above all, that this area of Kad property management, as well as the fact that there are no more 10% of the ransoms earmarked for the pension fund in this law. When we look at this arrangement, which is now in the law around the capital society, there is indeed an arrangement that I think is mainly indicative of an attempt to find some compromise within the coalition. Far from being an effective way of managing this property. If we look at the articles of the law and imagine how this law would then be implemented in practice, we have such a picture that the Slovenian State Holding would provide certain services to KAD, the Capital Society, all the structures of the Capital Society would remain. I really don't know what the benefit of such an arrangement would be to have a hybrid, where, after all, if we can understand it, in particular to dispel the responsibility of who is responsible for this property, in the meantime to charge some services to Kadu for the management of this property, but those who expect that they have acquired something by such an arrangement should be satisfied, in some way, that the legal person has maintained itself as a legal person whose function would remain considerable. In this part, we feel that this is an inappropriate solution, and there will certainly be much more to be said about it. Even before that, it is a fundamental dilemma and a key change to this law from what is now in force is not being implemented. It is said whether this will be a real holding arrangement, that this holding company will also have this property, or whether it will only be the manager of this state property and property of Kad. Here it is, as has already been said today, again for a disabled solution that we fear will have a whole range of problems in its implementation. Payments by members of the supervisory board as well as members of the administration, this is a topic around which today there is a lot of talk, even when we are talking about a bad bank, about the relationship between salaries in the Slovenian space. This document now regulates, following this proposal for payment in state-owned enterprises, the one around which this Slovenian holding company is supposed to manage to be in line with the regime applicable to state-owned enterprises today, while the matter is fully open to the Slovenian State Holding itself in respect of these payments. I think that in the Slovenian space, as well as around a number of things that we want and wrap in a little bit of mystery, we will also have to speak clearly and openly about these wage relationships and also to know what is right and what is wrong. Today, we have such a relationship that, as we see now in a bad bank, those who manage this bad bank have the possibility that there will be about three to four times the remuneration of the President of the Government, with the possibility that the rewards will even double this remuneration. In this case, we again allow the supervisors for the Slovenian State Holding to decide on this freely and freely. I believe that these deviant cases in the Slovenian space, which began with this Kramar case, which was eventually also involved in rehabilitation and withdrawal by the Constitutional Court, because we have handled certain matters in an irregular manner, are so eclectic that it will be obvious that there will be a need to pour in this area, in the area of pay relations, clean wine and also in such materials, certain criteria. It's a broader complex, and it's probably going to be a serious problem for us to get the best managers on the payroll that's going to be lower than the President of the Government, who is about 3,000,500 euros net, if I'm not mistaken. It is also unacceptable to us that someone who manages state property simply receives a salary that is paid in such multiples by the President of the Government. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party, it is estimated that – in view of the achievements that are now taking place in the past and which will certainly have to happen in the future – even in this law things will have to be clearly written. We also have a certain dilemma that the Slovenian State Holding is not competent to manage the investments of the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. In this area, too, it will be necessary to determine who is responsible as soon as possible, how these shares will be managed in companies where we will now have one stake in the Slovenian State Holding Company, the other in the Bank Claims Management Company, because in practice there is real confusion and people working in these companies are virtually unaware of what they are. However, there is certainly also a very big problem in strategic decisions on business strategies, only if we come to the field of divestment. On the other hand, we hear the ambitions of those who are obviously well paid by the Bank Claims Management Company, after extending these mandates to 15 years and I don't know where, and I think we really need to focus on this problem and also have a clear picture of what we want. I mentioned earlier that in some way this relationship between Kad, the Court, the payment of these services and the like, the service that SDH will charge to the State, Kadu and so on. So in this part, we really have some kind of mess back. In the Slovenian People's Party, we firmly believe that this is not an arrangement which could eventually remain in law, and we will have to talk about it thoroughly and find a more appropriate regime. The law speaks of a strategy proposed by the Government being adopted by the National Assembly and applicable until the adoption of the new strategy. The management strategy for these companies is a document for which it is certain that we must or must make so much effort to preparers that they will be held back for a period of time so that there are no new and new strategies. I think that these strategies should be aligned, by the way, adopted in the National Assembly by a broader consensus, and not by the ever-increasing novelties, with new governments, with new coalitions, to change these guidelines. That is why we think that in some ways it also points to these problems that are in the coalition itself, even in this area, and it is passed on to the law itself. As regards the Supervisory Board, it has been established that the Supervisory Board appoints the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government, the National Assembly shall give its consent to the entire proposal. It was already said here from this city that it is indeed the ultimate government party's killer salad, which in fact insisted explicitly on this point last year when representatives of the opposition must be allowed to propose professional people to the supervisory board of the Slovenian State Holding. This part is really about, I think, transferring last year or this year. I myself think that in the area of governance, we must be clear, open, and say that there have been many mistakes in the past. There will also be nothing different in the future – the proposals will somehow come from political lines, either it is a government or it is a coalition, the opposition. If we are talking about state property and if politicians are also responsible for our decisions on what laws we are adopting, it is therefore necessary to take responsibility for the people proposed in such supervisory councils. We therefore think that this arrangement should be better regulated, because it does not provide any assurance, as colleague Pavlišič has already said, that once again it will not be impossible to share ours: yours and, on the other hand, the optimistic scenario, as he said, can be followed by capable people. However, I think it is right that this responsibility, in some way through quality regulation, is already in the very law of the policy that is elected at that time, also responsible for this part of the treatment of state property, has the plurality of proposing professional people who will lead this supervisory council and will be integrated into this system in this way. So we think that this area is also one of those where there is still a need to think carefully about whether it is appropriate or not. As far as the law and the fate of this law are concerned, I think it would be really crucial that what has been said from this pay phone today is that we should make every effort and adopt the law as soon as possible in order to get out of the situation we are in today. And what is the situation in this area today: last year a law was passed that is not implemented. This law gave the possibility for the Slovenian Compensation Society to manage this property today. And no one can convince us anymore, and I think that the wider Slovenian public is also aware that, as has been the case in the past, there is now so much more obvious and in the eyes of the public that, at this moment, there are very politically covered key places in the control of the Slovenian Compensation Society, in the management of this society, and that the interests of politics in these societies are very present today. If we know that, on the other hand, we are also dealing with the problem of untransparent activities in a bad bank so far, we think these are key things, and we should get out of this agony as soon as possible. Today is the first reading of this law, which is said to be a general consideration, which is intended for all concerns to be raised. In the Slovenian People's Party, we would be very happy to have the first reading and general discussion also, say, under the Real Estate Tax Act, so that we could listen to each other to take time off, but then it was urgent and in a month and a half the second time in the National Assembly, the law was adopted, it is said, even after the veto of the State Council. However, I fear that today this is the first debate, given the views expressed by the coalition parties to be held, but from here on out, the real butchery within the coalition will only begin. And I am afraid that, unfortunately, there will remain such a longer management of state property through the Slovenian Compensation Society, as is today, which is certainly not an honour and we will have even more criticism and observations in the future, that we do not know how to manage state property. In the Slovenian People's Party, we know that this law will be adopted in the first reading. We have expressed our concerns about this marriage. I hope that this intensive negotiation, coordination between parliamentary parties will take place in the coming weeks and months, as has been the case with a number of other laws and very quickly, that we will come up with quality solutions that will meet the expectations of voters and voters from us when we enter Parliament in this mandate, that we will truly deal with this problem openly and fairly, and that we will all have together, those who decide, and those who have chosen us, trust that, indeed, with State property, the economy is better than in the past. Because of all these deviations that have been in the past, this property is now significantly less valuable than it would have been. At times, however, there was also an unfair feeling that in these companies there are the bastards themselves, that none of the directors can manage well and that it would be best not to say sell, but almost donate this property as soon as possible. I think with smart, smart management, they could bring it to the right level. And it is true that this law, its implementation and its subsequent classification and management strategies depend on which direction Slovenia will go in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u67	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. The word has magic. Katarina Hotchevar. Get ready, Mr. Jakob Presecnik, mag. Matthew Tonin and Mr Jerko Chehovin. Here you go, mag. Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. I welcome the Minister, the Secretary of State and all the colleagues and colleagues present! As a Member, I understood the good purposes of the previous Slovenian State Holding Act and the objectives it wanted to achieve. I also understand the purpose, the sincere purpose, of the current minister looking for consensus and the common denominator of the different views on the management of state property in the new law. Allow me, however, to give a few clear thoughts on how to manage state property. Because of me, the marriage could have only four articles. Article 1 Investments and state assets must be concentrated. 2. Article, Investments and state assets should be classified. 3. Article, Only natural monopolies or those companies which cannot be transformed in such a way as to compete in the open market shall remain State or majority state ownership. And four. Article, All other investments must be sold. Everything else was superfluous in the previous marriage, in the previous coalition, and it's superfluous in this marriage. I agree, for example, with the purpose of the law you have written that a separation of the function of the state as the owner of capital investments from the other functions of the State should be achieved. I'll sign it. But then why is the appointment of supervisors in SDH actually left exclusively to the government. Okay, confirm the National Assembly, but the government coalition. The government is not a state and must not take full control in its own hands. Let's not pretend as long as state property exists, until then the policy will always look for its piece of cake and with a concentration of power in the hands of one entity this piece will become a big piece. Here I give an idea, we also have an institution of the President of the country or another institution in Slovenia that enjoys a possible greater reputation in our country. Let us therefore ask ourselves whether we are really cutting the cord between the economy and politics, which is, in view of Slovenia's experience so far and the practice of pre-conditions, to solve what to do. I claim that we've turned the state gold into silver, and now it's slowly becoming old iron. We have only hope to prevent this iron from turning completely brown. We must be aware that even if we sell everything we have, we will not repay half of what we owe. That's why I need to debate in the context of where we're going to give the money, when we're going to sell something, we're actually going to smile a little bit. The most important step should be the concentration of investments that would allow transparent and uniform management and, of course, a meaningful resale. But then, for God's sake, there are provisions in the law that go in the direction of separating these investments into SDH, to KAD, to the Republic of Slovenia. By doing so, we are making SDH inoperable and state property will once again become a playground for measuring political power and for enforcing political interests. The applicant points out that it wants to achieve the management of investments owned by SDH and the Republic of Slovenia in line with international guidelines, with good practice and, of course, with the management of investments with corporate governance practices, but at the same time, the law includes concepts that have nothing to do with corporate governance and, in my opinion, leave the door open again for the so-called national interest. In my view, this national interest has already done so much damage in the past, for some time it would be wise to leave this word relationship to the politicians. She's already cost us too much. I call on all the politicians, but there is no difference here between this or the other bloc, even in the previous government we have not sold anything or not enough. There we had each other, who had a little too much interest in national interest, but now each other. But the fact is, we have to cut this off and the country has to get out of the economy. As far as this wage provision is concerned, I will only say this, and I will not owe if workers have a minimum wage, it is right that we also set such managers in these times and at least a maximum wage. This is my thinking, and these are my dilemmas under this law, which I hope the Secretary of State will be able to dispel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u70	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! My dear coalition, I have one solution for you, how state property could transfer more into the state budget and how the current lobby could be cut off from state money. Most likely, we all agree on these two objectives, and there are no concerns against it, at least there is no one to hear. Now that we can do this and we can do this, of course, it is necessary to collect the entire state property under one roof. The management of all assets should be centralised. If I tell you a little bit about it, there's only one driver to be put on the bus, not three bus drivers to pull the wheel in their direction. The essence of unified and centralised governance is that we try to run everything from one centre, manage everything, and thus create as much profit for the country as possible. By now, most likely, no one will have objected to the need to get the entire property under one roof. How, though, can this property be managed? What's my suggestion? I propose to make a government coalition or government an international call, so let us first set up a Slovenian state holding company that will collect all the assets under one roof, then let us go to an international call and invite foreign recognised financial institutions to carry out this Slovenian state holding company and, say, dear boys, if you manage our state assets so successfully, your reward will be such if you manage the unsuccessful, reward or payment for your work. What will this accomplish? This will achieve, for the first time, that the local lobby will not argue who will influence and who will set up the managers of this Slovenian state holding company, we will cut off all the current lobbying because I am sure that the foreign administrator will try to create as much as possible, because it will also depend on its payment and will not agree to the giving of such and other improvements to the various lobbies. Or is all this law that is now ahead of us supposed to be? Of course not. This law does not go this way, this law does not link or unite all property under one roof. As my colleague Horvat has already said, in some ways we are getting a new AUKN, which is just a manager, such as a weaker national asset manager, but not the owner of this property. In addition to the fact that the Slovenian state holding company is not a state holding company at all, but is an AUKN, the management envisaged is also very unusual, as in some ways it concentrates together at the Ministry of Finance, which is also not good. If we look at current history, then we can see that the country's favorite was bad governance, bad managers, and bad governance. It's always the most expensive thing for any company and even if you want to, for state property. Since the current law does not provide for a uniform administration of state property, I am sure that even with such a singing and repeated privatisation, there will be absolutely nothing, because now this governance is broken down into so many parts that someone who will always be on the wheel of privatisation will push the stick to stop this process. Because only if you have one boss, if you have one master, then you can make a deal, what kind of thing to do. But if one thing is decided by five people, then, believe me, we're not gonna make a deal. Of course, someone will say Tonin to you, you know, privatisation is bad because the synonym for privatisation in Slovenia today is a sale, maybe even for some bigotry, but I'm sure privatisation as such, if it's done well, doesn't mean anything bad. Foreign investors who go to Slovenia probably do not walk because of the individual company they buy, close and destroy jobs, but because of the knowledge that this company has or because of the market that this company owns. It should be in our greatest interest that companies act well, because well-functioning companies also mean significant payments to the state budget, and ultimately everything from education, health and everything that works in the country is financed from the state budget. But no, there has been a winged national interest in Slovenia for a long time. This national interest has never been very intense in privatisation in Slovenia. It has even been blocked all the time and today this national interest in Slovenia has caused billions of damages. Why? Because of this, when intensive privatisation in Slovenia was to begin in some way after 2000, various defenders of national interest came forward, who practically stopped and prevented all foreign investors. And when Slovenian companies needed money, new investments, foreign investments at the top of the economy, these were simply not too much because the defenders of national interest stopped such foreign investments. The only foreign investment, if you want the only money that came from abroad to Slovenia, was money that foreign banks loaned to Slovenian state banks or Slovenian banks. And what did these Slovenian banks do? These, however, lent him further to various bad managers who were taking over Taiwan. If you round the story, you can reach the end of the end result that the national interest is to blame in one way or another for this bank hole, which was recently revealed. If we let some normal privatisation go, then perhaps those companies that are going down today, which have fallen infamously, would have good foreign strategic partners or owners who would still be able to manage these companies well today and still have jobs for people today. But we know the results and now crying for back is completely meaningless and unnecessary, it can only serve us to learn from mistakes and not repeat them again. That's why I would really like this government coalition, this Slovenian State Holding Act simply to reject because it's bad because it's not good because it's not good, because in here each of its own interest groups has pulled things in their direction, everyone has negotiated a concession, some have argued that the KAD is being eliminated, others have argued that the energy is being eliminated. From this law we have simply received one simple scribble, which will not serve anything, but will definitely not help to make this country and our Slovenian budget benefit from Slovenian state property. That is why we would do the most for this country if this law were rejected because it is bad, it has been re-launched, simplified and, above all, written in such a way that everything that country has will be brought under one roof, as I said, made an international call, offered the management of this state property to the best operator, demanded results from it, and paid for it after these results. If we do this, we have nothing to miss, all the local lobbyists are cut off from this flow of money, but such a way of managing can mean a huge contribution to the state budget. But it is already clear to me today that there will be no overemphasis and great enthusiasm for this, because there are still groups that will fight for the predominance and for the flow of this money all the time and will support such bad laws that allow fishing in mud.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Jerko Čehovin has the floor. Mr Janko Weber, Mrs Kristina Valenčič, will follow him. Here you go, Mr. Chehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u72	Thank you, Madam Vice President. When we talk about national property, we always risk shivering into a commodity where different interests are intertwined. Today, too, it is no different, and of course, it will be no different. The new law on SDH, which Minister Chufer himself, after all the peripetions that have occurred to him, has been described as politically naive, while providing a more welcome definition of conflict of interest, corruption risks, transparency, compensation responsibility of the administration, as well as control and public information. Some progress has been detected here. Of course, given these well-known conceptual views of our policy, it is clear that this law, born as a good and healthy child, will be for some time. In this concept, we meet with viewers, on the one hand, we would not excuse the thesis that nothing should be sold, but those who would sell everything. I will not say much about this national interest, although I think that the authors of this national interest themselves did not think of what was going on then or how this national interest was amassed through the greed of some individuals who, of course, led to this situation. Nor will I claim that the hole in banks is only a result of this national interest or this greed, but also of other international and domestic circumstances and, I hope to say, the incapacity of those who managed these investments. I have a slightly different opinion on this, including from experience in the international world, for example, if I take a country that does no harm to anyone, neither our neighborhood nor anything, say Norway. Norway manages 53 important companies owned by the State. I also believe that property itself, the form of ownership does not yet mean that investment will be good, effective, successful. The property itself is a dead thing, inert, immobile. Value gives her what? Work, ability, and, in particular, management. And here I think the main problem is that so far we have not had too many happy hands, except for the rare exceptions that we have managed this state property in a way that is economically justified and justified, and in particular useful. This is it, more or less, of course, we can also agree here. State holding company. Of course, I also have certain, pure, I'll say, terminology concerns whether it's holding or it's another form. It is clear that this terminology has been summarised under the existing law. The main difference is that this holding does not transfer property that remains in the ownership of the Republic of Slovenia or that holding will only have the right to manage or manage the holding company itself and of course manage the subsidiaries. The difference is that we will or at least try to get everything under one roof. Here I must say that these coalitions are not just in this coalition, even in all others, always such that certain compromises must be made. But personally, I must say that I advocate the thesis that all state property must be managed under one roof. However, certain obligations from legislation already adopted, as well as from legislation or agreements with the social partners, could also be introduced as a legal provision in the law itself, and it would not be necessary for us to have additional administrations, additional supervisory councils and other things, since we now have management practically in five places or if we take the newly created DUTB, it is already the sixth city and certainly does not contribute to our having this transparent. It also allows that not only the appetizers of these cities appear back then, but also, of course, each of these operators is subject to a certain lobby or certain networks that expect certain benefits or, if not otherwise, at least human resources solutions. In principle, I therefore welcome the fact that we no longer talk about having opposition and coalition governance in our administration and so on. I agree that, while membership in political parties is not prohibited for professionals, the Constitution also guarantees us the right to political integration in the final stage, but it would be best to have very little or nothing to do with governance and a great deal of knowledge, experience and expertise. That would probably be what we all want here, regardless of our place in the National Assembly. But I think even though we're going to have this baby, we're going to have a slow baby. Now how healthy it will be, how fast it will grow, of course it depends not only on us, but on how successful we will be in bringing in the right people. Personally, I don't mind bringing them in with international calls, but it will be hard to imagine that some very large expert will come to these places if we limit his salary in advance to the level that our managers most deserve. In view of the fact that we are here in the first reading, the government or representatives of the ministry as well as everyone else, I think we should listen to what are the main, major comments and that there will be as little as possible lobbyist pressures, conflicts of various interests, and that we will eventually bring together a decent law. However, once again, not all appetites will be satisfied and I repeat here that it is more important for me to talk not only about sales and privatisation but also about the quality of managing these investments. As far as I'm concerned, this new holding company can also set up new companies, it can also accept other shares, in any case it has a share or manages it in the most appropriate way. However, I am of course a very large advocate to sell off all those minimum shares, which are less than 25% in these difficult companies, because there is really nothing to do in the country if it has 7%, if it has 12%, because it does not have a qualified share and cannot affect anything. It also happens to us that, in fact, because of the lack of transparency, it also loses management or voting rights in assemblies and companies. Of course there's a lot of work going on here. This model has not actually worked, it has not worked, we have to admit this, the number of actors needs to be reduced absolutely. Personally, I would also like to see that what the European Directive requires us to do for electricity distribution companies in order to do so, but as you know, we have already defined this in our law, which we confirmed yesterday, so this is adopted in the energy law and this part will fail normally. As far as this Blue Insurance Company is concerned, it is designated for strategic investment as long as it manages a closed mutual pension fund for public servants. As a mass, however, it is already at this National Assembly and also in the Coalition Treaty, the sale of these 15 investments, of which two were sold, of which 5 were accepted for sale earlier, so this coalition actually added 9 companies and one bank. I believe that, of course, we will not spread this list until the adoption of the strategy, or that it will not automatically spread and that we will, of course, have problems again, given that we have, as we say, within the coalition, and we publicly acknowledge that there are certain conceptual differences in this, but that there would also be another coalition, unless we had a single-colour government, then these concepts would probably be cleared. This is nothing wrong, and I think it is better to recognise these differences and negotiate and negotiate them than to sweep things under carpets. The law that we have adopted, I think that we are adopting in the first reading today and we are sending it for further consideration, of course it will be subject to a lot of changes, a supplement, but I can still say that this path is the right one and that, apart from the fact that someone imagines this state holding company more than an institution that will sell state property, some others think that it will be an institution that, in addition to selling what we will consider to be portfolio investment, has to take care of the effective and effective management of the remaining state assets. I'm sure we'll just end up adopting a decent marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Since there have been changes in the order of the debaters, I would like to present what the next panellists will be. First of all, it will be Mr. Janko Weber, behind him. Andrey Shircelj, then Mag. Ivan Vogrin, Mrs Romana Tomc and then Mr Ivan Simčič. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. When we talk about the management of state property, first of all, we need to have the fact that it is the property of our citizens and citizens, they have created it. Those who can decide how to dispose of this property are, in fact, only the National Assembly, because Members and Members are elected by citizens and citizens, and in fact have given us this opportunity to manage this property and expect that this property will certainly allow for such economic growth, new jobs, development, short-term prosperity and, above all, expect us to ensure a transparent disposition of this property, that is to say, an insight into what is happening to this property, both in the management phase or in the part for which we might agree to dispose of it. And the law, which is now in the procedure of the National Assembly, does not follow. To a large extent, we deviate from the decision made by the National Assembly on what will happen to this property. In fact, this law is written in a way that the National Assembly needs only at this stage when we adopt this law, and later when it begins to work, we will be able to listen once a year only to what happened to this property. This is, in fact, incorrect mainly to the National Assembly, to Members and Members. And if we also look at the comparative arrangements in other countries, which are also mentioned in this law, both Finland, France and Germany, which are presented in this law, how they regulate the management of this property. In all three cases, this property is managed by a state authority and not by an economic company, which is the Slovenian State Holding Company, which is supposed to manage this property. And none of these state authorities own this property, only with us will the Slovenian State Holding have a stake in it, but some will, of course, manage state property. So, even the good practices that are in place in the world, obviously we are not able to understand and bring them to Slovenia. I hope that we will truly understand in the course of this process what our responsibility is and what our task is in the National Assembly. In view of the fact that, in the transitional provisions, this law regulates the adoption of the first strategy in order to draw up the first strategy of the Ministry of Finance, this first strategy is adopted by the Government, which means that, in fact, the National Assembly has no role to play during this transitional period. During this transitional period, everything can happen with this property, but the government does not have any criteria imposed on it by the National Assembly, let us say that it must respect what will happen to this property. So it is a completely free assessment of the government, what it will do with this property and what it will do with this property to keep holding. If we look at the relationship between these 11 billion assets and up to 100,000 employees, about 100,000 people are employed in these companies, which are the subject of governance and today's debate. The procedure for appointing a Minister in the National Assembly is to present, however, his programme, swears before the National Assembly, but when we look at the members of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board of Holding, in fact, in all this procedure, when we discussed governance, the position of the Social Democrats has always been rejected, so that at least those members of the Board and members of the Supervisory Board present themselves before the National Assembly, that we know who these persons are who will manage the property they are supposed to be entrusted with. So this minimum has not been possible until now. I want to say that in fact, members of the Board of Supervisors have significantly greater powers than ministers in the Government. And this is a key mistake of all the thinking that happens in this management. Because this property is not owned by stakeholders, it is not owned by political parties, and it is not for anyone who wishes to manage it. As stipulated in the law at this stage, it is envisaged that it is even very well paid, very well paid, but does not respond to practically anyone. He does not answer to the National Assembly by any provision in this law. These are such essential derogations that must actually concern us when we talk about Slovenia's success in overcoming this economic crisis and encouraging economic growth, providing jobs, enabling investment in development and so on. In all these companies, which have already been sold, we first meet with great forgiveness, that is the first. And did we say anything to this topic about what will happen to these companies that we will sell, for example, and if we do not accept the strategy in the National Assembly as a basic document, there is really no criterion that must be respected by the Government, which must be respected by the Ministry of Finance, which it must respect, say, by the management of the holding company. In fact, we should have agreed and adopted a capital investment management strategy a long time ago as a basic document that tells us what we expect from an individual enterprise, what we expect from an individual sector, and then you trust someone with the management of that property. Without this document, in fact, anyone who manages this property has no responsibility to citizens and citizens and to Parliament. That is why this strategy is indeed crucial and must be accepted by the National Assembly, we must reach consensus. I have already said once that it would be better to adopt this strategy with a two-thirds majority, so that we can really agree on what we will do with this property in the widest possible circle, and then we trust someone in governance. If we look at the role of the anti-corruption clause, if I may say so, in this law. All nice and right, a lot of articles talk about this, and then all of a sudden we get to the point where we find that the Slovenian State Holding company does have an authority that cares about business compliance and integrity, but this Commissioner is appointed by the Administration and the Supervisory Board gives its consent to the appointment of this Ombudsman who is concerned that there is no corruption in the holding. And interestingly enough, the tatists also dismiss this officer, with the approval of the Supervisory Board. So what kind of control is provided in this law that corruption will not occur. If we look at the Commission's report on anti-corruption, it is very clear that in Slovenia we also have a decline in ratings because we do not control the situation, the areas of corruption. So if I return to the jurisdiction of the National Assembly for a moment, there is no good arrangement for the administration and the supervisory council to name the one who will take care of the anti-corruption actions in this company, because at any time they can dissolve it and name the one who will measure it. It is only the National Assembly, in my opinion, who may appoint such an officer, or the President of the Republic, who is also elected directly in the elections. I do not see any other body having this competence if we are to achieve that this property is actually managed in a transparent way and that responsibility is also established. This is just a few of the points that I want to make in this general debate, in order to really agree on how we will manage this property, and that we will stop joking once again, that it is that we will simplify governance, that key solution, far from that. The Slovenian compensation company has obligations to denationalisation and needs to be met; the capital company has obligations to the pension system, which must also be taken care of, are completely different matters. We also have the infrastructure that we must certainly have in order to function normally, but it has a completely different role to play than the two tasks that I have mentioned. In short, it is important that we agree on what we will do in a particular area, adopt this strategy and then significantly less political debate, significantly less debate on what is going on with this property, and, above all, it will not be so easy to say that everything has to be sold out and that this is the best solution, because then the country has no influence. My opinion is also that, in fact, these two companies, which are already on the list of 15 companies for resale, I stress, without all the criteria for how this process should be carried out, I am talking about the Aerodrome and Telekom, should also be included in the strategy adopted under this law. For a simple reason, because the Aerodrome process should also run in a transparent way, which will be envisaged in this strategy, which will determine what we expect from our airport at all. There's been a lot of public talk that the Venice airport could be the one that will buy our airport. Do we have any leverage to figure out that our airport will not be just some additional service to the Venetian. Why not put into the strategy that we want to have an airport that will have the greatest impact for this region. We don't have this document. And today they can talk freely about how and who will buy this important infrastructure facility or for the aviation field an extremely important airport. Same with Telekom. Much knowledge is also competitive with other telecoms, but we simply have no criterion on which to say that we want to maintain development, that we still want to have a very modern network and that we want to know from the new owner whether we will keep it or not. There's no document to charge anyone who wants to buy it, say, Telekom. These are the questions we really need to answer as the National Assembly through this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I am listening to the debates of all the parliamentary groups, the views of the parliamentary groups, and I am listening to the discussions of my colleagues and colleagues, particularly from the coalition. I'm interested in the government's position. Indeed, the views of the coalition's parliamentary groups, as far as I can see, and particularly their representatives, are completely different. On the one hand, we have Social Democrats who are simply not satisfied with this law, who see the lack of the role of the National Assembly in actually determining. On the other hand, we have the National List, where, of course, the representative says that everything should actually be sold out except that natural wealth, as I understand it, is said to be not yet rivers, mountains, storms and so on. While the road is already asking whether it would be better if it were private property or not. Here, of course, I said somewhat hypothetically and symbolically. This is also what some international newspapers write about, the extent to which state property and state ownership also include villains, including rivers, including fields and all state-owned ones, even mountains, if you want, which may be private after all. She also made an OECD study on this and found that EUR 9 trillion of such property, which could still be sold by countries, is likely to pay their debts. But if, and if the opposition spoke a year and a half ago, when that law was in the debate that is at last valid today, about treason, about the theft of the century and, of course, about the sale of all this stuff, then I don't see the progress of this one year in actually doing something with state property. Something in terms of greater efficiency. In fact, I do not understand the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that, with such differing opinions, the coalition will come to the National Assembly and no area is harmonised. On the one hand, DeSUS is interested in When and how much money they will receive in the pension register, on the other hand, there is uncoordinated supervision, on the third page, the role of the National Assembly is uncoordinated. We're a long way from this strategy. And even if we look at the coalition contract, that one, I don't know if it's the last or the last one, anyway, talking about the completion of the 15+ list and a clear and transparent strategy. These are nice words, and I note that this law between coalition partners is completely out of line and therefore I want to hear the Government representative say what is actually going to happen to this law, whether this law is still possible to be reconciled in further discussions on the assumption that this law will go into further consideration, or whether it is even possible to harmonise it because there are so many substantive differences between the coalition itself. Secondly, I think that this situation is damaging Slovenia. On the one hand, we have a law that is not being implemented, because it does not want to organise and organise this holding company, it does not put any organs and so on, on the other hand, we also have a classification that is what it is. As I know, colleague Pogačnik even aligned this classification in March 2013 with all the parties, I think that even with the opposition and there was no problem at the time that if we wanted to have a different focus or position in a company, this would also happen, for example, for Slovenian railways or for any other company that would be a strategic investment. And of course, in this respect, after all, a respected coalition, you have at least a classification and you have a list of all state-owned companies, where you can, of course, change percentages of state property and turn them into strategic, non-strategic and so on, in your opinion and your conviction. After all, you already have something, and you can use it after all. Otherwise, it is, of course, a question of the meaning of this debate in these different opinions, if this law goes to the next reading and will not be adopted after all. And we need to know that here, on the one hand, there is a foreign expectation that something will be done in this area, not just a list of 15 companies, but something more. On the other hand, this is also important because, despite the fact that there are no privatisation amounts in the 2014 and 2015 budgets, the current revenues indicate that money from this title will have to be used here. On the other hand, we are talking about 5 companies today, and this law is also talking about 5 companies that are supposed to be centralised and concentrated in 3 companies. And here we still have the question of whether such an arrangement will bring sufficient, effective governance of state property. Firstly, we will have a Slovenian state holding company, secondly we will still have a KAD, which will be a completely independent person, I also speak from an organisational point of view and I also speak from the point of view of management. Should not the Slovenian holding company have the same or the same shares as the KADs, there will be different opinions and different management, as has been the case in the past. And we have a third company, which is actually almost untouchable, we have it specifically listed here, this is the Blue Insurance. The Blue Insurance Company is already predetermined as a strategic company and the Blue Insurance Company is in fact nothing can happen. On the other hand, the Blue Insurance Company is now a very large owner of Cimosa, for example. And under some law, the Blue Insurance Company should actually have sold this Cimos out years ago, even when the golden times were, if you want, for sale, even at the time when Telekom was over 400 euros, in 2007, 2008, and so on. But no effort was made. And here I believe that the current situation, as well as here there is no coordinated action, will lead us to further damage, or, otherwise, I will say that this property will shrink further. If, or if, one year ago, you were talking about 12 billion assets, I don't know if today you are putting those who said so in the fire that this is 12 billion, or 11 billion, or 10, because in the balance sheets this asset will have to be substantially reduced by 2013, especially for 2014, because the balance sheets have to work at market prices and they have been oversupplyed by prices. And because they were oversupply prices, they weren't just oversupply prices for the owners themselves, if you understand me, it wasn't only if the bank had a stake in some real estate, it had to lower this property value in its balance sheet, but as a result it had to do so also to the CAD, it had to do so also by the SOD, because the fall in real estate prices is a very simple case, regardless of the fact that full companies went into bankruptcy, into compulsory settlement and so on and those shares are nothing. And also pension companies as well as KAD and also SOD and Blue Insurance have stakes in these companies. Because of this, ladies and gentlemen, I suggest you sit down, make a law that will be harmonised, the opposition will, if you want, help you, the opposition will make its proposals. I ask the Government how it will lead such a law into further procedures, because this is a different strategy for the organisation and execution of assets. Not only different policies – strategies. Because of this, I am, given that the value of this state property falls from day to day, very concerned about the property that you say is the property of all citizens, because these citizens have from minute to minute, from hour to hour, from day to day, from week to week less of this property.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Mitja Mavko, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A few questions were raised in the course of the debate and I would like to present the Government's opinion to the point of view. On the final question, what is the status of this law and how the Government monitors the consideration of this law in the National Assembly. It is quite clear that the bill before you is harmonised in the Government and as such has been forwarded to the National Assembly. If I were not in agreement, this proposal would not be before you today. Of course, the Government is fully committed to democratic procedures in Parliament and in the course of the parliamentary debate, I have no doubt that any solutions in this law can be improved. We are very open to all good proposals to improve and strengthen this text, but each time a majority will determine what will and will not be adopted for each individual amendment. Why can the Government believe that the management of assets, as proposed by this law, can be effective and that it will be effective? For the first time because it is very detailed and in our opinion it is professionally determined who manages this property, how these persons are chosen to manage this property, and how they manage it. If I'm going to do this first, how do I manage this property? The law clearly lays down the competence of SDH for comprehensive management, which means the acquisition and disposal of this property on behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia when it comes to the property of the Republic of Slovenia. In the case of property transferred from the Soda to SDH on its own behalf, as well as in the case of property relating to KAD. So SDH has all the power to manage all the assets entrusted to it in this law. Why we believe that the management of this property can be effective, but it may be more important who manages it. This law is much more detailed on how we get to the competent owners of the state's assets. There is no procedure to allow the Government to determine, say, candidates for the SDH Supervisory Board. It is clearly defined how this appointment takes place. The expert committee proposing qualified candidates must operate at the back, and the criteria for these candidates must be set. The criteria set out are that these candidates must not only be individually competent but also collectively, i.e. that their knowledge is complementary. Therefore, the Supervisory Board of five members will be able to act and cover complementaryly the different areas relevant to the functioning of the State holding company. Furthermore, a number of suggestions regarding international calls were heard in the debate. The law provides that an international invitation to tender or an international human resources agency shall be issued for the appointment of SDH administration. This means that we can reach significantly more competent people, those who will be able to manage our assets in a responsible manner. The issue of independence of SDH was raised, given that the law provides for the possibility of the participation of the President of the Commission for the supervision of public finances and the Minister of Finance at the meetings of the Supervisory Board, of course without the possibility of making a decision, only in the role of observers. Here we have to draw a parallel with the Bank of Slovenia Act. It also provides that the Minister of Finance may participate in the meetings of the Bank of Slovenia Council. It provides that the President of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy of the National Assembly may participate in the meetings of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia and that no one is likely to think that the Bank of Slovenia is in any way limited in its independence by the participation of the two representatives. Even more, we have the same practice from the European Central Bank. The President of the Euro Group may participate in meetings of the Governing Council of the ECB. And the Commissioner responsible for monetary and financial matters in the EU can participate, and therefore no one doubts the independence of the European Central Bank. Therefore, we believe that the participation of the Minister and the President of the Commission for the supervision of public finances at SDH supervisory board meetings will in no way violate the provision of SDH independence in the management of state property. Several questions were raised regarding privatisation. The government is in the explanations of the law, and I myself wanted to point out in the introductory explanations why we believe that SDH, as a professional asset manager, is the appropriate platform for privatisation. What we're going to privatize, what we're going to sell, is going to be a matter of debate. And this debate will take place here in the National Assembly and the National Assembly will be fully involved in this regard, as it was included in the listing of 15 companies currently in the privatisation process. And for these 15 companies, criteria have also been set for what needs to be pursued through the privatisation process. Clearly, the first criterion is to maximize the purchase. At the same time, the decree clearly lays down other criteria which the DRC, as the main contractor of the privatisation process, must now provide in the privatisation process. These other criteria relate to broader macroeconomic objectives, including employment provision, including the provision of development potentials in Slovenia, including further investment and the development of privatised companies. The next set of questions addressed relates to the patching of the pension allowance. I think that at this point we must point out that, however, it does not apply to working as much as KAD can in the past or in the future contribute to the sustainability of the pension fund. If you look at the incomes of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office today, you will see that about 3.2, 3.3 billion are collected with contributions, about 1.6 billion is added to the state budget, about 50 million is added to the KAD. If you want this in percentages, about 70% is due to contributions, little less than 30% is the transfer of the state budget and about 1% is the transfer of Kad to ZPIZ. Expecting that KAD in any form can contribute significantly to the sustainability of public finances in the long run is a illusion. That's what I think we have to admit. We maintain the basic concept of Kad or the basic purpose of why KAD was established through this law, we also maintain the requirement of transferring 50 million to PPIZ at the annual level so that we can imagine that this will significantly change the sustainability of our pension or public financial system in the long run, but it is only right that we all recognize that this is not the case. Another issue was raised, namely the issue of financing. So SDH will, already the current law of SDH foresees that in the interim period of the SDD part of the management is performed on behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, so it is a matter of payment, assuming that this is also a new proposal, which is before you today, foresees that SDH is covering the management costs of this asset and does not keep the statement that this money is not provided anywhere in the budget today. In particular, item 9521 The cost of managing the country's financial assets in this year's budget provides for a level of funding of approximately EUR 1.2 million, which is intended to cover the costs of managing the country's financial assets. So much for this stage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u79	Thank you very much. It's time for the debate. Ivan Vogrin. I see that he is not in the Chamber, and Mrs Romana Tomc has the word for her, Mr Ivan Simčič and then Mr Borut Ambrožič. Here you go, Mrs. Tomc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u80	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, good day to you, too, on my behalf! First of all, I would like to respond because the Secretary of State has highlighted the assets of Kad and ensuring the stability of the pension fund, a comparison with the law currently in force and the law we have on the table today. In fact, it's one big change or little thing you forgot to mention. In the current law it is stipulated, not only that KAD contributes its assets to the pension fund, but that 10% of the total purchase of SDH assets, not Kad's assets, is allocated to SDH's pension fund. That's a huge difference. I must agree with you here that, of course, the long-term holder of the stability of the pension fund is not the only question, however, whether the funds are earmarked from Kad or from the budget, it is also the other, broader questions, how this asset has been acquired, who has contributed to it and, of course, those who have contributed to it now that they are in the phase when they receive pensions are in some way also entitled to these funds. If you looked as simple as you wanted to present it, then you would not need any cash registers, no health care, no pension and no contributions, nothing. We'd just collect everything with taxes and split it into those places and those areas where we need money. You just can't explain these things. And once again, I warn you, this is a major fraud. At the same time, I wonder what, however, they somehow got in DeSUS for the opposite of agreeing to such, I will say different conditions from now on in the current law, that is to say worse conditions. For under the new law it is no longer provided for the transfer of assets from the sale of state property owned by SDH to the pension fund. The other thing I'd like to touch is the frame. Constituent of the Supervisory Board and all those who will lead the Slovenian State Holding after the new. There's a lot of talk about how it's a professional approach, that politics here has no fingers in it, but, look, if we take a little look at who's calling who, then we'll soon be able to see that this is nothing more than a mere political recruitment. The five members of the Supervisory Board will be confirmed by the National Assembly. Who are we in the National Assembly? Politics. With a simple majority. This is supposed to be a pure political decision. Let's take one step back. Who proposes to the members of the Supervisory Board? They're being proposed by the government. Who's Vlada? Some kind of association, I don't know who? The government is a political body, in the government are politically appointed people, ministers who come from some political parties. In case someone doesn't believe me, why don't you take a look at the list of ministers? And if we go one more step back, the government is going to appoint an expert body with a commission, a very independent commission, which, on the basis of what criteria and criteria, is going to be checked by members of the supervisory boards. Yeah, who's calling this committee? Government, like a political organ. In short, we're in a vicious circle, and whatever you're turning around, at the end of the day, there are five members of the Supervisory Board of Politically Appointed. That is why, of course, our proposal was entirely in place, and it is also now accepted that we should not avoid this political appointment, because we cannot avoid it if we bring proposals to the National Assembly, but at least balance it to determine how many members must be out of any option. Of course, here you have to be absolutely careful that these appointed members are also professionally competent, this has nothing to do with what I want to say. Of course, they must be professional, but the way that the Government proposes all five candidates and that the National Assembly approves them as a whole, forgive me, this is the perfect monopoly of the coalition. Besides, I'd like to draw your attention here to another incident that happened in your marriage. You must have fixed it so many times that such trifling things would go away. While Article 40, when the law provides for the appointment of a Supervisory Board in paragraph 1, clearly states that all members of the Supervisory Board shall be appointed by the National Assembly and in the same Article, paragraph 5, shall read: "... if the Government appoints members of the Supervisory Board who have not been proposed by the Ministry." In short, Your Honor, who's calling the board of supervisors? I would, of course, draw attention to some other things, including management-related personnel, in addition to the human resources commission, which, for my terms, can never be entirely and exclusively professional, but not political, because it is called the Government. To another interesting body, the Economic and Social Committee. This is, for my understanding, as is the case with this law, just some consolation from the social partners who wanted to play their part here. But if we read the law, what this economic and social expert committee is actually doing and what its competences are, then we see that this is an empty shell itself. There will be plenty of people in here who will give their views, their opinions, and propose them to the supervisory board or the SDH administration. The SDH administration will need to be defined by their opinions. Pika. So he has no obligation without taking them into account without taking them into account. I doubt that this can be settled in the SDH statute, which will otherwise be a sub-legal act. However, if so, it would already be stated in the law whether these opinions are binding or not. For if the administration of them only be determined, then the administration shall say, "Thank you for your opinion and good-bye." In short, there are many such shortcomings that indicate that this law is extremely unprofessional, unbalanced and, above all, interesting, lobbyistically prepared material. Initially, colleagues found, and many in the parliamentary positions that we do have a marriage, but it is not being implemented. But I'm returning the question. Why isn't it being implemented? What is the obstacle to non-implementation? The law is a suitable basis. If one feels that it is not a suitable basis, it can also be changed a little bit as to what article is adopted again, but it is a suitable basis. What should I do? It should be immediately, yesterday, not today, adopted a strategy to know what the plans of this country, this government with state assets, are. This delay, which now lasts, let's say, one year, this delay is harmful. It is extremely harmful for the value of state property, which, as Shircelj said, falls from hour to hour. And the time spent preparing a new marriage was wasted. And behind that, I think, is another serious fear. A serious fear of the fact that this government does not mean anything by privatisation or by selling state property. For if I were serious, then I would make every effort to start in this area with some action, with the preparation of documents when absolutely necessary. Not that he boasts long and wide that privatisation has begun and gives, as an example, the example of Helios, who was in the final phase anyway. If we follow the media and look at what happens to the planned sales of some companies. They're all falling into the water, one by one. Why? Why? What's going on here? Who has no serious purpose and who holds a fig in their pocket? And if the Secretary of State has pointed out that the government is harmonised, as far as the law is concerned, I believe him, but I see here that the coalition is not. What a reflection the government of this coalition is sitting in the National Assembly, and then we can think for ourselves. In short, I estimate that the greatest effort has been made here in this law, in particular in the direction of who will manage the state property, who will be appointed to the supervisory councils, how it will be staffed and who will again be the one who will retain the hand and interference over the sale of state property, and much less the effort has been devoted to how and how we will manage this property. In short, like my colleagues – and we in the coalition here – we are obviously the only ones who are somehow discussing and touching this topic, we are interested, while the coalition will still be on the turn, I believe you will be discussing – I think it would be best to keep this law, which we have, which is valid, which is better than what you are proposing, and that the Government will immediately approach the development of a strategy. However, the classification was, as we know, rejected on your part in the National Assembly. Too bad, because if it were adopted at the time, we would probably be in a very different position today than we are.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Simčič has the floor. I see he's not in the hall right now. Here comes Mr Borut Ambrožić's debate. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Richard Braniselj is next. Mr Ivan Grill, then Mr Brane Golubovich, Mrs Alenka Jeraj, and then Mr Velikoj. Here you are, Mr. Richard Branisel. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u82	Thank you very much. In fact, I will not lose words on the Slovenian State Holding Act. In fact, on the one hand, I don't care what this form is going to be, which one day is going to settle down somewhere, and it's supposed to provide some kind of effective management. Let's take this form as soon as possible and keep it that way. I have always advocated that there is always a problem in the performance phase, and if we are talking about the management of state assets so far, we can find that this state property would be managed in a way that is managed in a whole range of good Slovenian companies, we have sometimes said and set an 8% return on capital target, if we find that this asset would be worth 12 billion euros and 8% of the return, where, in fact, national monopolies would even expect even more, we could easily have a billion euro in the budget each year with good governance. And even a number of funding problems would be eliminated. Another major problem is non-transparency, sponsorship, donor contracts, a whole range of contracts, and also executive business lawyers, notarists, I don't know what else. I am convinced that with rationalisation in this area, an additional pair of 100 million would have been easy to come by, instead of making this untransparent and suspicious, in fact, financed, could easily come into the state budget and then financed from the state budget what must otherwise be: education, sport, culture and so on. Transparent, the right way. In fact, I see here a couple of medications, but this thing is going to lead to some point where we're going to say that this state property is giving us what we would expect and it's actually some kind of gold. The first drug is definitely privatisation. Privatisation in one smart way, by making it clear that our assets are for sale at one reasonable price, at the right time, to the right buyer. The other medicine is certainly a sharpening of the criteria, conditions and requirements of our supervisors and our administrations. I think we're too difficult, and the government or the SOD should tighten these conditions. The third drug for better management is the early adoption of a law on access to information of a public nature. If this country is unable to control it, to control it, let us give the opportunity to be controlled by journalists, active citizens, anyone in this country has the opportunity and opportunity to see how transparent the functioning of these companies is, in fact, State-owned. And I am sure that if we use these three medicines in combination with some form of good and smart management, tectonic movements in this area can also occur. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. That's a nice hello to you all. When we hear the debate today mainly by the coalition Members, we can all be deeply concerned again, because the fate of this law, which is now under consideration, is very, very uncertain and, as we see, almost completely uncoordinated. The law that we have adopted, and which, of course, also came into force on the basis of the Constitutional Court's ruling, is one year of the one that has not lived primarily because of the lack of interest of the Government and the current coalition, however obvious to him some, that it was bad, that it did not pursue those objectives that were good for the State of Slovenia, was significantly more coordinated. For a long time, negotiations were held with various stakeholders, and not least with the opposition, and it was finally adopted as it was, but was also harmonised to the greatest extent possible. And since there was no political will then or there were other interests in the background, this law did not begin to be implemented and it was somehow announced, we will prepare a new law, we will prepare new documents that will be better, which will of course start to produce effects. And where are we today? Actually, where we were a year ago. Even the conditionality or need previously stated by Mr Weber here that this law should attach a strategy for the sale of state property – I can, in whole or in part, agree that such a document would be very helpful in some decisions, but I fear that the strategy, as some wish it to be, is impossible to make. Who's gonna make it? Who will be able to write all the parameters that are needed for each company that will be sold: what the company will serve to move forward, how this will be done, who will lead it, and so on. This can be a very general document, and it can usually be a list of wishes, which is ultimately inoperable. And let's say that if some effort was made to reach such a document, I ask myself, or ask the government, and finally the coalition, why didn't you ask for it, why didn't you prepare such a document? Such a document can be fully prepared, even if this law, which is now under consideration, is not adopted. After all, the foundations were all made, not least if we decide to sell off state property, which I think is the only right time and the ultimate time, it could be made. Why is he waiting? I think the answer is in the palm of my hand. Firstly, there is no political will here or there are still interests of some individuals, probably individual lobbyists, that they are not going to sell off state property and that those kindergartens are maintained and that companies are being drawn up and so on. And here, too, such a dilemma, which has already been raised by a coalition MP, if a company sells itself without a strategy, could happen that those new owners of the company are going to bankrupt or fire the workers and that there will be nothing with the company. What happens now that a company is state-owned? It also goes bankrupt because it is mismanaged or deliberately disposed of. If the criteria and, finally, some contractual obligations of the one who would buy a state-owned undertaking or a majority-owned enterprise were to be committed and, above all, to be seen as having an economic interest, it is not expected that someone would invest some money in an undertaking in order, of course, to bring it under water at the shortest possible time, unless it is speculative purchases and the purpose of destroying a potential competitor or current one. See, everything that Minister Chufar pointed out when he was also representing the law in our parliamentary group, where he frankly admitted to us that it was essentially a different version from hour to hour – not about weeks, but from hour to hour. In the morning, we were able to listen to the media, which are key changes in relation to the future in that text proposal. He told us that certain things had already turned out completely, and he could not tell us what the final version of that law would be like today. We can also witness this today, completely out of harmony, each coalition party is looking at its demands fully, with its own eyes, with its expectations, and above all, the biggest criticism of this law, but it is that it wants to be completely politicized by the Government. And what was here then was already exposed, that if he doesn't have this future holding of some property, it means that it will be [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Brane Golubovich has the floor, followed by Mr Velikonja, then Mr Franz Bogovic, Mr Moderndorfer, Mrs Iva Dimic. Here you go, Mr. Golugobic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Madam President. Let's face it, in the past, some kind of monopoly has been played with state property in Slovenia. Selling, buying, trading, borrowing. Remember Istrabenz, Petrol, Mercator, Laško, Svee. All these assets are defined groups of "handala", left, right, upper, lower. And the first attempt, the real attempt was the AUKN, because it wanted to bring all the state property together in one place. The objectives were genuine and the company was not yet ripe for such a merger because the AUKN at the time intervened in the private interests of individual and specific groups. I almost firmly believe that. But to return to our law, and to make some concerns or suggestions for which I do not expect an answer today, but certainly some definition of the ministry until the second reading, is that the law very well determines how to come and who is a member of the supervisory councils. The conditions for membership in the supervisory board of the Slovenian holding company are extremely strict. There are also very strict conditions for members of the board. It seems to me, somehow, that these conditions apply to all down or down-country companies in the Slovenian State Holding. It's hard to imagine that we have such strong conditions for SDH, we don't set these conditions for our subsidiaries, and it's possible that only a membership card is enough, and who do you know? The other thing that's even more important to me is the salaries of managers and the resulting rewards. Personally, I believe that in the times in which we are, the wages of managers should not be free, but we must determine the relationship between the lowest and highest wages in the company. Now we have a relationship, I think five times the average wage in the Republic of Slovenia, but this means that the ratio between the lowest and highest wages today in a company can be higher than in another. Therefore, it would make sense to establish the ratio between the lowest and the highest wages per company, it could be one to five. As far as rewards are concerned. We have seen in the media that a highly qualified management staff should be motivated – yes, as should all employees in this company. And in my opinion, the award should touch everyone. If the company is successful in its business, all employees shall receive the company's business prize. These are three things that I believe need to be prepared for a response to the second reading, namely, the conditions for members of the supervisory board and administration throughout the vertical, the salaries of managers to be in the relationship between the lowest and highest in the company and the award for all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Jožet Velinje is not in the hall, so Mr Marko Pavlišič is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. Mrs Tomc, of course, the members of the Supervisory Board are politically appointed, but they are not necessarily political and unprofessional. But I understand that this is incomprehensible for you, you're acting completely different. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u89	Mr. Pavlišič, just a moment, please stop his time. I'm sitting in a place where I can't replicate, so please don't take advantage of this opportunity.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u90	Okay, skip to the next paragraph. Selling or managing and not selling, as Mr Shircelj said. Thus, Mr Shircelj confirmed one of my suspicions that you never had a serious intention of managing state property, which in a particular case also means selling certain shares. You would manage state assets under the SDS and not SDH. At this point, I fear that the so-called large coalition, the coalition between SDS and SD, is actually very uniform, unfortunately, I have this feeling. But let's go back. The sale or management of an individual company. This is not an issue for an economic and economic owner at all. For how to value a society when you buy it or when you sell it – look at what future financial flows are, and then on this basis you get an estimate of how much it is worth, and usually this price is then determined whether it is 10 times, 7 times, 20 times, depending on the case, the future cash flows. Let's say, purely plastic, if society generates a million profits or income a year, because it doesn't have to be just profit, we can include something else if we want, depending on what we think is important in valuation, we can also think of a broader social dimension, and we can evaluate it, that society brings us so much and so much every year, for example, in some other form, just what we think we need. And for 10 years, it's 10 million. And if we get 20 or 30 year returns for this kind of society, it's definitely a good deal. For the economic owner, it is quite easy whether it is worth selling or perhaps better to manage it. And all these futures you get this way in advance. Jobs remain or are only partially airtight. Risks for future problems of possible recapitalisation, as we have seen in the past, are taken by the buyer and not by the country as in our case. Of course, it looks completely different when political groups have their fingers in the management of these companies. When you find a variety of cash flow circuits beyond the benefits for citizens, and with this we have a problem here in Slovenia. By using state-owned companies for other purposes, not for purposes, I will say the benefits of taxpayers and citizens. In this place there is a search for the causes of this multitude of these beautiful words, which excuse the fact that this matter changes in a way that nothing changes. Now, one of the medicines against this will be adopted in a short form in the form of a new Law on Access to Public Information, which will open up certain data from these companies. So it'll be easier to recognize these uses that happen in these companies, but it's not that final drug. The final rule is either to get these companies into the hands of the right owner, one who has a serious economic purpose for this company, or to manage it as it needs to be managed. When properly evaluated, it is said at the time of sale, such sales are positive both from an economic point of view and from another point of view. At the same time, we can also use such funds to create new jobs. How much is a job worth? Estimates here range from several thousand euros to some 100,000 euros, perhaps more in the case of high-tech companies and suitable jobs. And in recent years we have lost almost 100,000 jobs in Slovenia. Let's multiply, brothers. The population is moving from about a billion to 10 billion, perhaps even some 10 billion euros. In short, after a few billion we have lost in the banking sector and we have already covered them, we have lost an additional few billion in jobs. And the capital we still have can also be used to cover the loss of these jobs. However, this also requires an appropriate business environment, because without it our companies will not succeed or grow or create new jobs. This is not the purpose of this law, but it is also closely linked to this law, or even better, to the management of state-owned enterprises in a broader sense. Proper management, of course, requires an appropriate business environment. Without this, only state-owned monopolistic organisations of the combined work can succeed, which are disruptive and not desirable in the market economy. Really hard to understand, really hard, how someone in the same sleep can advocate for some new forms of cooperation, cooperatives, for some new forms of business, startups, for new ways of financing, mass funding – Kickstarter is, for example, one such beautiful example, where Slovenians have recently been very successful in Slovenian projects. Unfortunately, they have to register for this in America so that they can then cooperate and acquire funds through it. In short, someone is advocating for all these new, good forms, while at the same time advocating the binding of capital into old forms, old business models, old technologies. This, forgive me, is incomprehensible to me that not one side supports something new, good, but at the same time in the same breath we stand for everything to remain the way it is, and that our capital, the capital of citizens, remains tied up in these old forms and old technologies. There are no major concerns regarding the management of the profession's assets. The economic theory here is perfectly clear, and if we took it into account, we wouldn't have any of these problems. We just wouldn't have them, but unfortunately we still haven't cut the popcorn with the theory of political economy, where politics comes first and the economy comes second, so it's a political economy. We still haven't broken up with that. And as long as we don't stop it, we'll have the situation we have. And the law is not the law itself, the law is just the framework, as I explained it before, but it will be the appointment of the SDH supervisory board, the policy will appoint this supervisory council, and this supervisory council can be political and unprofessional, or it will be professional. It can work on theory, but it can work on economic theory, modern economic theory, or it can work on the theory of political economy. That is what we will see when these names come to the National Assembly to be confirmed or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Pavlishich. Mr. Frangež, it's your turn anyway, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u92	Otherwise, I'd ask for a replica. Now I understand, Mr. Mark Pavlišič, I'm obviously going personally on my nerves. Truth be told, Marco, you're not a very nice person to me, either. But I must admit the following, that I would not even burden myself with this if I did not deliberately engage in my debate, I will say, the political views and emphasis of my client, your coalition partner. That is why I expect so much respect for us as partners that you do not turn political views into creating some great coalition for the sale of Slovenia, because our views, as far as this is concerned, are sincere and clear. We're not for sale. And yes, we represent another political economy, another economic theory. And let me tell you that, contrary to the general idea, Slovenia has not brought about this deep crisis to such an extent the errors of domestic capitalism have contributed greatly to this abyss in which we have been wronged by world neoliberalism, an unbridled and freed smart regulation by society. Because, respectable, the economy here is not only about making profits, but about serving the interests of society and people. And, Mr Marko Pavlišič, I want you to be the right coalition partner, and I ask you to stop such abuses.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Frangezh. First, I'll give Mr. Pavlišić a chance to replicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u94	Dear Mr Frangež, you have clearly identified yourself somewhere in this context. I didn't mention you, but if you understood this as some kind of insult or assault on you personally, I apologize most deeply. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Pavlishich. Anyone else want a word on the motion? Here you go, Mr. Shircel, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u96	Procedurally yes, Madam Vice President. My procedural proposal is that the debaters stick to the topic on the agenda. This is a law on state holding, but there is no political debate on the new political coalitions, because the positions of the parties here in the National Assembly are already among the coalition partners regarding the Slovenian State holding company so different, so divergent and they go in different ways that, in fact, you cannot actually harmonise any law. Therefore, do not seek out political partners outside your party, you will adapt, your party, such or other coalition, and you will probably be another third if you may ever come to the National Assembly again and that is why I would ask you, Mr Pavlisic, even when you talk about the political economy and so on, you need to know that there are still subjects of the political economy and the political economy of various social systems, so that you can actually wish for a little basic knowledge from the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Perhaps you were not paying attention, Mrs Kociprova, there was a procedural proposal at the outset. Here you are, Mr Jerovšek had a procedure before.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Madam President, I would like Members of the coalition parties to refrain from showing the dissonance, the proclamation of this coalition. We know that some customers hate each other to death, but they don't have to show it here. Every night we witness coalition party leaders' meetings and they can't meet there. For three months now, as long as new ministers are not proposed, citizens know that you are incompetent and that you do not understand each other, that you are speaking here, that you are presenting this publicly and that you are burdening the work of the National Assembly, and I think it is incorrect for those constructive parts of Parliament that are also making constructive proposals for laws. For this reason, Madam President, if anything like this should happen again, give a serious reminder to such Members and send them to serious work. Here used to be the "missed error" syntagma. Yeah, if there's a mistake, then there's no mistake! Mr. Frangež has introduced a new name for something. This really does not need to be heard here, all of us, the Slovenian public sees that this government is incapable of ruling and that this coalition is not capable of ruling, but please do not show it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u99	Thank you very much. However, I must say that I am pleased that this debate has become a little more dynamic in this final phase, despite the fact that Mr Pavlisič was somewhat harsh in his debate, but I do not think he was offensive, nor did other debaters. Mrs. Renata Brunskole. Before that, Mr Marko Pogačnik had a proposal for a procedural procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u100	Madam President, thank you for the floor. I suggest that Mr Pavlišič first take a little closer look at the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly to read the magnetograms concerning the procedures of the State holding back to look at history. I think it was very misleading on his part and irresponsible. I think it is necessary to look at ourselves in the mirror first, to see what the Civil Code was doing in this holding company, to see that when we came with the classification in the National Assembly, that one day before the committee both the leader of the parliamentary group and the co-workers gave assurance that they would support the classification. The next day it was rejected; and this is the Civil Gazette, which is made up of such important and so exemplary policies. But from the actions of the distinguished representatives of the Civil Code, it will be necessary to move on – I mean, from words to actions. [[…]] The funny thing is that Mr Pavlišič connects here in this holding company, that SD and SDS are giving each other a coalition when we are actually completely on different shores. Once again, I suggest, Mr Pavlisic, read the magnetograms back, read the Slovenian State Holding Act and then come to the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u101	Mrs. Renata Brunskole, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u102	Gradually, thank you very much, Mr President! I strongly oppose such performances, such as the performance by fellow Member Jožet Jerovšek, who insulted Members of the Parliament and Members of the National Assembly. I know it's his way of performing, but we can't just accept that kind of practice. I believe that the Members and Members elected by the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, to whom we have been entrusted, do not deserve such insults and assessments and underestimation of any of the Members and Members and any of the political parties. Please do not allow such debates in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u103	Thank you very much, colleague Brunskole, but I did not notice – just for a moment, Mr Jerovšek – I did not see the insult, but I would certainly ask you here, what do you think was offensive in this speech, so we will know for another time. Because I have serious problems with assessing when a speech is offensive or not offensive. Please, if you'll help me with this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u104	Thank you very much. The Magnetogram will give a detailed account of what was being said, but let me just say that the evaluation was "incompetent".
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u105	Well, if you think that's what happened, I respect your comment. Here you are, Mr Jerovšek, once more on a procedural basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Madam President. You have just found that there was nothing offensive about my performance, but there was a very severe conflict earlier between the two coalition members, and I do not know if Mr Frangež said that Mr Pavlisic was "missing error". That's already a logical nonsense in itself. Now, if this was personal, it means it was an insult. But I would like to say that I was talking about the inability of the government and the coalition to manage this country. That's a fact, and that's not an insult. It's not an insult to me because I was unwarrantedly accused of an insult. Please give Mrs. Renati Brunskole a reminder.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u107	Thank you very much for your proposal, Mr Jerovšek. This is also your subjective judgement. I will not give any warning to my colleague Renata, but it is time to calm this debate and bring it to a close somehow. In this part, the government representative shall have the floor if he wishes. [[He doesn't want to.]] Okay, then we'll finish this work, but I find, I think there's still enough time left for any time-sharing applications. I'll open the door. Would anyone like to sign up? It is open time to report to the debate. Yeah, sure. In the meantime, the Secretary of State also announced the allocation of time. Would you like Mr. Mavko's word now? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u108	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Mr Secretary of State! I'm disappointed, it's too serious a topic that we're dealing with here, and at least the coalition should be here at least two-thirds present. But every Member is free. I remember, I think it was the first meeting, the first meeting of the then informal Committee on Finance, immediately after the establishment of the National Assembly in 2011. Among other things, I know that Mr Jankovic was not present at this meeting of the Committee on Finance, but that former Finance Minister Križanič was present and we were talking about privatisation, and I was saying at that time that private property is the right property, which also provides for fair corporate governance and that somehow we should make a mental leap and give more emphasis to private property or privatisation until now still many businesses in state ownership. At that time, Mr Križanič somehow urged me to go to the neighbours of Hungary to see what had happened to him, because I am a neighbor there and Well, today we can all see, Hungary has growth and Slovenia has tons. [[…]] I hope that Mr Križanič also reads this information. But apparently not, on the last TV show, Target didn't actually indicate that he would be familiar with this information. I'm not for sale. As you know, in fact in the New Slovenia Group we are actually patriotic and we would really like to find enough capital at home, domestic investors who could enter the process of privatising Slovenian state-owned companies. But if we look today, ladies and gentlemen, statistics. Statistics say the following. Last year, 780 foreign companies in Slovenia employed approximately the same workers as 213 companies owned by the country, as demonstrated by a survey recently published at the Ljubljana house Bisnode. According to the data of the survey in which those companies that met the operating criteria – at least three years, at least five employees and are not in insolvency or in liquidation – were under close supervision, 780 foreign companies recorded slightly more than 43,000 employees in 2012. 213 state-owned companies are comparable to 2 000 less employees. It's all good and good. It is interesting to note, however, that the good two hundredths of state-owned enterprises, namely 213, were covered in a survey in which, last year, just as in foreign employees, just over 40 thousand, which I have already mentioned, generated 8.9 billion revenue from sales, 780 foreign companies in Slovenia, and about 20% more, one fifth more, that is 10.9, almost 11 billion euros in sales revenue. The analysis also clearly shows greater productivity of foreign-owned companies. But what's the problem, ladies and gentlemen? What we have seen is that, in fact, the coalition simply has no concept. Here I am to take in the defence of Minister Chufer, who, as I have already said in the position of our parliamentary group, told the opposition that he has major problems and that the best law would be implemented as it was adopted, even in cooperation with the opposition at the time. And here's the problem! Time is running, and Slovenia is sinking with a square of time, not linear. That's what worries me, ladies and gentlemen! Look, just a little while before this law is passed or the coalition adopts, there will be a lot of internal acts, then there will be parliamentary holidays, and soon we will be in the 2015 election year, which is still an irrational year, and with state property, nothing will happen again, and every day will be less valuable. But if we have other opinion leaders such as the former minister, the former dean of the Faculty of Economics, who says that Adria Airways is not here to make a profit, but so that people can travel – look, then it's over with state property!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Horvath. It's mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u110	Madam President, thank you for the floor. We have come to the real realization that the current coalition has been changing in the area of asset management or has stopped for more than a year. In December, at the request of the SDS Group, we had an extraordinary meeting on the governance of state property. Today, at the request of the SDS, we have the first general debate. This means that the SDS party does not care how state assets are managed. The SDS party has always advocated the fact that it supports privatisation on condition that it is transparent and that all stakeholders can participate equally in privatisation. I am personally concerned and deeply disappointed by today's debate. In particular, by coalition members, since it was already apparent in December that the coalition was divided and, after today's debate, we can come to the conclusion that this coalition is even more important on different shores than it was in December. And the Secretary of State, I really want to know why you put this law into the National Assembly. Did you expect us to support him here by the opposition, by the SDS – we have somehow told you at these talks where our concerns are, why we will not support this law? - or for what? Because with coalition partners, I see that you have no support or that you have it in the minority. What is disturbing to us is that in this law that you have drawn up, the government completely subjugates its state property and realize that state property is not the property of the government, but the government is responsible to manage it. And also not transferring ownership to SDH means that we will not be able to talk about management, but that we will talk about governance. In fact, capital adequacy or financial stability is also questioned here. If there is no transfer of property, there is no holding company without ownership. As far as the SDS is concerned, I have said that in these presentations, when you came to us, that you have taken into account some of our proposals, which I consider to have been justified, you have also taken some of our proposals into account from these public debates, but those two key issues: the supervisory board, the transfer of ownership and, of course, some other minorities, such as the strategy. Because this law foresees that, even if this law is adopted, this law is likely to be adopted within one month, and cannot be adopted for two months, the strategy for the management of state property has not been adopted until one year. It is said that there is a legal void that they will be able to use primarily for ad hoc privatisation and, of course, we will not be involved in this. However, we appeal to the government that this is very important, because privatisation could probably significantly reduce Slovenian public debt and it would not be necessary to pay excessively high interest in closed external markets. At the end of the day, I would probably – in view of today's debate, I do not rule out that this law will not go any further. It's the coalition that needs to be united here! You are the one who can bring this law through, Sir Pavlišič, but not here to attack us. I think the SDS party here was very correct. You remember, you're a coalition partner, you were in the previous coalition, but somehow you went through this out with a fig in your pocket – at least in holding and classification. I repeat: one day before the committee you confirmed that you would support the classification, and the next day you did not do so. Because of other interests. It's too serious a matter for the government to subjugate this property. I would also have a question for the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, given the actual blight of the coalition today, in such different opinions in this law. We all know that this law has been prepared by an external service or contractor, and I am interested in the cost of the Ministry of Finance or taxpayers in preparing this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! I am also interested in who wrote this law, not only because of the cost it entailed, but mainly because this law seems to be a complete surprise for this coalition and is totally out of harmony. Not only in individual provisions, but also in terms of the whole strategy! A completely different – and this is a divergent, not a convergence strategy on the one hand between the Civil Gazette and the Social Democrats on the other. Both are strategies, but completely different. For this reason, I am actually interested in whether there may be some interest in this law, to say the third, some lobbyists who actually control this property today, and those lobbying behind them. Some say uncles, maybe they're pigs, anyway, it's about who's actually behind this, because someone's already running this property today. And today, someone controls property through Soda, through Kato, through PDP In short, we have five institutions that manage this property and manage it poorly. [[…]] Why are they mismanaging? This is because the State has none of this because it has no dividends; and therefore it must raise taxes and, of course, taxpayers and taxpayers must pay for the errors and delusions of the managers of these capital shares, these companies and, of course, also for the errors and delusions of this government. I'm actually interested in whose interest this text of the law is written here. Is there a third person standing here? Because, even if this happens, even if this law were to be passed and if the coalition were to be unified, I think there would be no effect; because there is neither centralisation nor concentration here and there is no possibility that the state holding company would start working effectively. Everything is moving, there are a lot of transitional periods, companies have to join another company within six months, SDH will start operating at best 1. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. If one year ago, I think, Mr Weber said that if the value of the property was then 12 billion, I think that the value of this property, which is the property of citizens and citizens, is now half lower, is six billion. I'd like to know how much assets will be in one year. Because where state property is the most concentrated, for example energy, today we have the problem of TES 6 which is exasperating and exasperating and, last but not least, TES 6 has liquidity problems, as the Director-General says. The government cannot dream of dividends, the state will have to and the government will have to worry about recapitalising Slovenian energy in addition to banks if it does not want to be an energy eclipse in Slovenia. Because if energy doesn't work, then we're in the dark. Here I would like and it is the responsibility of both governments and these coalitions to actually do something about asset management. We do not want to be in the dark, and citizens and citizens do not want to be in the dark. For this reason, I would suggest that the coalition gathers to unite with the Government, with those who have written this law, and that it actually approaches the new law once already, or that it at least begin to manage it effectively.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Now we have one disappointment, but I ask the Minister, Mr. Secretary of State has spoken to you earlier. Do you want to take the floor? [[…]] [[No, no, ……]] Then we conclude the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Tuesday, 4 in accordance with the meeting's timetable. 2., in the context of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. And we're going to move on to 15. PERIOD OF THE DAY – This is first of all a proposal for a law supplementing the Banking Act. The draft law was tabled by a group of six-and-twenty Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. Also, a group of twenty-six Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank in connection with this bill requested the State Election to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representatives of the proposers to the Magi Act. Andrew Shirtzle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, with co-workers and coworkers, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose to supplement the Banking Act with two or three articles which in fact stipulate that confidentiality is eliminated for data if the Bank has received State aid or the Bank is subject to measures under the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks, or if this data is required by the National Assembly, the National Assembly's working body or the National Assembly's investigation committee. What is it, ladies and gentlemen, about this marriage? It is that before or late 2013 we were aware that banks in Slovenia have almost 5 billion holes and that three state or parastatal banks have been recapitalised with almost three billion euros in tax money. On the other hand, the National Assembly is a legislative body and has a certain responsibility. We also have a certain responsibility for all Members and Members of Parliament; in particular the responsibility to determine the effects, whether positive or negative, of the laws adopted. Some laws have proved ineffective and control over banks in this case, including by the Bank of Slovenia, has been ineffective. The National Assembly formally supervises the Bank of Slovenia, which in fact means that Banka Slovenije presents its annual report or reports to the National Assembly or the Working Body of the National Assembly at extraordinary meetings of Banka Slovenije. However, at this point and at this time, this is actually too little; it is not enough for Members and Members to have information that shows that they are in state banks or in those banks that receive state aid – to obtain such information that would allow us sufficient control. Sufficient supervision and, of course, also on the basis of sufficient supervision, the responsibility of those who make decisions in banks and also that banks can operate transparently. As this turned out to be the end of 2013, and since citizens and citizens have recapitalised these banks, the responsibility of both the opposition and the coalition is even greater. For this reason, I propose that the coalition and the opposition support the proposal of the law, first of all, that it goes into further consideration, and later that the responsibility of banks be increased – here I mean mainly the supervisory councils of banks, the banks' administrations – so that, for those loans, the bad loans that can or which also mean criminal responsibility, those who have issued them will, of course, also be held accountable. Given that the bank recovery is not yet concluded that some banks will still be subjected to stress tests this year or next year – I think there will certainly be an SID bank that is 100 % state-owned – this proposal by the Slovenian Democratic Party is even more justified. I therefore expect that both coalition and opposition parties, which have both said several times that more responsibility must be demanded in this area, will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Dr. Chufer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u116	Thank you very much for the words, honourable President, Members and Members of Parliament! Maybe I should just mention two things. Firstly, the fact that banking secrecy is essentially an important element of banking activity on the one hand and in the other is that the transparency of banking operations itself, as well as the search for and detection of prosecution of crime and injury in banks, is also an important activity. So there were some activities here, some activity in the past already done. I would point out that a law has recently been passed regulating banking in important articles. At the same time, I would also say that we will also have to be very careful in the future how to actually balance one direction and another. This will be followed with attention and interest by a further debate in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Minister. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. As the first Mr Jožef Horvat, he has the word on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u118	Thank you very much for your words, again, Madam Vice-President. Dear Mr. Minister, Dr. Chufer, with colleagues, dear colleagues and colleagues! When I asked the President of the Government at the December meeting of the National Assembly what the scenario was, after the results of the stress tests were known, after the banks were recapitalised, what was the scenario that, in some foreseeable time in Slovenia, they would finally get the normal banking system back, and what was the scenario for the investigation, which was to give a set of responsible people who were guilty or guilty of a bank hole, which strongly hit every taxpayer, current and future generations. There were no concrete answers, but in the public statement I then realized that Mrs President had stated that if it was necessary to investigate, to find the responsible people, we would change the Banking Act as well. That's a statement from the President of the Government. So we're going to change the Banking Act to find the culprits for the bank hole. This proposal for the amendment of the law of colleagues from the SDS is somehow following this and is actually helping the President of the Government. Bank secrecy, of course we also agree with this, banking secrecy is a fundamental assumption, it is in fact a supreme postulate for the operation of each banking system and is the basis for the trust of banking committees in the business of banks and other credit institutions. Bank secrecy means a commitment by the bank not to disclose to third parties information on the property status of the commissioners, except in exceptional cases provided for by law. The basic purpose of bank secrecy must be based on the above-mentioned basis. As with each institution, bank secrecy must also have adequate safeguards that prevent the misuse of bank secrecy to cover up tax evasion, money laundering, non-execution and even cover up illegal or criminal acts. The legal arrangements for exemptions from bank secrecy must therefore be laid down in such a way as to allow supervisory and other State authorities access to data that enable the effective management of their powers. Banka Slovenije has the most important supervisory function over banks and other credit institutions. In Novi Slovenije we have seen that in Banka Slovenije a new wind has struck in terms of strengthening the control function. We will always, if this is of course an express wish, strive to strengthen our control resources in the Bank of Slovenia. So that we will never again experience the bank hole that happened to us, hoping that, of course, the new hole is no longer being created. And here, if the Minister is to do so, we will give him all the support to strengthen the supervisory function of the Bank of Slovenia. We think this one's humanely malnourished, too. Of course, when we talk about the banking system, we must be aware that we are part of the Eurosystem; it is said that the legal solutions must be compatible with the Eurosystem's definition. The National Assembly has an important supervisory function in the banking system, Banka Slovenije is obliged to report to the National Assembly once a year in its operations, and the function of the National Assembly is even more important than the legislative body that decides on the use of public funds. A bank hole has been created, in particular a majority state-owned bank, as well as some private banks, and is and will largely be financed by budgetary means, i.e. by taxpayers' money. The National Assembly and its working bodies shall be informed of the information on the credits granted, their height, the names of the persons who granted the loans and the persons who accepted the loans. As the country's highest legislator, the National Assembly must be aware of the period in which such irregularities and illegality in the operation of banks may have occurred and whether this has led to a possible lack of banking legislation. The function of the National Assembly is also to determine the responsibility of supervisors to create such a situation. However, all these answers can only be obtained if the National Assembly is informed of business data in those banks which will be saved by tax money. The proposed additions to the Banking Act aimed at eliminating banking secrecy for the purposes of the National Assembly, the home work bodies of the National Assembly and the investigative commissions are logical and necessary to ensure the normal work of the National Assembly and its working bodies. We also, of course, expect the Bank of Slovenia to deliver its opinion on the proposal for this marriage text. The Christian Democrats of New Slovenia will therefore be supported by the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Banking Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Horvath. On behalf of the Group Positive Slovenia, Mrs Aleksandra Osterman.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, distinguished colleagues, colleagues! Today we are considering a proposal to supplement Article 215 of the Banking Act, although the existing regime is appropriate and allows detection and prosecution authorities to disclose the information they need to determine liability in the event of irregularities in banking. When we considered the decision to liquidate the Probank and the Bank Factor, the applicant requested data which, in all countries, democratic and even those slightly less democratic, are described as bank secrecy. So for at least six months, we have been hearing about the reasons for revealing the eligibility to disclose, I stress, bank secrecy. And what is bank secrecy? Bank secrecy is the bank's business secret; it is the basic assumption of every stable banking system. However, the concept of bank secrecy implies the bank's legal duty to protect the data on the property status of its customers and to refuse any third party request for the transmission of such information. Exceptions to the obligation to protect data may only be determined by law or under the authority of the Commissioner. Of course, we are aware that the commentants would not deposit money into the bank and thus trust it with information about their assets if the bank could not secure the trust of bank transactions. Under the terms of banking secrecy, we understand all the data and facts about the Commissioner, the facts and circumstances with which the Bank is located, irrespective of how it obtained these data. Members of the authorities, shareholders or shareholders and employees of the bank or other persons who, in relation to their work in the bank or in the management of the services of the bank, have in any way access to confidential information from the parties, shall not communicate such data to third parties, nor shall they themselves use or enable them to be used by third parties, except in cases specified by law. These prohibitions are defined in Article 215 of the Banking Act. Today, we will consider a proposal to supplement this article, which will also open confidential bank data to the National Assembly, its investigative bodies and other working bodies. Just so, unselectively, but perhaps we would limit ourselves only to banks that have received state aid, even some selection. Of course, according to our own conscience, we would decide which data to demand, use, and also manipulate them. Your Honor, this is a populism but anticipated move that does not surprise us. Some, on the other hand, sincerely believe that they have absolute authority in their hands to accuse and condemn, without judgment. At the same time, one wonders, of course, who needs the Constitution and the distribution of power, who needs the police, the prosecution and the judiciary, or the PKK or anyone. Of course, you are willing to change even the laws, only to achieve the goal and you have legitimate work. For us the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the practice of the whole world is important, which is of course normal. Just as it is important to comply with constitutional provisions, it is important to trust that banks that have received state aid do not fail. Is it merely a coincidence that the applicant has forgotten to limit the validity of such a provision? So a bank would be bound to such an article forever. The target just excuses the means. Dear Members, the Group of the Positive Slovenia of such a law that would bring us back to the early Middle Ages, as far as democracy and democracy are concerned, cannot support us in this country. The bill is populist and harmful for banks and for the reputation of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u121	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u122	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party of SDS tabled a proposal for a amendment to the Banking Act, I would say, with only one purpose; in the Slovenian Democratic Party we were the first to draw attention to the issue of the banking system with the establishment of a bad bank in 2009. If there is a bad, negative light that Slovenia is throwing into the world, in our opinion, about €6 billion is a big bank hole, and because of this bank hole, no one has answered today in Slovenia, no one has offered a resignation and no one has been resolved. I think this is a bad light cast in Europe and the world by Slovenia. The aim and purpose of the amendment of the Banking Act, according to the SDS, is now that both state and private banks are being rehabilitated at the expense of taxpayers' money. And in our view, it would be responsible and fair for taxpayers to find out who they are saving with their money. We have proposed such a proposal to amend the law already in the so-called supervised liquidation of two private banks, but coalition members have rejected it. In the SDS it seems fair to us if someone is being handled privately by taxpayers, when in the event of bankruptcy or other form it would not be necessary to disclose this information. In the SDS, we estimate that a number of Members or a number of members of the coalition misinterpret this change. First of all, it should be pointed out that the SDS does not intend to obtain certain personal accounts and data on the state of certain persons, as some have interpreted it, but only by obtaining, on the one hand, the one responsible for the situation in the banking system and, on the other hand, by revealing to taxpayers who, on the other hand, are being disposed of by means of certain levers for which no law provides that they are actually entitled not to lose the funds of those who have deposits above EUR 100,000. In particular, the proposed law is intended, as I have already mentioned, to disclose the responsibility of those who participated in the granting of loans without adequate guarantees, and also in cases where the Bank has received aid. We estimate that this would be the minimum step if we were to take responsibility for the situation, and I am sure that it is also in the interest of all coalition Members and Members of Parliament, for which we taxpayers were forced to rehabilitate the banking system of more than €6 billion. This amendment does not say that these data could be hung on any advertising board in different places and that anyone would have access to this data. No! No! But only because the National Assembly is aware of certain data at certain times when tax money is involved. Of course, it is important to realize that this information is confidential and that those in the National Assembly who come to this information will have to deal with it confidentially. However, at a given time, coalition Members do not understand this, at least some of them. The position of certain parliamentary groups, which have already been presented, goes in this direction. We merely estimate that it would be fair and responsible to make a change here, not that both Banka Slovenije and individual banks are hiding behind this law and that they do not give up the material to the investigating commission to determine irregularities in the banking system. We will certainly support our proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but we appeal to all other Members and Members to consider what this change actually means, that this change is not as wide as some imagine that the key data that must remain in the bank will remain confidential, confidential and secret, and that this is not about the witch hunt for some individuals, but that it will come to a conclusion, up to, I would say, easier way to identify the responsibility for the situation in the Slovenian banking system. I would like to repeat: the taxpayers in Slovenia will be rehabilitated for the second time. In addition to all these recapitalisations, taxpayers are also rehabilitating two smaller private banks, and I think it would be fair that this bill, which has been tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party in the procedure of the National Assembly, is supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Master Pogacnik. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matvež Frangež, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u124	Respected and respected! Again, we have before us a proposal for a law, which, and its similar version, has already been decided by the National Assembly. We would like to stress that our position cannot be understood in any way as an attempt to avoid legitimate disclosure of all those practices that have contributed to the emergence of a large bank hole in Slovenia. We stress, however, that precision is needed. Banks and banking aren't to be played with! This should teach us so far, a very expensive experience. This is why the coalition, in the face of public commitments already made, has ensured that the Public Information Access Act will address the issue of transparency of the data to which taxpayers and taxpayers in that country will have to answer the question for which they take on the greater public financial burden for the implementation of bank recovery. We believe that, by means of solutions in the Public Information Access Act, we have chosen a healthy measure between the interest to be informed of publicly relevant data and, on the other hand, to the Institute of Banking secrecy as the basis of the modern banking system. Probably none of us have any valuable obstacles to think about what it's like to go through the credit maps of the big companies that have fallen into this crisis. Especially if the names of the notorious tycoons are behind these companies. But let's think about the thousands of citizens and citizens who have come into trouble because of the economic and social situation and have delays in settling their credit obligations, i.e. by returning their loans to banks, and can be treated by banks as bad investments and these banks are receiving bank recovery measures. Imagine that you are in a situation where, because of a situation that you may not be completely at fault, you find yourself in a situation where a member or a member of an investigative committee is searching for a credit card that was the basis for a decision on your housing loan. It is therefore necessary to be precise, because if there is no precision in protecting bank secrecy, we are actually jeopardising the banking system as a whole. Furthermore, the remaining confidence in the banking system is lost and, as we like to emphasise, the money is a shy bird and the banking system will only be condemned to bigger problems. But this, on the other hand, must not be an excuse for people in our country, with a very clear demand to find out what happened in Slovenia and why the burdens of this crisis are so great – that this would not be cleared. That is why we are actively involved by the Social Democrats in the investigation committee of this National Assembly, although we have no doubt that we have substantial expectations of law enforcement authorities, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, the police, the prosecutions, that with the procedures that have been initiated and those that are yet to follow up, these responses will come to a much more effective conclusion than the political body of the National Assembly. Moreover, the Social Democrats have carefully considered the Commission's 15 recommendations to prevent corruption and we agree with their findings that due to the scale of the problem, due to the great interrelationship of the actors, Slovenia would also be the most appropriate public investigation in Iceland. A public investigation, based on a specific law linking existing institutions for the detection and prosecution of criminal offences, armed them with the necessary additional powers and provided independent management of such an investigation. In Iceland, such an investigation produced its results and we believe that such an investigation in Slovenia would significantly make it easier and more effective to give results than an investigation in the National Assembly. Despite our creative cooperation with the investigative commission, we must stress that the transitional challenges of banking secrecy and the requests referred by the investigative commission to the court are in place to make our claims more precise. The Commission of Inquiry has so far requested the Court and Business Banks to disclose all credits corresponding to those credit classes, in accordance with the act determining the parliamentary investigation. I think that the search will need to be focused and, after the first round of hearings that are taking place, some targeted cases will need to be selected and information obtained on them and around them will begin to conclude the ring of this investigation. We are therefore of the opinion of the Social Democrats that, with the Act on Access to Public Information, we will deal more precisely and better with the issue of accessibility and transparency to data which are clearly of interest to the public. On the other hand, we remain allies of more effective detection and prosecution methods for the bank hole in Slovenia. Therefore, we will not support the Banking Act this time, as proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Frangejo. The Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party is next. Mr. Franz Bogovich, please. No, what's your turn, Mr Pavlisic has given up the presentation.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u126	Thanks, given the schedule, it was different. Nice greetings again, including the distinguished minister, greetings, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the law on the amendment of the Banking Act, which is trying to correct what we all attach to at the declaration level in the Republic of Slovenia, and when it comes to implementation, we are in favour of, and somehow we are in a position to stop thinking and there are other proposals quickly. We are talking about this problem, in the area of banking secrecy, bank business secrets, bank autonomy, non-involvement of banking policy, although we are all aware of the importance of banking secrecy and of all these basic apostolics of banking. In the autumn of last year, a few months ago, we tried several times when we accepted such a guarantee that the two tycoon banks went into liquidation, as well as after the second part of the Public Finance Act, when we provided funds for this recapitalisation, the rehabilitation of Slovenian banks, was an attempt to do something about this transparency. Similarly today, it has been said that the proposal is unhappy, incomplete, that we are aware that something should be done, but banking secrecy and all these things around which we speak are ahead of all that we must do. I must say that we will have to know more than ever that we are responsible for a lot of things in this country, responsible for taking measures on the basis of which we owe even more to the future of Slovenians and Slovenians because of the things that have happened in banks. And all the while, this argument that we don't have the right, that we can't, and that, by some strict rules, things have to go on there, these things just don't hold up anymore. I myself remember how the former Finance Minister, Mr Šuštaršič, attempted to obtain some information, then a ministerial colleague with whom we were in government when he tried to prepare a project, a concept of how to proceed with the rehabilitation of the bank. He just ran into a closed door and there was nothing to talk about, and the bank stampede went his way. The current Minister of Finance and the President of the Government have also insisted to all of us that they do not know what a bank hole will be, because they are rules and so on. We've recently heard of the problems that prosecutors and police have as they enter this door. We all know that in these years, there have been many things that have happened to sign 100 million loans, on the basis of which the entire type of crimes and wrong decisions have certainly been committed. If we are to take a step forward in this area, it will simply be necessary to look into the face, to assess individual cases and to take appropriate action. All of us have also received a recommendation from the anti-corruption commission, which is talking about setting up a public and transparent investigation of the bank hole, which has already been mentioned. From this recommendation, I should like to read the conclusion of this report: "At the initiative of the Minister of Finance this July, the KPK carried out a comprehensive review or assessment of corruption risks in the enforcement of the Bad Bank Act and found a catastrophic situation. Reports were sent to the President of the Government, the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, the Minister of Finance and other responsible persons. We have received great moral support and promises that these things will be taken into account in further legal changes. With the latest amendment to the Banking Act, the KPK proposed the public's most problematic investments. The law was passed without it. In short, in many other countries where a decade ago – Germany – or recently – Ireland – had been rehabilitated by the banking system, the key data were public and it will have to be the same in Slovenia if we are to achieve a long-term improvement in the situation, after all it has been known that transparency is the worst enemy of corruption." A very eloquent message, but as we listen to the views of the members of the groups today, we see that when such reports come, we are filled with the mouth of adherence to such recommendations when it is necessary to do so, to legalise, to hide ourselves in our holes and to insist on the old clichés that have brought us where we are today. I was recently at the round table in Brussels, where, in addition to the German finance minister, Mr Schäuble, the Spanish Minister responsible for the economy and competitiveness also participated and explained how they had repaired the bank hole and what was important to them. He said that, first of all, it was very important that they were able to obtain the €42 billion on smart terms for closing the bank hole and that, in all the other reforms, the structural ones they carried out had driven the development wheel in the right direction. In the same breath, he said: "Just as important as it is that we get this money, that money is under the right conditions, it is also that there is no doubt about the bad claims and that transparency is ensured in this area and that all transactions are clean." I think we all know that now, and we are all attested to by this, and the Commission's recommendations to prevent back-up corruption are very clear. However, once the legislative proposals arrive at the table, we are again very reserved. Most of all, we find that something is missing, something is wrong. I mean, if you get a hand of support, and I think we should all work together, that's the law; okay, if that's not right, let's make one that's okay. But the fact that we will simply hide and never agree that we will have to follow a transparent path forward, these times are, in my deep belief, behind us. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have tried and cooperated with the amendments already, as I said, last year, so we support this attempt as well. It is right to do our first reading, to say more than we oppose it, because obviously the law does not come from the right kinds to get support in Parliament, and to carry out our responsible task. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are also horrified to see what is happening now in the Claims Management Society and we firmly believe that certain tanks need to be removed in this area as well. Even with the solutions listed here. That's why we proposed, and it's for Tuesday, 11. 2. The urgent meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy has been convened to discuss what is happening to us there. It's no use to be surprised when something's going on, what's going on there, and if we're responsible for the laws that these people are working on. The Governor of Banka Slovenije is also here when we talked about measures to establish the conditions for the start of a bad bank and also later for the repair of the bank hole alone, said he would be happy to say more if the marriage framework allowed him. We're the ones who set these frames. And if that is the law and all these efforts, both by the commission and the proposer, go in the direction of talking about those banks and those things that made the bank hole. We are talking about the things that Slovenia has been in charge of now for, I don't know, at least EUR 5 billion – I am not so sure that this is the last portion, if I may say so, of this banking gambling in recent years, but at this point every Slovenian is owed 2 000 500 Euros more due to this work in banks and companies. And if this is not enough reason to think about it now and accept these frameworks, that this will no longer happen and that through transparency we will have an opportunity to look at these things, I do not understand. We are talking about the limited approach of authorised people who are, and we are talking about those people who ultimately have the right to accept this responsibility, that we owe people 2 000 500 euros in debt for the future. We have also taken decisions here, and I have objected to this, by which we have dismissed those who have brought money to these banks. It was obviously a dictatorship, as it was said here, by the European Commission, that these holders of subordinate bonds should be reclassified – we will see what the Constitutional Court will decide on this – but we had no problems there. You didn't have any problems or I won't count myself to raise your hand for such a measure. Now that we are expected to find this power together, to put together a legal framework, so that we can look at these files on the basis of which this bank hole has been created, we suddenly squeeze our tail between our legs. I don't think this is the right way, and we're gonna have to go this way. In these circles and in our species, it is also often heard that law enforcement authorities have an opportunity and the right to enter these institutions and that they are owed, most of the time we accuse them almost of doing nothing. But, colleagues and colleagues, I firmly believe that if many of the data that are covered in some sort of mystery today, under the legal framework, were to be transparent, many such deviant events would simply not happen because it would be the public because access to this data would be the best correction for doing so. The Scandinavian companies that we like to take as a model are known just because practically everything that happens to the public sector is publicly accessible to everyone on such matters. Those who receive wages or manage public money must be aware that they will act in a fair, moral, ethical manner and that the public has every right to know what he has done. However, we do not have the right to adopt a law, as the majority in the National Assembly has apparently estimated that, I don't know, a parliamentary committee dealing with such matters would have had the opportunity to look at these controversial loans that have made this bank hole. I don't think we're really doing what people chose us to do. We don't do what people expect in this area. I'm afraid this bill will be rejected by the coalition. I am even more saddened by the fact that these recommendations simply do not cause the government or anyone else to prepare such a law, because if it is prepared by the opposition, it is condemned in advance to refuse. As I have already said, we owe it to us to have such a legal framework that would ensure the transparency and publicity of these data in this area that we must urgently accept it. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support this amendment of the law. As I have already said, we will also put our efforts into this meeting, which has already been convened on 11 February 2014, in which we also support in our conclusions all these efforts to make greater transparency in this area and ultimately greater order and even greater fairness in spending public money.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Bogovich. The last position of the Group of Members. On behalf of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u128	Thank you for your word, Madam President. A respected minister with coworkers, respectable colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a proposal to supplement the Banking Act tabled by the SDS Group. In the DeSUS Group, we took the view that we would not support such a proposal. The proposal introduces such a supplement which, in our view, is not in accordance with the provision governing the obligation to protect confidential data and the proposal for a hearing is precisely to allow the availability of bank data for the purpose of the work of our house. In this house, in the National Assembly, we only confirm legislation and additional information needs, after investigative work in our institution we do not need, because in our country we have enough such institutions or bodies dealing with both investigation, infringements, information abuse, suspicion of criminal services in the field of banking, economy and the like. They also have powers, the National Assembly does not have those powers or powers, except where this is required, but information is required only from public entities and not from private entities in which banks may be included. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we are convinced that disclosure of the data requested by the proposer, a strong banking system, and the related confidence of the commissioners in banks. The result may also be a large outflow of deposits, which we know to be guaranteed by the State up to EUR 100,000. We are truly concerned about what we have complemented and even have to deal with. In fact, we have almost four hours planned for this proposal — significantly too much. As we know, there is also an amendment to the Law on Access to Public Information in the procedure. In its context, disclosure and transparency of data on poor claims at a higher level may be possible, which means that the solutions proposed in this novel are more appropriate, more appropriate and certainly more appropriate. Let me also remind you that the public commitment of the current government is to find those responsible for the situation in the Slovenian banking system. We're sure she'll make it. And as we have said many times in this Chamber, this time, we still believe in our parliamentary group that there is an urgent need to disclose responsibility for the situation, not just banking, so that we can solve matters and not waste valuable time for stories from the past. Time's running out. Let us try to catch him at least a little bit in the process of dealing with more appropriate and urgent matters, such as youth employment, raising the economy, caring for the elderly, given that we have a good part of the older population. In the DeSUS Group, we therefore expect effective, legally sustainable and rapid conclusions, as we find the basis for legislation in terms of access to disclosure of those responsible and involved in the granting of credits without adequate guarantees. As we have said, in the DeSUS Group, we believe that the proposed supplement has been meaningless, since the Banking Act and the new Law on Access to Information of a Public Inventory are satisfactory in solving this issue. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we will not support the proposal to supplement the Banking Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. Hršak. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and Members on the proposal for a law. In view of the many cancellations, I would first like to inform you how the next order would proceed. Mr Janez Ribič, Matthew Tonin, Franz Pukšič, Ivan Vogrin, Ludmila Novak and so on. Would you like to speak on behalf of the motioner, Mr. Shircelj? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u130	Yes, thank you very much. I think it is necessary to answer some of the questions or some of the dilemmas that my colleagues and colleagues have raised. First, with regard to bank secrecy and confidential information, and so on in Article 215 of the Act. In fact, Article 215 of the Act provides that in cases where the obligation to protect confidential data does not apply, this applies, of course, to the confidential data of banks – we are talking about the Banking Act. Here are a number of situations where the obligation to protect confidential data does not actually apply, i.e. where the party expressly agrees to communicate individual confidential data, which is of course logical; if the Bank of Slovenia or another supervisory authority is in need of supervision; in the case of the transmission of data to the parent companies concerning supervision on a consolidated basis and so on; in order to exchange information on client credit risk rating for the purpose of managing credit risk, where the bank provides data to the court, the State Prosecutor's Office, the police, in case there are grounds for doubt that a criminal offence has been committed and in other cases specified by law. What does the Slovenian Democratic Party propose? The Slovenian Democratic Party proposes that this information is also justified by the National Assembly. The National Assembly, that is to say, Members and Members of the National Assembly or the working body of the National Assembly or the Commission of Inquiry. The Commission of Inquiry has just been set up to explore the perplexity, crime and other incompetences of the banking system. We, Members and Members from coalition parties or at least most of the coalition parties, one coalition party has not stated its position, we simply say no and we do not need it. But we don't need this data, and we're going to approve 5 billion, 3 billion for the bank hole. But simply, on what grounds? On the basis of the exchange rate or on the basis that the government will, of course, tell us what this hole is. And I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen, that's a little strange. Don't we want something, we don't want some data that makes it easier to make decisions? This is an incomprehensible matter, but it's a matter of protecting someone. In order to protect those who, at the final stage, actually gave loans and not loans based on the profession, but on clienteleistic links, on the basis of friendly links, on the basis that there were insufficient guarantees, on the basis that the applications for credit were incomplete and so on and so on. But we're going to approve, and we're going to get to know that we're going to put 3 billion in banks or even more tax money. Excuse me, this is a simple, illogical, weird, confused matter for me, if you want, by coalition parties, who have the view that the National Assembly doesn't need it. If we are talking about the fact that in this case, as Mr Frangež said, for example, and I quote: "The banking sector is not to be played because money is a shy deer." And so on and so forth. Let's ask ourselves if the banking sector is playing with us. Whether the banking sector comes to Parliament and has been going to the National Assembly for 20 years in all governments, with the request for additional capitalisation and Members and Members of Parliament, we peacefully approve additional recapitalisations for state banks because the state is the owner here. Who's playing with who now? Who is the mouse and who is the cat when we talk about the National Assembly on the one hand and the bankers on the other? Who's playing with who? I think that in the last 20 years, either the banking sector or bankers have been playing with members of the National Assembly and probably also with the Government, because the government always comes, whatever it is, with a recapitalisation proposal. In time, if you want the Bajuk government to expand to the east. For enlargement to the former countries came the New Ljubljana Bank – and how much did we expand? Banks have some properties there that they don't even know they're there, but they went to tens of millions. That, ladies and gentlemen, makes no sense to me. And, of course, it is also illogical that, as was said by the representative of Positive Slovenia, we go to feudalism. That we go to feudalism if we already know that democracy with a much longer history has such institutions and that parliaments in those countries with longer democracy adopt bank laws, they probably have the right to know about the mistakes of that banking system – Ireland has already been mentioned, Iceland has already been mentioned. They have similar systems in other countries. Democracy does not mean that we have no responsibility in the country. Doesn't mean we're going to commit a crime. It's not democracy! If, of course, you tie this to some feudal systems and so on. Democracy requires a much greater responsibility and therefore this link is totally unnecessary and does not have any basis, neither logical nor any other, except that some proposal that is actually simply rejected because it is proposed by the wrong party. Or because you don't want to even think about having some credit reviewed to make some credit public, so that some credits for some major investment projects become public - even though we know that the newspapers already say what kind of credit they are. And, of course, these credits should not be looked at, nor should the National Assembly have any interference or commission of inquiry here. For this reason, of course – there is a logic: to protect some people who have thus given credit or taken credit. Here it is. Of course, I think that you should actually look here through personal interests; you should look beyond the interests that bind you, burden you, you should look at taxpayers who pay 3 billion for the rehabilitation of the banking system – and this moment is not the final number. I don't think it's the final number yet! And, of course, we don't care! Those who think that a credit folder is on two sides are probably wrong. I believe that the credit map for certain companies represents dozens of files, not one page of the A4 format. Because it represents this, of course it is also necessary to have experts, and even here I agree with some that it is necessary to have experts, and I also agree that you might want to have some special law on this. However, if we look at the situation in Slovenia in this area, we can actually find something completely different. On the other hand, in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which, of course, also rejects this law or this amendment to the law, on the other hand, I am pleased that the Minister will monitor this debate and that banking secrecy for him is an important element at the moment, but we have a situation in which the Bank of Slovenia will only organise a coordination commission, where, among other things, the various authorities, including the KPC, including the prosecution, the police and so on, and will only organise this coordination commission that will talk, is likely to see these credit maps. This actually surprises me, because we are actually still very, very, very at the beginning; and because I think that the verbal interest is, verbally we will say that we are responsible, we are for the transparency of the banking system, we are for all of this and, on the other hand, we will not do in the National Assembly what is absolutely necessary in order to actually make these inequities – and if it is a crime as mentioned by the Minister – actually happen. And then, on the other hand, if we are talking about banking secrecy ensuring the stability of the banking system – it was also in the position of Positive Slovenia. Ladies and gentlemen! Bank secrecy ensures the stability of the banking system with the support of several billion injections by taxpayers. If there were no such injections, we would not have any banking system, if there were no 3 billion recapitalisations, would be the 3 largest banks in Slovenia in bankruptcy. Not in liquidation, in bankruptcy, ladies and gentlemen, and of course they would only be there in front of the banks of the species because there would not be enough deposits for everyone, because some deposits have been spent on loans that will never be returned. What long-term stability do taxpayers want, with a few billion in the banking system each few years? This is not the stability of the banking system. It's not! This is the theft of taxpayers! We have been listening to this for 20 years, and today we do not want the National Assembly to, because we, Members and Members of Parliament, consider ourselves unworthy to actually review and obtain this data and, on the other hand, to adopt some laws. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not defending this information, and I am also prepared to deal with it within the framework of banking secrecy, if that is required and if that is necessary. I cannot agree with such questions or such concerns as have now been said. I think we are responsible enough to actually be the legislative body that we are adopting laws that also relate to banking responsibility and banking. We are the ones responsible for keeping the banks from falling apart, and we are also the ones who do everything we can to make sure that this doesn't happen. Key data are public in many countries. I also believe that, given that the Bank's Claims Management Company has publicly stated - I say what was public - that they have made two opinions so that certain data cannot be made public and so on. On the basis of opinions, however, it might be possible to obtain other opinions, but in any event, it is the National Assembly which gives a compulsory interpretation of the articles of law. We just didn't get it, even on what's public or not. I certainly cannot agree with the thesis of DeSUS, which, among other things, says this in its position, and, of course, rejects the fact that certain banking secrets are exposed, that there is a significant time for this topic. Ladies and gentlemen, ask the taxpayers what 3 billion is and how much time it takes to spend or spend. Ladies and gentlemen, here we are actually talking about their money, not our money. For this reason, I appeal and call for further reflection by the coalition on the fact that in the first reading, in the first debate, this law supports it, to improve the process further and to achieve what we all say – that we want the responsibility, that we want the data to be disclosed if it is a crime, if it is a crime, and that we simply move from words to acts! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. Shircel. Mr Pukšič has the floor instead of Mr Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary! Some have said today that this is being prepared in the next law, in the Law on Access to Public Information. Today I will tell you that this law will be nothing, even though it is a broad readiness for it, because it is moving away, it should later come into force and so on. In short, as long as this government coalition is in power, it will be nothing. The proposal prepared by the colleagues gives the opportunity to do so immediately, i.e. by means of a rapid procedure. In fact, it is part of this text copied from what is aligned with the coalition for the Public Information Access Act, so that the content is not questionable at all. But there is one problem; in the opposition we have now come to you with grief because we wanted to do something to really happen. And you don't want it. On the investigative committee, Goran Klemenčič said, "Listen, those large loans, millions of dollars, because they weren't given to the boards, there at some inn, there was some inn, there was a drink they agreed on, and then, of course, they carried out formalities elsewhere." Who's been with these kind of loans before? Who's already involved in some fictitious contracts? Who's already got on the basis of this big money and so on? What are you afraid of? In the Slovenian People's Party, we are not afraid of anything if any skeleton that is a member of our Slovenian People's Party falls out when these credit maps are discovered. Who's got it? You in Positive Slovenia, you're afraid of that! Why is that? Because your president told the press publicly that he was lobbying for money, credit and so on. Yeah, well, if the bodies, like Hršak said, worked, some of these people would have been where they should have been long ago. What you have done, however, is not to give any information to the commission of inquiry – because it is the influence of politics, because it is nothing else, not to waste sand in your eyes! The Commission of Inquiry is legally the same as the work of an investigative judge. So what do they have to decide if they're gonna give it to us or not?Oh, my God! Listen, we have the right to press this button for the state guarantee, for 100, for 200 million, for a billion, 3, 5, and so on! That's what we got! Look who it was and where it was going, but no! Then we are guilty: these bastards of the Messengers are guilty; these politicians perished! And so on. Now let's say who did it! We want to see this, and we have the right to tell people! People pay for this money, and we've been elected, and we don't have that option. In the investigative committee, we have come to the conclusion that we will take counsellors who are familiar with the legal part, the financial part and so on. We can't! Why not? Yeah, what are they gonna watch? What? Journal articles from the Youth or from your work or this matter? There's nothing they can do! The director of the New Bank of Credit Maribor, Mr Hauc, who was here, said: "Listen, you get the documents, then you can ask exact and clear questions and you will have the bull on the table very quickly." But nothing, it's not working. Some who spoke about how this precision of banking secrecy should be safeguarded — kindly, please, for whom?Oh, my God! For those of you who have hands in marmalade! Comrade Franz, here in public and now, at the moment. Last week was a press conference of the Slovenian People's Party, where I talked about it myself, and also at the investigator about it, I said that it would be really best to bring or do it through the same system, according to the Icelandic case, as they solved it. My friend Frangez agrees. He said it would be for the best. Please, you're in the government coalition! If you don't do it, then tell the good guys you're not going to do it again, so you don't have to hide your back. Tell them and ask for it! With a special special law, of course, if the government coalition wants – not if it wants you to need 60 Members, a two-thirds majority, you have our votes, no problem! Even if this part of the Constitution has to be modified temporarily, it is also possible. All for the sake of taking those who have harmed, who have robbed this country, we will step on our fingers. My friend Khršak, because I believe that the second time you read what you read here today, someone else must have written it to you to make your tears run through your face. I'd like to get some information, some information, some information from the investigative committee, and it says here today, we don't need it because we have organs. If our organs were working, we would have done something long ago, and we talked about it yesterday, and nothing happened. Why? Because big fish are questionable, that's the problem, not small people. We'll back him up.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. Puksich. Mr. Chekovin, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u134	Thank you, lovely Madam Vice President. I would like to point Mr Pukšič on a procedural basis only to read the agenda of this regular session until the end, i.e. I would then like to see that on Tuesday on the agenda the amendment of the Law on Public Information is all that he now stated and would put his energy on the table, and I would not need to strain myself from the veins to turn against us and to screw it up for Tuesday.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Mr Chehovin, but I am directing the debate here, I know what you were going to say, but I think Mr Pukšič has kept to the limits of this point. Procedurally, please, Mr. Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u136	That's it. I know, and we have pointed out that the law we are talking about – information of a public nature – should be adopted quickly. You didn't understand that, but you understood that the system law on extra taxation was passed quickly. That's why this was my debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u137	The word has magic. Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u138	Dear colleagues and colleagues! In Slovenia, the banking system is restored for the second time. For the first time in the early 1990s, when Slovenia gained its independence, the moment came when we were doing it again. The hole made by the Slovenian banking system is deep, 20 times larger than the one made by the real estate tax or if I say otherwise: as much as we will pay for the real estate tax in 20 years with the bills, the bank hole will only take in one year. Maybe when we talk about these things, we're all too often aware that these are huge numbers. These numbers are so large that many people seem unimaginable, they're imaginary, they're sometimes referred to as pears and apples, but actually that means, all this money we're going to put in a bank hole means less money for education, for health care, even for roads. With all the money we're going to put into rehabilitating the banking system, we could practically repair all these troubled bridges, which have been a lot of talk lately. The reasons for this bank hole are external and are internal, among other things we can be sure that after 2011, and in particular during the economic period, money was very cheap on the world market. The very poor management of banks, in particular the poor management of state banks, must also be taken into account within the internal framework. When we listen to bankers who were running Slovenian banks at the time, they say more or less about the crisis. Sometimes the crisis seems to be some natural disaster that caused this bank hole. But if you compare the business of private banks and state banks, you will find that there is an important difference. Wasn't the crisis for all the same – and if it was the same for all, then how could private banks operate relatively stable and well during the crisis, while state banks generate huge negatives. Whether managers were too careful, they misjudged all risks, or they were subjected to certain political pressures. It seems very important to me that when we talk about the rehabilitation of the banking system and when we talk about the reasons for the bank hole, we are primarily looking for the reasons for how and how the bank hole will occur. Because if we don't understand these reasons and reasons, then it's only a matter of time before we can fix Slovenian banks for the third time. And in looking for the reasons and reasons why "this natural disaster" has happened to us, banking secrecy is the biggest obstacle. Many hearings at the parliamentary investigative commission have always stopped at bank secrecy. The interrogators said all sorts of things, revealed a lot of indiscretions, but as soon as it was necessary to operate with specific names and surnames, when the grey eminence of Slovenian banking should have been given a name and surname, and at that point everything stopped. As a politician and most likely also as a citizen, I find it difficult to understand why a name should not be disclosed if we know the problem, if we know how this problem occurred, if we even know how deep this bank hole is and how deep the disaster these individuals have caused — why is it not finally possible to disclose these names? In order to prevent future such cases, I think it is extremely important that the grey eminence of Slovenian banking, who are responsible for this situation, finally be named. Because as soon as we know and know what these names are, then this network that's "on vampires" is going to get and determine who gets unbased credits, then we can break this network. If we do not know these names, this network may continue to function smoothly. That is why I am sure and the Christian Democrats are saying that banking secrecy must be eliminated in some way at least in the part where it comes to taxpayer money. Why? Because if money goes from all our pockets to undo certain mistakes of some, it is right and fair to find out who those individuals who caused these mistakes and these bank holes are. Any step, any movement in this direction, we will support the Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek's turn. After him, mag. Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The amendment of the Banking Act, in the part that would allow the National Assembly to have a view of the competent working bodies of the National Assembly — at least these authorities, as he said — of the so-called banking secrecy associated with the greatest evil in the country. By robbing this country! It's absolutely necessary. But, ladies and gentlemen, such as the government's opinion, it's a disgrace! This government does not protect citizens. This government protects the tycoons, the robbers and others who put the country on its knees. Here the Government has put itself in an opinion in the role of the Constitutional Court. It condemns laws and powers that are not within its jurisdiction. This government is unaware that the National Assembly is significantly higher than the Government. For the Assembly of State appoints a mandate-holder and a government. They're usurping power to protect crime in this country! They say that the Commission of Inquiry does not have any authority to determine the actual situation, although explicitly, this is also stated in Article 2 that the Commission of Inquiry is set up to determine the actual situation. Mr. Secretary, please don't make any calls. Mr Minister, tell us how the Commission of Inquiry can determine the actual situation of those who robbed this country if you protect those who robbed and hid them from the public and from the National Assembly. Answer that question! The government is not responsible for assessing laws! The Commission of Inquiry shall have the same powers under the Criminal Procedure Act. That's what the law says. Everything else is the unconstitutional conduct of state authorities, governments, banks and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not surprised at such a written position by the Government that the state is sinking and sinking to protect those who have broken up to make matters obsolete. I find that it can be no different from that at least some who thus protect criminals have the financial benefit of protecting them. Here's the connection and this connection needs to be cut and found. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to draw attention to something else: how sophisticated these circles are. About our marriage, which we tabled 17. 12. 2013, the media didn't write a word. They didn't notice him. They kept their mouths shut. This means that the financial oligarchy has in the hands of certain editors and capital, which is in the possession of the media. However, that state television is managed by the current authorities at 100%, there is no doubt about it. Significantly earlier, this law was introduced as Virant's law on access to information of a public nature. This view of the Government shows that it has been delayed in the Government that Virant's law is only sand in the eyes to prevent the adoption of this law and that, as has been found, there will be nothing under this Virant law. For in this opinion, you also make it clear to the government that this law, which allows disclosure only to the level of the National Assembly and its bodies, would be a disproportionate intervention in the field of banking secrecy. Then what Virant promises is more disproportionate? Then what are you kidding? Then it's more disproportionate there, even though I support that law. [[…]] Ladies and gentlemen, the country is so in debt, so plundered that you have no right in the Government to protect those who have done so. You don't and you can't have it! For, gentlemen of the government and of the coalition, of course, who today, in some way, are in a shameful way agreeing against what they have promised men. On the contrary, it will happen sooner or later that people with poverty will not be able to train their children, to reduce their children’s rights, to come before these banks, and to demolish them literally. Because the damage will be lower if they do 50 million damage with a building and an institution that protects 10 billion crime. And this 10 billion crime is supported by the government in this country. While we have heard that the anti-corruption commission has written down in its position that it has identified a catastrophic situation and that it is proposing to the public problematic risks and credits. In some cases you magnify the KPK – here you deny it all options, you deny it all legitimacy. No wonder she stepped down! It's been known that her resignation was due to the powerlessness of bank robbers. We heard it here, in Iceland, in Spain. Wherever they faced such a catastrophic situation, those causes were presented to the public. They're sitting in jail in Iceland, ladies and gentlemen! I have not yet heard the Minister give one answer to Parliament. This kind of protection is illegal, it's illegal, it's unconstitutional. This will be proved by the people as soon as possible. I guarantee you that patience will pass them by. But I do not call them to this; but his predestined destruction, the people, will raise his voice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u141	Thank you, too. Does the Minister want to answer any questions, or can we move on? Master Ivan Vogrin has the word and Mr Borut Ambrožič is ready. Here you go, Mr. Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u142	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I wonder, really, if it makes any sense for a person to say anything else. You know, from 2000 to 2004, she was in LDS. At that time, my mayor's colleague, Milan Gumzar of Benedict, was the mayor and the MP, once told me what the situation was in the National Assembly, and I didn't believe it. He said, "I tried to express my position and to draw attention to the wrong decisions – no one listened to me. I stopped talking after six months." And you know where the LDS came from! That's about the fate of this country. Ivan Simič, former director of Dursa, said, "I feel like I'm trapped in a coffin, I scream, but no one can hear me." Many of us feel that way, our citizens. You know what we're doing? After the ZUJF, we reduced pensions, wages for those with salaries of 600, 700, 800 euros, pensions of 400, 500 euros. On the other hand, it's really a little incomprehensible who we're hiding. You know, Jože Pučnik said with enthusiasm in 1990, many times they said, "Yugoslavia is gone!" "Yugoslavia is gone," he repeated. It was actually a quote that they used to spin a lot of times. Slovenia is no longer, ladies and gentlemen, Slovenia is no longer. When you do not have economic autonomy, when you go abroad and ask for credits – Mr Minister, I hope you are again in a successful debt. And I'll tell you my experience. Indeed, it is good that a Member is one who came directly from a bankrupt company. In 2010, I went to the Maribor Credit Bank for a loan. When I came back to the firm, my financials asked me, "Director, did you get the credit?" "I got it," I said - she congratulated me! You know what I should do? Hit me on the head. Minister, listen carefully: two years later, we went bankrupt! When Slovenia will be totally – because it already is. We're going to get some more credit - it's over with us, ladies and gentlemen! You know, it's real. We should be working on other things, not to be in debt. We should as a state restructure, look at what we've been doing, but Minister, try to listen to me a little bit. I signed a personal menu and personally vouched for my assets for the loan I rented for the company. What do you guarantee as minister and what do ministers and government guarantee? With nothing! And maybe someday someone will be called to account. And it's not right for us to do what we do. Of course, it is no wonder that we are doing this because on 24 May we adopted a decree declaring the constitutional law, we adopted a fiscal rule. We're supposed to take November 24th. 11th, an appropriate law, we have not yet done so today on 31 January. This means that we are, in fact, a totally wrong country where everyone with some position of power can do what he almost wants. And the more he did the damage, the more he was protected. Simple people with salaries who want to work are hired, but they're out of options. That's why, of course, I don't see the problem with opening things up. Is it true that what someone told me to politicians in Slovenia, no matter what options they come from when they are in power, literally beast? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u143	Thank you, too. Mr Borut Ambrožič could have the word, but he is not in the Chamber, so Mr Ivan Grill has the word, and Mrs Alenka Jeraj is preparing. Here you go, Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u144	Thank you very much. It is a pity that he has just left the Chamber, because I wanted to suggest to him that it is now an opportunity, with the support of at least this first reading of this law, to suggest to the coalition that it, too, would have some interest in supporting this law, which is well-intentioned and would in fact show that in politics we are also prepared to do something with a change of law which is extremely important. Many say that in some laws the problem is that both sanctioning and detection of those most responsible, that we are in Slovenia where we are, starts to solve or that this tick begins to unfold. It's a coalition, too. Look, you have, despite the fact that some of you have, in your debates that I do not believe that you are actually thinking that way, you have been rejected, detained or unwilling to support this law. The arguments are also impeccable and I think it is hard for someone to believe that if this law were to be adopted in such a form, even if it were supplemented by an amendment, it would undermine the trust of people in banks. If people asked who was responsible for what was happening in the banks, these bank holes, these scams, criminal acts, everyone would almost say in one voice: politics. But I do not feel responsible for this, nor do I feel responsible for past decisions, where I have had the opportunity to co-decision, but even less now, when we can actually, through the amendment of this law, give tools to many institutions to start solving these problems. Those who say that institutions are now the ones who should solve these problems are responsible and have this option – I don't think that's the case. Recently, we were able to listen to and see statements made by the prosecutor, who said that they simply could not get the data. That officials and everyone refer to bank secrecy and simply do not come to data. Unless they came and took all the papers away, financial experts and bank experts would look into it and then try to get the data they want. See, "the trust of the people in the banks would be clouded by this"; I agree that this is extremely important that we have and have confidence in banks, but especially those who save. No savior will be exposed by such law. And even if people, the savers, were to reveal information about those who in the state banks had started loompariums that had been unjustifiably given more than 10 million or even 100 million credits, I am sure that 99% of people would be sure that this would once begin to be disclosed. Today is an opportunity, or Tuesday, when the vote is to begin with this law. And if we're talking about people's trust in banks: a lot of people have lost confidence in banks, but not because of such a law, but because of what you did in the coalition – that you've simply allowed 100,000 people and more to go free in good faith, in the belief that it was a safe purchase for their future, for their age, when they bought shares in the New Credit Bank of Maribor, you automatically took them all with ease. Even more unfairly, even more criminally, we can say that you did this to investors who bought subordinated securities. And now you expect that by rejecting this law, trust in banks will be maintained or even strengthened? Yes, please! Who's going to believe that? If it were true will, I don't know where the reasons prevent you. Give support to this law because it's well-intentioned. Also, what you have in mind is that the National Assembly, our committees, investigative commissions are not the ones who are entitled to such data so that these data can be misused to be manipulated — that is simply not true! Each of us Members is certainly, even as regards the protection of such data, responsible for this, also criminally responsible. I believe that anyone who would like to face such information would do the same. Last but not least, how much data or information do we get, which are state secrets, which, we can say, are indeed some secret things that no one can possibly get, but Members have an opportunity to get, of course, against the promise and protection of these secrets. But for the normal work of the National Assembly, our bodies, and our commissions, it is often just the data from banking types that is necessary to do so. There have been many attempts to deal with certain matters in a qualitative way, to make certain decisions, not least to propose some changes to the legislation, if in fact it were to determine where the reasons for a number of irregularities are, but the work was disabled by the fact that the banks simply did not give their data, but there were indeed no secrets to which they could refer, but only to the protection of certain individuals, thieves and those who, in banking types, gave such people credits in essence to beautiful eyes. I once interviewed a bank employee who honestly told me that if people — and of course us politicians — knew how credits are given to people who are given credits so that they could probably be — I will not mention what. On the streets. People would just probably go crazy. Let's all do something together to make this agony go away for once. I hope, look, I hope that on Tuesday it will prevail and that you will support this bill and then, in the second reading, if there are really any other things that need to be worked out, correct it in order to make this right together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u145	Thank you. Mrs Alena Jeraj could get the word, but she's not in the hall right now. Mr. Jože Tanko could be next, and he's not in the hall right now. That is what Mr Marko Pavlišič has to say. Get the government ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u146	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Civil Gazette, we are committed to maximum transparency and we have also tabled or prepared a Law on Access to Public Information, which will be dealt with in a short time in the Second Reading State Council. This law opens up data on bad loans that have been transferred to a bad bank, and these are also loans that are the main cause of this bank hole that we have been faced with, while also opening up access to a wide range of data from state banks, such as sponsorship contracts, advisory contracts and the rest, which are linked to it. With the amendment of the Banking Act, we have recently, a few months ago, also made it possible to access the police, the courts and the prosecution. In short, the relevant institutions responsible for investigating and prosecuting crimes related to this and, for example, leading to these problems in the banking sector. However, we must be aware that it is essential that data on the situation in the savings accounts, that data on the use on credit cards, that data on who an undertaking is dealing with and how much it is dealing with these companies, that it is right that these data remain a bank secret. I don't think there's any doubt here. The National Assembly is a legislative body and, in some cases, a supervisory body. We share power with some purpose, and this is to control and limit these individual branches of government so that one does not grow up and assume the role of all, but does not intend to divide power by one branch doing the work of the other branch. This is not the purpose of this and it is necessary to be aware of this in such proposals of laws. I certainly suggest that we strive to ensure that everyone does his job as best as possible, not that we want to do the work that someone else should do. The situation in the accounts, where I bought something, where I skied not the last time, and how much more credit I have to pay off, let's just keep it inside the bank walls. But if anyone's interested, let him answer, and I'll be happy to tell him. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u147	Thank you. The government may have a word after the review. Here you go, Mr. Mitya Mavko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u148	Thank you so much for saying that. Just a brief explanation. Today, most of the talks were on the proponents' proponents of the law on detection and prosecution of criminal offences in banks, but part of the debate also referred to disclosures in banks and greater transparency in banks, particularly those receiving state aid or measures under the Banks Stability Act. However, we would like to point out at this point that, as Mr Pavlisič has already said in the opinion of the Government, we believe that the last amendment of the Banking Act, which was adopted at the end of last year, is already supplementing Article 215 of this Act with a special provision to allow institutions and law enforcement bodies involved in the detection and prosecution of criminal offences to access the information of the bank either to the court or to the State Prosecutor or to the police if there is only a suspicion of criminal service that a criminal offence has been committed, except of course in cases where the provision of confidential information by law explicitly lays down the order of the investigating judge. We believe that the relevant authorities will be able to obtain all the necessary information on their own in order to detect irregularities in the Slovenian banking system in this way. In addition, the last amendment to the Banking Act also gave rise to an extension of the limitation of the age of criminal and compensation liability, a fourfold increase in the possibility of people avoiding their responsibilities through this institute. With regard to the disclosures, as mentioned in the debate today, I would also like to point out, on behalf of the Government, the amendments tabled on the proposal of the Law on Access to Public Information, which is currently in Parliament's hearing, allowing claims transferred from banks to a bad bank to the Bank's Claims Management Company to be subject to a significantly higher degree of transparency; not only will exposures to the Commissioners be published, gross exposures to the Commissioners who have been transferred to the Bank's Claims Management Company, but individual data from individual transactions contracts be disclosed, so will the way in which the transaction is concluded, who has approved the individual transactions, what insurances were used for the establishment of a particular transaction. In this way, we believe that maximum transparency in relation to the operation of a bad bank in relation to transfers made to a bad bank will be ensured in a legally regulated manner, and thus a better public view of its functioning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u149	Thank you, too. The text is also given by the proposer, Mag. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would effectively appeal once again, call on colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament to change their position on this law. After all, this marriage does no harm to anyone. This is a disclosure of the data, which is the true disclosure of the data that banks must disclose to the National Assembly, and this data, of course, may also be bank secrecy. This is not the case, in fact, that banking secrecy would in all cases fall away. What has already been mentioned and what I have mentioned, and what the Secretary of State has also mentioned, is that the amendment of the Banking Act has been and that certain data can now be obtained by law enforcement authorities and so on. This also actually indicates that the bank sends certain data to a particular institution, but it can still be bank secrecy. This does not mean that, in all cases, this data will be, or in any case, in the paper, and this is why discussions are about how someone wants credit card bills, deposits, payments and so on – ladies and gentlemen, this is for me to banalise this topic. It's banalizing that subject! Today we are talking about a 3-billion-dollar bank hole, a 3-billion-dollar recapitalisation and a 5-billion-dollar bank hole, we are not talking today about small deposits and small payments with such or different cards. For this reason, I agree with Mr Pavlišič's thesis that every authority must do its job; and the National Assembly must do so, as well as the Members must do so, and we must also monitor how the laws are implemented. If crime does not occur, if criminal proceedings occur, then of course we must react and demand where and when it has occurred. That is why we have investigative commissions and the National Assembly has an investigative committee and this investigative commission has certain powers and needs certain data to do so. The Commission of Inquiry in the field of banking cannot operate without data. Whoever thinks they can does it in advance against exploring anything in this banking business. If you have such an attitude in the coalition, then it is necessary to say it clearly and loudly or to move from words to actions and in fact when you are to be revealed — conversational and, of course, everyone would reveal it and so on — then this action should be done. On the other hand, I do not understand the coalition and I do not understand Members of the coalition that they do not actually believe themselves to work in accordance with these data if you want, with bank secrecy, in accordance with other laws and so on. They don't believe in themselves that it's possible. This goes essentially to the Institute of Parliament, to the Institute of the National Assembly, on one hand, because we do not know how many institutions that can obtain this information; no, the National Assembly and the Commission of Inquiry cannot get this! It's mistrust, you don't trust yourself if you have that attitude. This is very surprising to me and, after all, this law does not exclude the Public Information Access Act. That's not actually happening either. For this reason, I would actually appeal for the support of the law and for the law to be examined further. If, of course, you have any suggestions – please give them, submit amendments if this dictatorship needs to be improved. This dictatorship applies to both the National Assembly and the other institutions. For you know, such conduct, even such conduct, is known on the money of the taxpayers. This law, if not adopted, has a financial effect not on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, but on taxpayers. Indeed, it allows such acts as have occurred in the past to be committed by criminal acts, acts to be pursued, to continue in the future. In the future, banks will need to be recapitalised If banks need to be recapitalised, I say that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will not have enough money to recapitalise banks by raising taxes. Not because I couldn't, but because the tax rise won't have any financial impact. Even now, the tax rise has no financial impact, the country received 5% less tax in 2013 than it did in 2012, while constantly raising it to raise it constantly, including VAT. Which, of course, means that high taxes don't bring any more revenue. That's why it's gonna happen. What? It will happen that the government will actually have to make a commitment. In order for the Government to be in charge, it will have to have a certain reputation in international markets. It will have to have a competitive advantage in international markets, in particular so that the interest it owes is low enough and not low enough today. As we know, according to my information, the government has not committed itself to the American market, despite the Minister's travel in America for 10 days. Why isn't she in charge? Doesn't anyone believe you? What interest could be paid on the American market? In fact, it's a little strange that you go to a so-called road show and then don't get in debt. There may, of course, be different reasons. The reason for the Ukrainian crisis may be that Turkey has secured its currency and increased interest rates from 7% to 12%, the European Central Bank may have stopped buying or reducing the volume of US bonds by 10 billion or 11% to 12%. That could be the reason. They're just fairy tales. They're all international things that can be the reason. However, there can be a reason for the credibility of the state; the inability of economic and financial policy to believe that international investors here, too, no longer believe in this policy. As a result, interest on international investors to purchase Slovenian bonds is, for example, more than 5%. And in these cases, of course, it is difficult to borrow more than 5%. But where does that go? Since we have not disclosed bank secrecy because we have not disclosed those who have given bad loans, as a result this agony continues, we will not solve the banking crisis simply by bringing some claims to the DUTB, but not all the bad claims on the DUTB, the banks still have a bad claim in their portfolio. It is not that, in fact, it is necessary to make a completely different credible environment to which international investors will also believe. If we do not, if we continue with this banking agony, it will occur that we will not be able to resolve further bank recapitalisation by taxes, we will probably be indebted at an ever-increasing interest rate – theoretically and practically all countries are in debt, including Egypt is in debt at the 17th, 18th percent interest rate – but does this government do this for future generations? Does he want to destroy future generations? Does he want to make future generations study in Slovenia or not and then go abroad? It's a policy of exhaustion. This is a policy by which international investors will also exhaust the country. Because they will always have and reach 2-3% higher interest rates than they would have achieved according to my information in the ESM system in Europe. If Europe gave 2%, international investors would give 5%. These are 3 percentage points or 4. Two to three percentage points will always get more from international investors. That is why we do not want to invest in Europe. Is that it? Does this increase our competitiveness? We will still have to make a pension reform, a reform of the public sector, a reform of all of this. If this is a policy to keep this information from being disclosed, we will continue with the agony – ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for such a policy. Thank you so much for such an economic, economic and financial policy! That's not what we're doing here! We do not agree to such a policy in the Slovenian Democratic Party! Cuts will be needed anyway. Of course it's worrying. And it is also worrying that this government simply writes the opinion that things are already one way or another, that the existing rightful National Assembly does not have the right to these and these data and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, things have changed, they've changed in the past and they'll change. People will not be forever and always satisfied with the fact that we will say so, as it already says in the laws. Things change, life changes. Sometimes it will also be necessary to adopt a law that is slightly different, which, if you want, is a little more bold because the situation has changed because we are living in a situation where poverty is increasing, we live in situations where they have no legal security, neither businesses nor individuals, and because we do not want to expose those who have actually committed criminal acts, collected money, transferred it to foreign accounts, accounts in foreign countries, and there is no money and will never be. And let's not dream of that money coming back! He can only come in as dirty money, as washed money, with which some businesses may also be bought and so on, but then it will be pure money. This is not what we are going to do in the Slovenian Democratic Party, which is why we want to be responsible for these actions, so we want banks to start operating transparently, and this is nothing unusual. Things have changed in other countries, too. Probably in the '90s. In 2004, it was not possible to count on bankers anywhere in any country to release bank secrecy. Today this is being done; also in Europe, even in some other countries. Things are moving forward evolutionaryly because life is moving forward evolutionaryly and we cannot rely constantly on certain regulations that were adopted 20 years ago in a completely different situation than we are today. For this reason, I propose that the Government reconsider the opinion it has written here, because this opinion means that it is against the disclosure of bank irregularities. That's why she's responsible, long-term responsible. I suggest, ladies and gentlemen, that you reconsider by Tuesday, and that we somehow unite here. We're all pro-declarative; let's move from words to actions!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u151	Thank you, too. You've got your word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask if, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I find that there are no applications, so I am concluding the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Tuesday, 4 in accordance with the meeting's timetable. 2. 2014 in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We are moving on to the 20-point agenda, which is to discuss the mid-term report of the Commission of Inquiry on the findings and assessment of the activities of extremist groups. The report was submitted to the National Assembly by the Commission of Inquiry. For further explanation, I give the floor to the President of the Commission of Inquiry, Maja Dimitrovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u152	Thank you for your word. Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you the Interlocutory report of the Commission of Inquiry on the determination and assessment of the operation of extremist groups in the Republic of Slovenia. The interim report summarises the work of the Commission of Inquiry, which carried out the first half of a specific parliamentary inquiry within ten months at seven meetings. The first part was aimed at obtaining quality findings and assessments of the actual situation that could be the basis for amending legislation, preventing the operation and control of extremist groups, namely legislation governing the establishment of parties, associations and other voluntary associations, public gatherings and public assemblies, the powers of security and intelligence services or the amendment of other legislation and other decisions in accordance with the constitutional competences of the National Assembly. The relevant parliamentary inquiry was ordered by the National Assembly at the end of January last year and, at the same time, in early February it also established an investigative commission which immediately undertook a large-scale work. The 89-page interim report represents the first phase of the parliamentary investigation, namely the preparatory investigation process and the implementation of the evidence. On the basis of the decision taken to carry out the preparatory investigations and its two additions, we have received documentation which was the basis for the preparation of the interim report as well as the basis for carrying out the evidentiary procedure carried out within the framework of the evidentiary decision adopted and its completion. Within this preparatory investigation phase, we requested and received material from 9 bodies summarizing the state of extremism in the Republic of Slovenia. We also took note of the research task on extremist organisations, their functioning and the regulatory arrangements in 15 countries. In so doing, let me mention that all publicly available materials from the requested authorities have been attached to the interim report. Within the evidence procedure, the Commission of Inquiry listened to statements made by 6 expert witnesses interviewed. The purpose of the hearings was to obtain explanations of the facts, circumstances and assessments of the actual situation of the appearance and functioning of extremist groups in the Republic of Slovenia. Following 6 meetings, the Commission of Inquiry decided to consider the draft interim report at its 5th regular session. In preparation of the draft, Dr. Peter Umek from the Faculty of Security Sciences of the University of Maribor helped us professionally. His contribution to the prepared material of the essential findings is enormous, so I would like to thank him for the work he has done here. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 23 of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Inquiry, the interim report also sets out a separate opinion from three members which challenged both the eligibility of the parliamentary investigation, the course of the investigation and the conduct of the evidence, in particular the hearing of witnesses, certain expert witnesses, as well as the content of the report or the essential findings. In short, the three members of the Commission of Inquiry disagree with the parliamentary investigation and the work of the Commission or the course of the investigation and therefore disagree with the interim report. Finally, they reinforced their disagreement by voting against the interim report. I will continue to focus on a brief presentation of the main part of the interim report, which will also be the subject of the decision-making session of the National Assembly. The main findings found on pages 41 to 54 present to us in a concentrated way the legal regulation of extremism in Slovenian legislation and the emerging forms of extremism and extremist groups. Within the set of good 10 pages is followed by the definition of extremism, in the last part, from page 48 onward, we find the main findings from the selected material and opinions of the expert witnesses, as well as the answer to the basic question, by order of the parliamentary inquiry, how to prevent and sanction extremist activity in Slovenia with proposals to amend the current legislation. At the beginning of the main findings, we find that the comprehensive problems of extremism in the Republic of Slovenia have been avoided by all the authorities for almost two decades, leaving open the question of the existence of extreme groups in our country and thus allowing for a wide range of action and inviolability of these groups, all on behalf of the right to unification and freedom of speech. Based on the material collected so far and the testimony of expert witnesses, it is possible to establish that all national security authorities and expert witnesses determine the existence of extreme groups in Slovenia, both left and religious. In addition, it should be borne in mind that the current social and economic situation has an important impact on the functioning and activities of extremist groups throughout the European Union, where they are increasingly active. Extremist groups in Slovenia, according to the competent authorities, currently pose a low level of threat to national security. Although the Slovenian legal order also contains provisions that provide comprehensive constitutional protection against discrimination, prejudice, violence and hatred, most of the professional public notes that the legislation in force does not allow for preventive control of action and effective action against the activities of extremist groups that promote the ideology of racism, xenophobia, anti-Semitism, homophobia. International practice also shows that the tools now available to Slovenia are not effective enough. Therefore, in view of the difficulties facing the phenomenon of extremism in Slovenia, an intervention in existing legislation should be considered and, above all, the practice of detection, prevention and effective prosecution or punishment should be applied in this area. In a brief review of the legislation, the Commission of Inquiry is laying down legal arrangements related to the emergence of extremism in six legal acts: the Constitution, the Penal Code, the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace, the Law on Society, the Law on Religious Freedom and the Law on Media. When looking for the definition of extremism, the commission of inquiry is first trying to present extremism and extremist movements. In doing so, she found that we do not have a generally established and identifiable definition of extremism in the Republic of Slovenia. The latter means that the competent authorities approach separately, each in its own way to deal with this phenomenon and the prosecution of the crimes committed by individual members of extremist groups or extremist groups. In doing so, it should be noted that, apart from terrorism, the remaining crimes of extremist groups are not at all persecutable within the so-called association. The Investigative Commission considers that everyone, even a single case, is too much and that it is a matter of endangering the safety of the whole society and not just the affected individuals, since the objective of extremist groups is not only individuals but also the social structure as such. This threatens the whole society, and in general, it makes sense for these groups to prevent or immediately sanction their operation. In the case of extremism, it is not the world view, it is the legitimate political beliefs, it is the actions committed against the rule of law and democracy that undermine constitutional and social order. It should be distinguished from radicalism. Extremism is expressed as a relation to accepted values, rules and behaviours. Extremism has several different faces and is also different in intensity. In the interim report we then briefly presented left, right and religious extremism. We then gave special emphasis to the so-called enemy speech. In doing so, the Commission notes that a democratic and tolerant society must allow its members to express and defend, publicly and privately, a variety of views and ideas, even though they seem provocative, stupid or even offensive. In cases where views and ideas affect the rights of individuals, society must restrict and protect the rights of individuals. The latter restrictions and incrimination should also apply to public encouragement to the hatred, violence or discrimination of an individual or a group of persons where there is a clear risk that expressing or defending views will escalate into violence. Finally, the Commission of Inquiry notes that in Slovenia the problem of hate speech is also related to the rhetoric of some political officials, and is spread by the media. The commission of inquiry then offers the definition of extremism. Extremism is an expression that denotes activities that are morally, ideologically or politically contrary to the written laws and unwritten norms of the country; which are extremely impatient with others, reject democracy as a means of managing and solving problems and which, last but not least, reject the social order in force. However, extremism can also be defined as a second-level approach to violent extremism and third-level terrorism, which has already been precisely defined. A further and final set of essential findings is an analysis of the current Slovenian legislation. On the basis of the material gathered and the testimony of the expert witnesses, we propose the following amendments to the law: Article 297 of the Penal Code, amendment to the law on the protection of public order and peace, amendment to the Law on the tasks and powers of the police, amendment to the law governing public order, or in the system law on offences, amendment to the law on public servants, amendment to the law on the financing of political parties and amendment to the Law on Media. In the interim report, the Commission of Inquiry has taken advantage of the business option and proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a decision to establish that both at European Union level and in individual Member States, with the Republic of Slovenia no exception, reinforce extremism. The national assembly shall propose, by a decision, to the competent authorities to prepare, in accordance with the above-mentioned proposals for amending legislation and the essential findings of the parliamentary inquiry, proposals for amendments or additions to legislation which mainly governs the field of criminal law, public order and peace, the police, breaches of public servants, political parties and the media. I propose that the National Assembly adopt the proposed decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u153	Thank you, too. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jerko Čehovin will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u154	Colleagues and colleagues, the ones you've endured! The concept of extremism doesn't know our legal order. It is a social phenomenon that each country must take extremely seriously and thus approach it, especially in the light of acts that can result in violence. In modern history, extremism is primarily referred to as the ideology and actions that are directed against the rule of law and democracy and undermine constitutional and social order, as well as the emergence of nationalism and racism, anti-Semitism. It is undeniable that extremism is also present in the Republic of Slovenia. In this regard, I would like to draw attention to the need for each country and society to reach a consensus on which those extremist phenomena and groups should be monitored, limited and prevented. This group certainly includes terrorism as an extreme form of extremism, intolerance, xenophobia, racism and the emergence of hate speech, left, right and other extremism, and, of course, religious extremism. I hope that someone will not misinterpret us when we wish to draw attention to a kind of paradox that democracy as the highest social imperative in modern democratic societies makes possible extremism. More freedom, more democracy also means more freedom and democracy for potential extremists. It is worth noting that in the countries where we so like to imitate ourselves, these issues are dealt with with with with with the utmost seriousness and responsibility. We should be defending zero tolerance for these extremist groups. The Commission of Inquiry has been requested by Positive Slovenia with the assistance of some other Members. As you know, Positive Slovenia was at the time when it pointed out that the appearance and functioning of extremist groups in the Republic of Slovenia constituted a first-class political issue, rather lonely and had to resort to a so-called minority parliamentary investigation. The Law on Parliamentary Investigation allows a quarter of Members to submit a request on the basis of which a parliamentary inquiry is to be initiated without then voting on the National Assembly. This was also encouraged by the fact that the problems of extremism in the Republic of Slovenia have been avoided by the current authorities and ruling coalitions, whether left or right, for almost two decades, and thus left open the question of the existence of extreme groups in our country, allowing a wide range of their operations and inviolability. The purpose of the parliamentary investigation is not a political account either with the left or with right extremists, but a finding of the actual situation, as well as a search for an answer to the question whether an extremist group endangers state security and the social structure. Although the parliamentary commission of inquiry does not enjoy the reputation and trust of the public, this parliamentary inquiry has proved to be justified and necessary so far, in our opinion. In addition, unlike some of the investigative commissions so far, it is effective and focused on work rather than on political struggle. The latter, however, can be claimed only for those members of the commission who come from the ruling coalition. There was little talk about the commission’s work in public, even though some members of the commission made it difficult or tried to prevent the investigation from progressing. Members and presidents of the ruling coalition conducted the first two investigations without getting involved in senseless politicisation and even politics, which some members of the opposition commission in particular enjoyed. Thus far, the phenomenon and functioning of extremist groups has been tolerated and all of this on behalf of the right to unification and freedom of speech, and the greatest paradox in this regard is shown by the fact that freedom is expressed in accordance with the above-mentioned political tradition of liberalism, since the hate speech is "a category limited by the Constitution". In sanctioning an enemy speech, the State shall ensure public order and peace and the protection of vulnerable individuals or groups. However, it is also apparent that the provision of this parliamentary inquiry is satisfied only by the normative regulation of the part of the problem of extremism, which has proved to be flawed at the top of everything, that is not perceived or recognised by certain competent authorities implementing this legislation, such as the State Prosecutor's Office, the Ministry of Education and so on. This finding is crucial or essential for legislative changes, which means that the competent authorities, except intelligence and security authorities, such as the prosecutions, courts, approach separately, each in their own way to face this phenomenon and prosecute the crimes committed by individuals, members of extremist groups. Apart from terrorism, all crimes committed by extremist groups are not persecutable in the so-called association. Partial approaches without an appropriate single strategy and focus on prosecution alone have always proved unsuccessful. Based on the material collected so far and the testimony of expert witnesses, it is possible to establish that all national security authorities and expert witnesses determine the existence of extreme groups in Slovenia; both left and right, Islamic and national security threats. It is of concern, however, that some other competent state authorities or even competent government ministers have, in preparing the government report, assessed that Slovenia has legislation in the field of criminal law that reflects all modern and internationally established practices and standards, and the Minister refers only to the appropriateness of defining the most extreme form of extremism, namely terrorism. In this regard, it should be noted that Slovenia has faithfully transposed international commitments in this area only after the intervention of the international organisations to which it is a member. In addition, terrorism is only one possible strategy for the action of extremist groups, and it is not necessarily used by these groups at all. Therefore, a comprehensive regime, i.e. only one of the strategies of these groups, is insufficient in dealing with the phenomenon, because it does not cover the whole spectrum of the activities of these groups, and also in the event that these groups nevertheless decide to act terroristly, the police will probably not detect it in time because they do not have the authority to obtain and evaluate information on the operation of extremist groups. It would also be difficult, or at all, for the police to take preventive action in the case of the so-called Lone Actor, the lone wolf, or extreme right-wing man Anders Breivik in Norway, who killed 77 people in bombings and mass shootings. In Positive Slovenia, we point out that each and every individual case is too much and that it is a matter of endangering the safety of all of us, not only the affected individuals, because the goal of extremist groups is not individuals, but rather the social structure and state regulation as such. We are thus at risk for all members of society, and in general the purpose of these groups is to prevent or immediately sanction their operation. If there is an escalation or radicalisation of their operation, it will be too late or too much social damage. In Positive Slovenia, we hope that the change in the attitude of the competent state authorities and the competent minister towards the issue of extremism will be influenced, in addition to the findings of the commission of inquiry, by the calls of the European Commission, which called on members to take a firmer stand on the brink of violent extremism, as there is a risk that extremist and populist forces will be further strengthened by the European elections in 2014. Most of the EU's rules dealing with hostile, racist and xenophobic acts have not yet been properly transposed, not to mention the European Commission's report, which identifies 10 areas where Member States and the European Union should strengthen their measures to prevent all forms of extremism leading to violence, regardless of who supports it. In doing so, it is worth recalling that the conference and the meetings of the RAN are also attended by Slovenia or by the competent state authorities, but it appears so far that there are no more serious intentions. Finally, the problem of extremism in the Republic of Slovenia was also highlighted by public broadcasting, which in this week presented the operation and integration of extremist groups, including the names of some of their leaders. Citizens and citizens are entitled to know the facts and to know whether we can be concerned about this phenomenon. In view of the investigation carried out so far, it shows that the situation concerning instruments to combat this phenomenon and the functioning of national security authorities is much worse than has been made public so far. While the Slovenian legal order or legislation also contains provisions that provide even constitutional protection against discrimination, prejudice, violence and hatred, the majority of the professional public notes that the legislation in force does not allow for preventive control of action and effective action against the activities of extremist groups that promote the ideology of racism, xenophobia, anti-Semitism, homophobia and so on. Some countries are even prohibited from operating certain extremist groups. The question is how national security authorities should respond appropriately if they do not have the appropriate legal basis. However, before that, it is necessary to identify those groups, the movements whose activities constitute a threat to democracy, constitutional order and public order and peace. In the case of extremism, therefore, it is not the world view, the legitimate beliefs, but the facts, the actions against the rule of law and the democratic state that undermine its constitutional and social order. We cannot, of course, ignore the multi-disciplinary approach to dealing with extremism. We therefore agree in the parliamentary group with the key findings of the investigative commission and support the proposed legislative changes. In Positive Slovenia, we will also support the decision proposed by the Commission of Inquiry to find that both at European Union level and in individual Member States, the Republic of Slovenia is not an exception, strengthening extremism. It is important, however, that the competent authorities prepare, in accordance with those proposals, amendments to the legislation and the essential findings of the parliamentary inquiry, proposals for amendments or additions to the legislation already mentioned. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u155	Thank you, too. Mr Dragutin Mate will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u156	Good-bye. Mr President, thank you very much for your words. My colleagues, thank you for following this debate, and I am sure that others who are not present are following our debate in one way or another. I would like to begin my presentation with the sentence I used when introducing the commission of inquiry: "All extremists who promote violence and spread national, racial, religious or other intolerance and hatred or activity are totally unacceptable." It is true; absolutely, all, equally, no matter how and by what means we disperse and how we cause them to move on. Let's go from the top. The start or debate on extremism and on the phenomena of extremism in our society dates back to 2012; it is now during the debate at the Commission on Intelligence and Security Services, where we have also reached this issue in our consideration of the budget in the intelligence and security services and we have been promised to get a report on this. I think that goes back to March 2012. 24. 5. 2012 KNOVS tried to start a discussion on this topic. Regrettably, there have been several phone calls made by this committee illegal, so the debate did not take place immediately, however. Despite the initial difficulties, we started this debate, continued it and experienced a blockade at the end of 2012 in this debate. The blockade was caused by a group of Members who, last January, made a request to the National Assembly to establish an investigative commission for extremists in Slovenia. It's extremely unusual! However, the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services has not ceased its work. She did not stop her work, continued her work and adopted conclusions in June 2013; conclusions that were very exact and adopted unanimously. In this report and in the conclusions which were public, but I do not think the public knows them enough yet, it sent conclusions to all those who must; in the first place to the Government and then, of course, to all the competent ministers, as well as to all the services. It's called civil intelligence, military intelligence, as well as the police, and the criminal police within this police force. In doing so, particular emphasis should be placed on what the Commission has found out. She found, in the text, the accompanying text she had sent and adopted unanimously, with the full agreement of all political parties in the National Assembly, the following text: "Discussion with the competent services on the issue" – says extremism – "has shown that today's society, in addition to facing the financial and economic crisis, has problems about how to deal effectively with multiculturalism, how from all the problems of today's society to preserve cultural diversity, how to integrate multiculturalism into education, how to change the thinking of present generations and how to further open their minds. Young people need to learn to express their opinions freely, to listen to others, and to try to understand their different viewpoints on life. Every society's system is one that has to help overcome thinking that expresses intolerance, inequality, exclusion and conflicting values." Of course, this was followed by five conclusions. These conclusions — very briefly, that I will not read and tire everyone out — spoke about the fact that the Commission had come to the realization that legal changes needed to be changed. Practically all these areas have been mentioned, which we could have listened to in the presentations of both the President of the Commission and a member of the Commission on behalf of the parliamentary group. Moreover, we have found that some of the services have already tried to implement some of the changes they have found or have come to realize, but the government, in the year that this was proposed, did not have any hearing to change it, and in the police, these proposals were rejected already within the Ministry of the Interior system. We have, of course, pointed out that such proposals should be re-examined and attempted to form, or that we have proposed to the Government to prepare an inter-resort working group, which within 6 months of the preparation of proposals for legislative amendment, and we have proposed to inform the Commission and Parliament, of course, within 15 days of the appointment of the expert commission to prepare these amendments. Unfortunately, however, look at the fraction, to this day – this decision has been adopted 6. 5. 2012 to 6. 12. By 2012, in 6 months and until today, until today, the Government had not replied with any letter and had not responded to any of this request. Why is that important? It is important because the signatories are the demands for an investigative commission on extremism to a large extent the people who are sitting in the most important places in the government today: the first person – the President of the Government. If Positive Slovenia was so serious about changes in such a serious area, one would expect something to be done in this area from March of last year. We have lost valuable time, we have lost many months in which we could have prepared all of this, which we have been dealing with for the last half of the year and for 7 months, since the commission of inquiry started working and then, respected colleagues and colleagues, we have been members, who have also been mentioned here several times, saying that we want to make it difficult for the Commission to block the work of the commission and not know what else, we have warned and asked our colleagues, especially from Positive Slovenia, that they should do something about it, that the Government, which has made a request for this commission of inquiry, has taken steps to help us to be more effective in dealing with this social phenomenon. Dear colleagues and colleagues, perhaps some of you have not read very carefully the texts and conclusions that we have adopted on the committee for the supervision of intelligence and security services and that is why I have read that first sentence as a quote because we have pointed out the essence of the problems; the essence of the problems that experts are also pointing to. Even those who have been questioned before the commission of inquiry about not being the main tool for combating extremism of repression, but education; education in our schools and not starting in schools begins in kindergartens. It begins with the way we accept things differently, not the way that we postpone meetings when someone is absent because he is absent from death in the family, thus preventing him from presenting his opinion and expressing his legitimate views, which are not hostile, who are just talking about the expertise of the work. Now I would like to touch very briefly on the report itself. I believe, colleagues and colleagues, that you have read both the report and the separate opinion on this report, so I would not like to talk long and wide about the problems we have and the sentences we have. This text has even been improved to some extent, including by some of the proposals I myself have proposed, because some of the dictions have indeed been extremely unusual. But there are still many very unusual sentences in the text. It would be very difficult to take – and this was my main decision, why I personally decided that I should give a separate opinion on this report – a dictatorship that is at the beginning of a significant 42nd page, where it is stated that all governments have so far left a broad field of action and inviolability for groups. That's not true! Governments have dealt with this problem, they have dealt with it, and the authorities responsible for controlling these groups – the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services is one of the recipients of regular 4-month reports on the state of security in our country. These are regular reports that come several times a year and that also define the level of risk in the field of extremism. They also briefly describe what kind of extremism is, what is, what is, and what is, about. Reports are, of course, secret and therefore not known to the general public. However, they are known to all members of the Commission and also to all Members of the Commission who have an interest and wish to read these reports. All Members have the right to see this, only to announce themselves and to come to the place where this reading is enabled. The following report explicitly states that the Commission is justified and necessary. Yes, the Commission would be justified and necessary if the work done from May 2012 to June 2013 had not been done. Then we would really need it, at least this first part, because the work is divided into two parts. In doing so, it must be made very clear that I have been working with the Commission all the time, and I insist on doing so today. Someone signed a request for an investigative commission, then he got the government in his hands, things changed last January, in March he got the government, and then despite constructive proposals, I demand from the National Assembly, because the commission is only part of the National Assembly, he did nothing in this area. So, of course, a person has always had a question or a strange taste of what is going on in this regard. Moreover, the Government has sent us reports entitled Law Analysis, and they have given us a degree of secrecy internally and by letters, my letters, this rate has been withdrawn because this is totally unjustified – how can an authority put on a material that does the analysis of the legislation, saying, documents that we can all read to keep the level of secrecy internally!? There were great pains, and for three months we waited for them to finally withdraw the level of secrecy from such a banal document. Why? Because, in this report, the Government has said that there is no need to amend legislation. Now, which minister, whose ministry, anyway, I don't care: the government signed under it! The government accepted it and sent it forward. And here lies one of the problems. The other problem is that we want to define what extremism is in every way. Let's see the truth about this. It's very simple. How many countries in the European Union do they have in their legislation the definition of extremism? How many, respected colleagues and colleagues? One alone! Only Slovakia. No other country has this in its legislation. Because it is extremely difficult to define such a concept in such a precise way as to cover all the emerging forms. That's probably why. However, they have legislation that they try to deal effectively with various emerging forms – and they are perceptible to all emerging forms, not just some. If I go to the end, because then I will probably say a word in the debate in this regard, I would like to say why our Group disagrees with such a report and why I, also on behalf of the Group of Members and also on behalf of myself, have given a separate opinion. First of all, because in the conclusions we have before us, we do not actually confirm the report. It is not proposed in the decision to approve the report. He's not here or I can't read. We have only two conclusions that say that there is a need to amend legislation in a substantially more distorted and poor form, but do not impose any deadlines on the Government in which this is expected. And, of course, the first one, which is very unusual: talk about something that we haven't talked about on the committee and whose materials we haven't had. As it begins, I quote: 'The National Assembly notes that this is the way at European Union level' – at European Union level – I repeat, 'as in individual Member States' – so any – 'where the Republic of Slovenia is no exception, it strengthens extremism'. No document was presented to me on the committee to confirm this. As a member of the National Assembly, I do not dare judge and tell myself what the situation is in other countries. It is true that in newspapers we can read that such demonstrations of extremists who escalate, cause violence, cause so much and so much damage to property, cars, and so on. That's what we all meet. That's true, but the analysis was not done. And I don't know how we're going to accept that our National Assembly is going to be targeting the European Union and individual members, I don't know which members, to say that they have a reinforced extremism. In some, it's probably true, but in some, it probably isn't. Of course, I cannot personally support such a conclusion. And the joints are offered in a package. Therefore, me and our Group of Members cannot support such conclusions. In fact, there is no decision in these conclusions to accept this report or to reject it, I do not know what we are doing with it, it will remain in the air, inconsequential. Today I have heard here a very difficult word: because they do not agree with the report, that means they are against the investigation. I don't know, I can understand that maybe by not wanting to discuss extremism, but that's not the case. I myself, for more than a year at the very first time in the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services, have been extremely active in these discussions and have also made a significant contribution to the adoption of such conclusions, since I was already the President of this Commission at the last stage. Alone and my client are absolutely, firmly, resolutely, standing in the position I have read in the introduction, which I have presented even when the Commission of Inquiry was establishing itself, and I will repeat it: "All extremists who promote violence and spread national, racial, religious or other intolerance and hatred and activity are totally unacceptable." However, I fear that our objective with this investigation group has not been achieved. A few days ago, I watched a TV show that did not help us to deal better and more effectively with this social phenomenon because only one extremism was presented. All the emerging forms of extremism must be presented, and I fear that such broadcasts and how they came about, from where the data was drawn, we will still have much to talk about in the National Assembly on various commissions, because there is much to be learned from the broadcast that has been seen. Such broadcasts actually encourage further exacerbation between the various extreme groups, not between us Members. This will happen to us every day, outside, among the people, and unfortunately we are witnessing that this Commission, instead of contributing and taking advantage of a unique opportunity to upgrade the work that the National Assembly has done and that it has been done by all Members of all the parliamentary groups within the Commission to oversee intelligence and security services, we have taken a step back. We have gone into a political reinterpretation of the Commission's conclusions on the control of intelligence and security services, and unfortunately this is a step backwards that will not most likely help us as a society to deal more effectively with all, I stress, with all the types of extremism that occur in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u157	Thank you, too. Dr Ljubica Jelusic will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice hello to you all! There are fewer of us, and I hope that that's why those of us who have survived and remain are so much more interested in the subject that we are considering right now. The issue of extreme groups was addressed by the National Assembly in 2012, when it was first addressed by the Security and Intelligence Supervisory Commission, and in January 2013 a special investigative committee for this area was appointed. In determining its course of work, the Commission of Inquiry decided that the first part of its work should focus primarily on determining the extent of this phenomenon in Slovenia and how to regulate it legally and on this basis an interim report has also been drawn up. Social Democrats believe that the first phase of the Commission's action has shown a number of important features of the phenomenon of extremism in our country and the political will to deal with it so far. However, we believe that a final assessment will be possible after the second phase of the investigation, in which the answers to some of the questions and dilemmas we have detected in the first phase can be crystallized, but we have not yet found the appropriate answers to them. We also assess that the plenary debate in this report could show what the current political will is as regards the in-depth public debate on the problem of extreme groups, as well as whether we have enough political will to move forward with this dimension of security in Slovenia and Europe, or whether we will remain in the report and remain silent. We drew up the report on the basis of the findings from the two research tasks they had prepared in the National Electoral Research Service, then on the basis of the testimony of six expert witnesses, and on the basis of a discussion with the representatives of the security services in the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of the findings of the Commission on Security and Intelligence Services, then on the basis of the documentation obtained by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, then the reports of the Sova, OSCE, the Ombudsman and the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office. We also used publicly available scientific and professional resources. We are aware that more resources and even more diopasone positions could be taken into account. After all, it is a subject that develops every day and we are again and again faced with the dilemma of whether radical political behaviour in the public is acceptable or not. Reports that we have had at our disposal often state that the government or its segments are subject to zero tolerance for extreme groups and their sympathizers, but whether it is a real practice, or whether it is a more comforting position for the public to ask what is happening in Slovenia, to use granite cubes against police and parliaments in front of Parliament, or to have an organized group of extremists with a Celtic cross on a banner, who are involved in provocations between demonstrators, or that there are also members of the Slovenian Armed Forces among detained bullies, or that the massacres following the monuments of Fascist violence in return are carried out by extremists from Slovenia. Social Democrats believe that, in our public and also in Parliament, there are too few in-depth and serious debates on the radicalisation of Slovenian society and that the emergence of extreme groups is being pushed into oblivion by both our consciousness and political measures. In assessing security, the State is encouraged by the findings of the intelligence and security agency that Slovenia’s level of risk with regard to extremist groups and trends is low. At the same time, in almost the same reports of the intelligence services and the police, we find that extremism is poorly defined in us, that we do not have the legal definition of extremism and that Article 297 of the Penal Code is used to sanction this phenomenon, which is so complicated that it is almost impossible to apply it in practice. In view of this situation, I argue that the security assessments of the relevant services may not reflect the overall security phenomenon of extreme groups and trends in Slovenia. I have no basis for doubting that the level of threat caused by extreme groups is low, but this assessment needs to be put in correlation with other, more primary forms of threat posed by modern society. All I'm saying is that the whole phenomenon of extremists in our security company may not have been detected. Why? First of all, because it is a question that only part of its appearance touches on the competence of security services. When it comes to violence, which is treated as a crime, or as an offence, or as an hate speech. Under our legislation, the security services do not have the authority to verify in advance the indications that a crime is being committed, but it is groups that are organised in the long term and are acting best in a society of universal ignorance and alienation. We are dealing with organisations that are very intelligently organised and carefully choose modes of action in which they do not come into contact with state institutions. For example, they are not organised as a society, they carry out their actions outside the reach of the public, i.e. at private parties and concerts, such as where invitations are personally and in the form of SMS. T-shirts and extreme symbols come from our schoolmates on unknown, generally friendly paths. Extreme groups also use methods that are characteristic of non-violence movements – such as: be and, sit and – members appear at certain public meetings and events where freedom of association is respected, they spend some time there, they alert themselves with their clothes, tattoos and inscriptions and disappear. In short, we will not find all these forms of action in police statistics on crimes and offences. It is therefore possible to question the assessment of the degree of presence of these trends in our society. This is also one of the open issues of this interim report, how much in fact there are already members of extreme groups in Slovenia, and of course not such ones with a membership card, but such, deeply indoctrinated, qualified and secularly convinced of their extreme ideologies and comrades in the group. How many of those young people in secondary and primary schools who may be in the recruitment phase for these movements right now? However, the reason for our youth to be radicalised is that we already have enough in the data on their social situation and social marginalisation as soon as they emerge from the compulsory educational process. One of the expert witnesses mentioned that there could be up to 150 people in our society who are ready to take any extreme action at any moment. That's supposed to be police data. And almost the same day, when the witness spoke about it, the police sent out a denial of his allegations to the public. You will find the controversy in the report in very detail. The question to me is why the police dementors. Is it because these prepared extremists are actually less or perhaps more substantial? However, in this same denial, the police are also hiding the answer to some other dilemmas. It tells us that we do not have a definition of extremism in Slovenia and Europol. So we're talking about a phenomenon that doesn't have a name. It is suppressed on the margins of our awareness, rather than on its emerging forms, we discuss and leave it in the hands of the security authorities, together with very impotent legislation in this area. We wrote down the definition of extremism in the report. But not a legal definition, but a generally understandable definition of extremism. We borrowed it from the scientific part of one of the Slovenian advocates, Dr. Andre Sotler, who wrote among the few of us about the problem of defining extremism. At the suggestion of the Committee member Dragutin Matei, we summarized the classification of the extreme groups through NATO and EU security studies. The Commission has also prepared a set of laws to be supplemented with concrete articles if we want to regulate the issue of extremism in a more appropriate manner. We believe that in addition to the legislative dimension of this problem, the educational or educational dimension is increasingly highlighted. The emerging forms and symbols of extremists must be taught by the whole society, but most of all the intelligence and security services, and we also assess the need to educate teachers in identifying extremists or in identifying recruitment for extremists in school premises. In schools there is still time and space for organised education on the problem of extremists. In this belief, we are also strengthened by the international debate on extremism. Done at Spiegel of 29. 1. 2014, this is two days ago, let us refer to the article on large-scale discussion in Germany about what to do with students who are members of neo-Nazi groups. Name them, embarrass them, ignore them, fire them from universities or prescribe them reeducational study programs? Practices are different. Also on the side of student organisations; sometimes they are neo-Nazi members of student leadership; elsewhere they publicly point to them in classrooms. They point out that they study the most often the law so that they can represent the rights of their comrades before the courts as their lawyers or often go to teaching professions so that they can pass on Nazi ideology to children. What do we do in Slovenia? We may also find answers to these questions at the second stage of the work of the commission of inquiry. In the Social Democrats Group, the conclusions of the report are fully supported and we hope that our National Assembly is not on the side of those who ignore the issue of extreme movements. However, we are aware that there are also discussions about these phenomenal swords. We may bring more fear to citizens who are already in enough trouble, or we may tell extremes that they are winning because we have noticed them and they are worth our attention. And to warn extremists is, they say, the best commercial for them. And that is also what Der Spiegel notes in this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u159	Thank you, too. Mr Branko Kurnjek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u160	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good evening, everyone! I am sorry that I will have to read the position more quickly, for I do not have much time to announce. Your Honor! Although this is the position of the Group of Members, the opinion of the Group of Members is also reflected in my position as a member of the Commission of Inquiry for the determination and assessment of the activities of extremist groups. From the outset, I would like to announce that we will support the proposals for conclusions in the interim report in the Civil Gazette. Let me point out in the introduction that, despite some different views, this Commission will justify its existence, even if only one act of an individual or an extremist group is prevented, which could otherwise have occurred. And even though it would eventually prove that the Commission has achieved the most by launching a public debate on this, the objective will be positive, as its purpose will be reflected in an educational sense. That extremism and consequently extremist acts in Slovenia are not taboos, we are not only reminded of some of the events that took place as part of the legal protests that started in Maribor in 2012 and then spread to other Slovenian cities, but some of the acts that could be defined as extremist have occurred in our country before. The content work of the Parliamentary Commission is divided into two parts; the first part, which is also addressed in the interim report, refers to findings that could be the basis for possible legislative changes to prevent action and to control extremist groups. One of the priorities of the Commission was to make a proposal for the definition of extremism. The fact that this task is not simple speaks of the fact that only Slovakia is aware of the definition in the European Union, but we cannot go beyond the fact that, in fact, every single thing and every single act can be described in words. From this point of view, the arguments that they do not have definitions in other countries may also be irrelevant. The Commission has adopted today's proposal on the definition of extremism, which could also be the basis for addressing extremism from a legislative point of view. On the basis of all the data collected, we can say that Slovenia is not immune to certain types of extremism, as we have both left and right and religious movements with extremist tendencies. However, it should be stressed that the level of national security risk in all emerging forms is low, but we must not forget the particular type of danger posed by so-called lone wolves whose purposes are difficult to identify or control in advance. As a particular form of extremism, I would like to mention the hate speech, which is obviously the most common, but because of its intrusiveness and high freedom of expression, it is difficult to prove and persecutive, but nevertheless very dangerous. Online services, forums, social networks, online media are the generators of hate speech and control over them is very limited. In the interim report, I would like to draw particular attention to point 3.7, which discusses proposals for amending legislation and, under this point, to subparagraph 3.7.1, which refers to the Penal Code and its 297th Article, which defines the public promotion of hatred, violence or intolerance. The Commission proposes to supplement this Article, which has proved in practice to be difficult to disclose and consequently rarely to use. Perhaps I would also like to draw attention to sub-paragraph 3.7.3, which discusses the law on the duties and powers of the police. In the light of these and other proposals for possible legislative changes, the Commission has written down in its opinion, quote, "that proposals for legislative amendment represent only one possible way of dealing with this problem, by interfering with sectoral legislation." The Commission also asked itself whether it would be better to have a specific system law and, of course, a broader substantive and political assessment would be necessary for the latter. A special law would make sense if the security risk increased. In spite of all this, the Commission may have relied on data and reports from various competent state authorities, on professional literature, on research prepared in the professional services of the National Assembly, on expert witnesses' hearings and on the professional assistance of Dr. Peter Umk. There may also not be too much information on this site that the majority of the members of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services, which has given the Commission special value. Since the President of the Commission has already stated in the report the other frames of the report, due to the objective knowledge of Members and Members, as well as of the public, he would like to make his views and views on certain statements and conclusions of the authors of the separate opinion by Mr Matei, Pukšič and Tonin, a few points which he would like to say. First time. A separate opinion states that the expert witnesses interviewed by the Commission were selected as political by the Commission's proposals. From my point of view, witnesses were interviewed who deal with the phenomena of extremism in both academic and practical terms. Each member had the opportunity to propose expert witnesses, and if the hearings seemed like, for example, to whom a political unilateral one could, in its opinion, "neutralise" them with the proposals of additional witnesses. Thus, such a claim cannot be held back. Most likely, though, that each one of us is politically oriented in such a way or in a different way, hidden or in a public way, is something natural. If we were to look at this strictly formally, then there could be no expert witnesses at all if we all had political beliefs. It is true, however, that expert witnesses are expected that their political beliefs should not affect their expert opinions. Another time. A separate opinion states that one of the expert witnesses, without specific indications or evidence, has flatly assessed that some groups or associations in Slovenia are extremist, which also has elements of the crime of regret. Given that the exact definition of extremism has not been adopted, such assessments may be quite subjective. This can, for example, be a good example, that an accepted definition could remove such doubts. Third time. It is stated that it is known that, I quote, "when the government has a more left-wing policy, there is a right-wing presence of such individuals or groups, and when the government is governed by a more conservative, right-wing policy, there is a left-handed action of groups or individuals." End of quote. That's what he's holding, but he's holding it in part. In fact, extremist groups or individuals reflect not only political beliefs, but their opposition is also directed at minorities, against racial, sexual, religious beliefs, which is not necessarily or is not related to the political situation at a certain point in time. Fourth time. In my statements, I quote that "the work of the commission of inquiry has been misused for the daily political needs of the current authorities or parties to the left political bloc" – the end of the quote. Furthermore, I quote: "With the emphasis of the so-called right-wing extremism, most of the members of the commission wanted to prevent the discussion of other phenomena such as the left-wing, Islamic or other extremists." End of quote. Furthermore, I quote that "games for excessive treatment of only one extremism" – the end of the quote – are, to put it mildly, misleading and misleading, as the Commission's meetings did not reflect it, as well as the mid-term report treats both left and right extremism evenly. Fifth. I quote from a separate opinion that "the investigative commission wanted to define extremism, but the tasks mentioned were not partial, which is also due to our political reality" – the end of the quote – does not hold, since the Commission was aware at the outset that the definition would be a very difficult task. It is also a proposal for a definition in the interim report, which is also able to be changed. Six. The statement from a separate opinion, I quote, that "in the opinion of the authors of a separate opinion, the investigative commission has done a bad job" – the end of the quote – is, of course, an subjective assessment. I agree, however, that it is likely that work could have been done better if the Commissions were to participate more frequently also in some members, which were mostly absent from the meeting; I will not tell who it is. It's a week. The authors of a separate opinion sometimes underestimate the knowledge of other members of the Commission. I do not know where the right and also the justification for such valuable judgments is. Otherwise, even if a person had all the knowledge of this world, that would not mean that he would always be right. Ten years. It's an 8th time, I'm sorry. [[…]] Obvious incompetence and a simultaneous desire for the "immediate political use of the report to deal with political opponents". I refer to this as delusions and delusions that do not reflect actual facts. Unfortunately, in my view, the content of a separate opinion is exactly what the Commission of Inquiry wants to make artificially polar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u161	Thank you. Mr Franz Pukšič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u162	Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues, President of the National Assembly, Secretary of State! In fact, I’m not worried that there are so few of us at this point that it’s Friday night, when we should have been somewhere long ago in a general assembly in our constituency or something. The fact is that this topic is not important, and the fact is that some would like to give it a special weight, and even the Government does not give it a special weight, so the government also wrote in its 2013 report that the threat of extremism is low. And the fact is that some of us have decided on a separate opinion also because we thought that this first phase was irrelevant, unnecessary, takes only time and money, because all or more of this was done by the Commission for Security and Intelligence. And the fact is, colleagues and colleagues, that this report was adopted unanimously by all parliamentary political parties. So no one's been teasing anyone. Why? Because it was not politically motivated and because it was professional, because it was on the basis of arguments, what we have before us was a political stalemate that we need to talk about today. Today, the interim report presents the work of another investigative commission, which is working its way along the road, as was done years ago by the investigative commission on Patria. That's what Milan M. Squeakl was in charge of. The text of the interim report we have under consideration is intended for easy reading and does not have specific added value. This was also assessed in the Tuesday’s broadcast on what is called right-wing extremism. In our parliamentary group, we regret that the Commission of Inquiry has missed the opportunity to speak publicly and impartially about such phenomena and to try to find quality solutions that would reduce this emerging problem, but not encourage. This was also the subject of a report adopted by the Intelligence and Security Services Commission. The question that the Commission of Inquiry should demonstrate in its work is that it would first impartially identify which groups, individuals and movements are present in Slovenia, which forms are more widespread in the region, because they are in some way conditioned by their presence and development in the future. Depending, of course, on what our economic, political and cultural climate will be, as well as on the wider region, Europe and the world. Through the way the commission of inquiry has worked, you have incited hatred by means of biased statements by individual speakers at meetings with incredible images of this problem, including on TV shows, articles and contributions. People who have already been pushed to the brink of society because of poor economic and social policy, with increasingly low social rights and low economic protection, are further marginalised. All these groups are being pushed further into different closed circles. How do these closed groups of people come into being? Have you studied that? That would be the work of our investigative commission. If you read the real records of these individuals’ conversations, which are dangerous to you extremists, you will find that most — not all of them, but mostly — are unable to pay for the goods needed for a decent life. Some have jobs, but they do not receive wages for their jobs or receive them with months behind. This is passed on to their children, who often do not have money for food. I'm sorry. This is evident from discussions about how they perceive their position in society between peers and social groups, and how their parents experience it with their children. It is not true that these groups are for people who are economically well-sustained, as shown in the shows. Good economics are those who prepare and write such articles that place people in extreme groups The Commission has not reached any useful conclusions or new facts on the basis of which to assess where these events will lead our society. The Commission of Inquiry has only achieved that it has biasedly talked about the presence of extreme groups and movements in Slovenia. The Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission discussed these emerging forms for one and a half years. Its discussions with the competent services on these issues, particularly in the event of violent incidents by different groups and individuals during demonstrations, have shown that society, in addition to dealing with the financial and economic crisis, has a problem with how to deal effectively with multiculturalism, how to maintain cultural diversity in all difficulties, how to integrate multiculturalism into education, how to change the thinking of the present generation and how to further open their minds. Young people need to learn to think freely, to express their opinions freely, and especially to listen to others, and to try to understand their different viewpoints on life. The whole system is one that has to help overcome opinions that express intolerance, inequality, exclusion or opposing values, and this has been the public conclusion of the Commission's work on the supervision of intelligence and security services. The Commission also argued that no form of extremism should be tolerated. There is no zero tolerance; it is or is not tolerance. And the Committee on Intelligence and Security Services has made it clear that no form of extremism should be tolerated, and the Government and the competent services have called for the preparation of legal frameworks for effective over-exploitation – and you have been in power for some time. The current Government, however, responded to the Commission of Inquiry, not to the Intelligence and Security Services Commission, so that no change of legislation is necessary due to such phenomenal forms. With such political work as you say in the investigative commission and with the support of the biased media, respected colleagues and colleagues, you increase intolerance and hatred and separate our citizens. Respectable members of the coalition! Is right-wing extremism for you what I'm about to show you? Erik Valenčič, who was the author of Tuesday's show about right-wing extremism. Erik Valenčič with his Loyzet Peterlet T-shirt and the inscription "With Hamas in Gaza Loyza Peterle celebrates." Is this right-wing extremism for you too – Erik Valenčič with Bin Ladna shirt? Is Erik Valenčič with a screwdriver for you too? Colleagues and colleagues, that's not right! And if such ones are preparing broadcasts, then exactly what my colleague said before me will happen — by promoting extremism, by giving him a certain weight, meaning, and, of course, the result of such treatments here in the National Assembly, could be worse. Of course we don't want that. If, colleagues and colleagues, we also look at Europol's statistics, which shows that right extremism is actually fourth place. After deployment it is the first regional, left, Islamic and right. Unfortunately, your purpose is not to talk about extremism, but only about discrediting political opponents, whom you, of course, want to discredit in this way and with right extremism in a valuable way to show that the Slovenian right is linked to right extremism. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are proud to be a right-centred political party that can easily distance itself from the former totalitarian regime and its receptions, while some of you have proposals for the establishment of an investigative commission with this great difficulty. And finally, why do you have a separate opinion on this part? Also because some so-called expert witnesses have been politically profiled, other expert witnesses, who have come even from the judiciary, have been telling the truth before an investigative commission, which is also a criminal offence. They referred to official police records she had rejected the next day. The fact that we also had the opportunity to propose expert witnesses on this side – we are not, for the reasons I have already mentioned. This part was unnecessary, it was falsification, falsification of actual facts, including what your government has communicated. In the second part, we will also have to adhere to all the instruments in order to match you with expert witnesses.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u163	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u164	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At the beginning of the presentation of the DeSUS Group's position, let me briefly touch on the reasons for the participation of a member of our parliamentary group to participate in the Investigation Commission in identifying and assessing the activities of extremist groups in the Republic of Slovenia. Our primary purpose is to achieve, through the operation and conduct of investigations, the results of which will prove or disprove the facts, whether there are actually extremist groups in Slovenia, and if there are, what types of extremist groups exist, and not least how much real danger they pose to the political order of our country. The first part of the work of our commission of inquiry was also intended to obtain the most qualitative findings and assessments of the actual situation in the country, which could be the basis for amending legislation to prevent the operation and control of extremist groups. With the current ten-month active work of the commission of inquiry, we have reached half of our work at the seven sessions so far, this is the final drafting of the draft interim report. In this part of its operation, the Commission of Inquiry received material from nine bodies summarizing the state of extremism in Slovenia. We also took note of the research task of extremist organisations and their functioning, as well as of regulatory arrangements in 15 other countries. In addition, the Commission obtained material from the following national authorities: Slovenian Intelligence and Security Services, Ministry of Defence Intelligence and Security Services, the Ombudsman, the State Attorney's Office, the police, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport and the Commission of the National Intelligence and Security Services. Within the evidence procedure, the Commission of Inquiry also listened to statements by six expert witnesses interviewed by recognised experts, including prominent members of Slovenian universities. In preparing the draft interim report, however, I must certainly not miss the important professional assistance of our external expert investigative committee Dr. Peter Umk, who is certainly known in public as an exceptional specialist in criminal psychology. Its expertise in the prepared interim report is large, in particular its essential findings. The main part of the interim report contains the essential findings of the Commission and I should say that most of the members of the investigative commission support the interim report and that a separate opinion has been tabled by three members, so I expect the report to be adopted by the National Assembly. At the very beginning of the report, the Commission is of the opinion that the comprehensive problems of extremism in the Republic of Slovenia have been avoided by all the authorities since independence, leaving an open question about the existence of extreme groups in our country, thereby allowing for a wide range of action and inviolability of these groups, all on behalf of the right to unify and freedom of speech. Based on the material collected so far and the testimony of expert witnesses, it is possible to conclude that all national security authorities, expert witnesses, determine the existence of extreme groups in Slovenia both left and right and religious. In addition, I must point out that the current social and economic situation of water per mill is for the operation and activities of extremist groups both in our country and throughout the European Union, where their operation is increasing. But the undeniable fact is that extremist groups also exist in our country. These are organised and actually pose a risk, but for the time being, according to the assessment of our competent national authorities, pose a lower level of risk to national security. While Slovenian legislation also contains provisions that provide comprehensive constitutional protection against discrimination, prejudice, violence and hatred, the majority of the professional public notes that the legislation in force does not allow for preventive control of action and effective action against the actions of extremist groups that promote the ideology of racism, xenophobia, anti-Semitism and homophobia. In view of this fact, given the difficulties identified in dealing with the phenomenon of extremism in the Republic of Slovenia, certain interventions into existing legislation should also be considered. Above all, the practice of detection, prevention and effective prosecution or punishment must be implemented in this area. Of course, before that, what are those groups and movements whose operation poses a threat to democracy, constitutional order and public order and peace? Therefore, this moment raises the question of how state and security authorities should respond appropriately if they do not have the appropriate legal basis. When searching for the definition of extremism, the commission of inquiry tried first to present extremism and extremist movements. In doing so, she found that we do not have a generally established and recognized definition of extremism in the Republic of Slovenia. That conclusion, however, is crucial to the need to amend existing legislation. This means that the competent national authorities are now taking a separate approach, each in their own way, to dealing with this phenomenon and the prosecution of crimes caused by extremist groups or individuals by members of extremist groups. In doing so, it should be noted that, apart from terrorism, the remaining crimes of extremist groups are not at all persecutable in so-called associations. Otherwise, the activities of these groups should be prevented or immediately sanctioned. So it's a prevention, and it's a curate. In the Republic of Slovenia today there are so many left-wing, right-wing and religious extremists. Left-wing anarchists in our country do not pose a threat to constitutional regulation. Right-wing extremism is not, in principle, a threat to national security, but it can change if it receives more active support from political actors. Islamic extremism in our country, according to the assessment of the security authorities, is not so explicit as it is not detected by organisational groups, but there are militant individuals who could pose a security risk. In her work, the Commission of Inquiry also gave special emphasis to the so-called hate speech. The hate speech is an expression of opinions and ideas which, by their nature, are discriminatory, xenophobic, racist, homophobic and similar and are directed at different minorities: ethnic, national, religious, cultural, sexual and other. In doing so, the Commission notes that a democratic and tolerant society must allow its members to express and defend a wide range of views and ideas, both publicly and privately, even though they may seem provocative, stupid or even sometimes offensive. However, in cases where views and ideas affect the rights of individuals, society must restrict and protect the rights of the individual. The Commission of Inquiry thus offers a broader definition of extremism, which reads as follows: "Extremism is an expression that denotes activities that are morally, ideologically or politically contrary to written laws, both legal and constitutional, and unwritten norms of the country that are extremely impatient with others, reject democracy as a means of governance and a way to solve problems and which, finally, reject the current social order. However, extremism can also be defined as a second-level approach to violent extremism and third-level terrorism, which is already precisely defined." I am of the opinion that the Commission of Inquiry has done its job well so far and that the debate of the National Assembly, in addition to, of course, the content of this interim report itself, will be more than a good basis for the drafting of the necessary new laws, which should be amended in the opinion of the Commission of Inquiry. This interim report is also an excellent basis for the further successful work of our Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Otherwise, we are in the middle of a presentation of the positions of the groups. Please, tell me what your procedural proposal is.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u166	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Otherwise, I don't know if you heard what he said at the end of Mr Puksic's position; that is, he said that they would have to hold all the funds in the second part of the Commission of Inquiry. Now I wonder if this was a threat to the remaining members of the commission. In such a case, I think Mr Pukšič should explain this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u167	Mr Kurnjek, this was not a procedural proposal, it was a replica or a note and the rules of procedure do not even allow me to comment on this. We continue to present the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Matthew Tonin on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u168	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Extremism exists and will exist in the future. It develops and curses, in particular, from that part of the company which is dissatisfied with the current social arrangements. A part of the population also expresses its dissatisfaction with violent acts. Extremist groups thus act very differently and use different tools for their purposes. Some use "only" hate speech, others participate in protests, and those third, most problematic, use even violent acts and terrorism. As we have seen many times today, we have different forms of extremist groups in Slovenia. Left extremist groups, right extremist groups and Islamic extremist groups were identified. However, it seems important and crucial to me what are the official findings of security authorities such as the police and security intelligence services. The official findings, however, are that the level of threat to citizens is low. The fact is, however, that no security authority and no police force can prevent the operation of lone wolves, such as Breivik in Norway. This option always exists, it can also happen in Slovenia, and such a strong and well-trained police force of such an unpredictable lone wolf can neither detect nor prevent its operation. One of the tasks assigned to the Commission of Inquiry was to determine whether the legislative basis for the fight against extremist groups was appropriate. It is interesting that the Government has found that there are no major problems and that Slovenian legislation is entirely appropriate to fight extremism. So, on the basis of such findings by the Government and the fact that the security services have submitted a low level of risk assessment, we rightly ask in Novi Slovenija what and why this commission of inquiry was established. It was created during protests, very intense and also violent, and it was created at a time when some of the images appearing in the media were covered by representatives – or I will tell them directly where SDS Members and members of some extreme groups appeared. And now I will say without embellishment that in New Slovenia we understand this investigative commission, that it was established primarily for the purposes of political accounting. We estimate that the Commission of Inquiry was set up to deal in some way with a political party, in this case the SDS, and to try to prove that there is a link between the largest opposition party and individual extremist groups. This has not been officially established so far and, as I said, what this investigative committee has already found out, has already been identified by the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. So it is a kind of duplication of tasks, which only strengthens us in the belief that the establishment of the commission of inquiry has been motivated, politically motivated, and this motivation has been the discreditation of a political opponent. What underpins this thesis? The fact that everything that has been identified by the Commission of Inquiry so far has already been identified and adopted by consensus by the Commission for the supervision of the intelligence and security services. According to the assessment of the Christian Democrats, the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services is also the appropriate committee to deal with and study such a problem. Nevertheless, I can also see a certain positive thing about this researcher, which is that it has developed a little bit more and highlighted the debate on extremism, and it is important that politics also speaks about extremism, that it is alerted to these pressing problems of society and that, above all, it is said that these phenomena are unacceptable. Of course, in our desire for political accounting, which stems from the creation of this commission of inquiry, we have actually overlooked the greatest danger facing Slovenia, and the greatest danger, after our assessment, lies with Islamic extremist groups. Why am I telling you this? Because of the armed conflict in Syria at this point, many global media reports that many Syrian fighters are also going from European ground to Syrian battlefields, which are going to Syria for some kind of war tourism. There they fight and at some point they return to their homeland and try to mobilize and gather new fighters. The key and fundamental question that we are asked is what will happen to these individuals when the conflict in Syria, which we hope will end as soon as possible and that the negotiations in Geneva, at least as far as Syria is concerned, will be successful, what will happen to those individuals who have apparently gained some combat experience in Syria, but who also have extremely negative and extremist warehouses. The fear that exists is certainly that this nature, these aspirations and these desires would in some way also express and reflect violently in Slovenia. We are therefore convinced that the Commission of Inquiry should pay more attention to these phenomena in the second part as well, to this phenomenon, because, as it appears earlier, this will be a major problem for Slovenia. We wish and hope that, in the future, we will avoid political accounting as much as possible on the Commission of Inquiry, and if the Commission of Inquiry already exists, it will be devoted to dealing with the problems that actually exist and, if you want, we are also looking for certain legislative solutions to prevent these problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u169	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. However, Mrs Maja Dimitrovski wishes to speak on behalf of the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u170	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Today, I would like to point out that the ambition and purpose of the first part of the Commission of Inquiry is to amend the legislation so that the competent authorities can deal effectively with this problem. But what is the situation in this area today is certainly evidenced by the fact that we do not have a definition of extremism, but an effective policy to deal with this problem. Our aim is not to create discomfort and endanger public security, but we must be aware that underestimating or even ignoring this issue can pose a great risk. This phenomenon, unfortunately, doesn't know the limits. There are two very eloquent examples of this: Norway, with a distinguished tradition of a democratic culture with high standards, and Greece, which is in a whirlpool of public financial collapse and great social distress. Since the unfortunate July 22, 2011, who would have imagined that something like this would happen to a Scandinavian country traditionally taking first place in the World Peace Index? On the other side of Europe, extremism has paved its way even to Parliament with all its violent elements. Look, we have two conflicting sexes with different experiences, but with a common point, this is the phenomenon of extremism. The examples show that no one is immune to this social disease, and neither is Slovenia, nor is such a different isolated island. We have also witnessed to political parties, even the Parliamentary, which organised some sort of troika in black uniforms and stations in the stadium, which were notoriously reminded of other times. We also meet individuals and groups who are otherwise undesirable or even forbidden abroad. Unfortunately, we don't see them at all, except perhaps at the event of excellence, such as in the protest of a good year ago, when such hostage groups took on the human uprising. I sincerely hope that I am wrong today and that history will make me lie, but underestimating these social phenomena can potentially cost us dearly. Therefore, it is wise, respected colleagues, to take preventive action.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u171	Thank you very much. As a debater, he's a reported mag. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u172	I am sure that Slovenian society and all of us in this House must be constantly prepared to do so, even in Slovenia, God forbid, there will be an example that will be an exemplar that will remind us of the tragic stories that took place in Norway. Worse than social conditions, there is more chance that such excesses will happen. At such times, we will likely all wonder who is responsible and how and how we can prevent these things. This issue was also constantly raised by the police responsible for Owl and other security services, and we were all told in one voice that these cases simply cannot be prevented and should be leased. Now, whether we accept this fact or not, the fact is that the investigating commission itself will not be able to help. The second problem I mentioned at the end of our position is Islamic extremism. Many foreign intelligence services, I think, in particular, BBC and CNN are paying a lot of attention to this subject, so-called war tourism, what happens when these warriors return from Syria, and how they can radicalise the country and society they live in. In some ways, our society will also have to provide or find answers to such questions. As I said, I would like our or the parliamentary commission of inquiry to pay more attention to this issue than to political accounts, whether there is more left or right extremism in the country.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u173	Thank you very much. The next panellist is Mr Dragan Bosic. Let them prepare Joseph Jerovšek, Michael Prevc, mag. Ivan Vogrin, mag. Majda Potrat, Joseph Horvat and Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u174	Thank you for your word. It's a nice greeting to everyone who's still here! Given the fact that I've been waiting extremely long for this performance, maybe I'll take a little more time. In fact, it is not my intention now to politicise the report that I welcome and the separate opinion. I look at this in terms of what I know is a disease, a diagnosis and something called a second opinion or another opinion. In this second opinion, I also see some good points of view, especially the introductory one. But it's about extremism, and we're always talking about a definition, and we're also talking about zero tolerance, zero tolerance, or intolerance to extremism, and I would like to discuss this recommended definition in a substantive way. I'd like to point out one thing. Here we are talking about extremism, which denotes activities that are "moral, ideological and political contrary to the written laws and unwritten norms of the country which are extremely impatient with others". I don't know what the word "extremely" is looking for here. "Who are impatient with others." Why do we have that word "extremely"? We're talking about not to tolerate something, so to speak, we don't tolerate things that are impatient with others. Then we have a field, defined minimum tolerance, but the maximum is already defined by terrorism. Thus, in the transition of some extremism or fundamentalism, we can list and in terrorism we have the maximum of an area or field defined. This means that it would be absolutely for the word "extremely" to be released below. The second thing I would like to talk about, however, is doubts about the strengthening of extremism in Europe, which has been expressed here. Indeed, I have read Mrs Cecilia Malmström, who is the European Commissioner for Home Affairs, who is talking about strengthening herself. The vice-president responsible for justice, Vivian Reding, also points out. I'd take that as a fact. These 10 measures, which Europe recommends, do not make sense to me either. However, in the case of Greece, I might add what has already been said that less extremism is where people live in prosperity, although Norway, as my colleague earlier said, does not prove it. So these measures make sense because it's a detection of something that's being detected. The next thing I'd like to point out is that there's been a lot of talk about young people, and I agree that not school, kindergarten, Ibuka's development psychologist wouldn't agree with me, I'd say it's too late in kindergarten. So, we're talking about some tolerance in kids, let's say we're joking, we're kidding at the expense of others, and the kids are listening to it, that's O.K. So you're talking some jokes at the expense of the Roma, at the expense of the blacks, I don't know, Jews, because the kids are growing up with it; it says, it's nice to joke about it. A particularly sensitive age area is a secondary school area, which has also been discussed. Look, the system is like looking for talented kids, every child has to be successful in some area. The problem is that the untalented are looking for the talented – and they remain the ones who are beyond that. Then someone offers them an appropriate environment, a friendship. And we're talking about trusting them. Great! I trust them, wonderful, fine! Why don't we give the election rights for 16 years? Do we trust them? They can have a family when they're 15. We trust them there. Let us show them that we trust them to express themselves so that they can express their opinions, opinions that are important to us, that also make life for us. It's, like, a relatively simple thing. Of course, if we want to. Some things I wanted to point out have already been pointed out to my colleagues, but once again, if we have a common intersection, some common interest, and this is the fight against extremism, then certainly this interim report needs to be welcomed and further cooperated, including with various experts, who can also be called by people who think otherwise, which I think is right. Because today, at this moment, the trial begins with young Chechnya, who planted a bomb in Boston along with his brother, who then crossed the border area of extremism and went into terrorism. But to him are the jurors who are chosen, it is said, according to the law in the country where he is tried — he will be tried in Boston. So, in principle, they must not be against the death penalty allowed there. So much for thinking. Continue – clear! And some kind of target. And if we all have zero tolerance or whatever, intolerance to extremism, then I think the solution will be real, even legal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u176	When the Parliamentary Investigation Commission on extremism was proposed by the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, I wondered what the reason was, since investigative commissions are usually set up for very acute, major problems. I agree that any extremism is dangerous, both to the right and to the left, and I always condemn it, but at the same time I welcome many times the derogation from extreme attitudes that lead to unacceptable behaviour. But I still can't figure out where the point was, but I agree with what my colleague Tonin said was probably meant to discredit a political competitor, our client. However, I was prepared to ask myself whether the Members of Positive Slovenia dared to associate with the extreme right-wing group, which you say has neo-Nazi websites, with the Ljubljana mayor at the Stožice Stadium. Looks like they're backing each other up. I'm not gonna say that the Ljubljana mayor is on the far right, but he supports the far left through and through. I was in good faith that you wanted to clear up your founder, the party president, etc. I guess that wasn't the point. When I see the report in front of me, I'm not really surprised anymore. Here are some formulations that are extremely problematic for me. Let's first write left-wing extremism, right-wing extremism, religious extremism, and then move on to the definition of extremism, which is methodologically wrong. But let's just leave it. But left extremism is reported positively in this report. Leftist extremism is directed towards the future. The formation of a new and just society. Look, you'll be able to spot this in the Red Brigade proclamations. Same thesis, same definition, same software design. Since I was now reading on Twitter, there was a link, but I could not catch it, the thesis or someone reports that they are also – now that it is revealed about the Udba – that the Rise was among the co-founders of the Red Brigades, I am concerned by such positive writing by the investigative commission on left extremism. And that there are also forms of left-wing extremism on Slovenian soil. We often find this, in fact, some FDV professors do not hide that they are the founders or at least philosophers of more left-wing, extreme left-wing movements. Finally, last year this Italian professor, the philosophical founder of Red Brigades, Prof. Toni or how, Nani – I cannot remember now – visited Ljubljana. I must say, for me, extreme left-wing extremism is a denial of civil values. What has happened is also the Members of the National Assembly to deny the right to grave. Which he advocated and created only communism and I also think the Red Brigades that Alda Mora's bodies didn't find to put him away forever. Here comes the approval of these things, these extreme leftist ones. For me, the left and right extremes are equivalent. This definition of religious extremism, that — this is already extremism — in some way means politicisation of faith in order to achieve the collective objective of adapting social order to religious values. In thinking like the branches of this report, I am afraid, colleague Dimitrovska, that you will condemn the floor of Knavsa as a religious extremist, because he is actually trying as much as I can understand yesterday when he received recognition from the President of the Republic and his partner – on the other hand, I think, on the other hand, that this religious value of forgiveness, mercy for the murderer, reconciliation would be accepted as a whole in the Slovenian social order. And now someone will say that in these definitions there is also inside that Pat Knaves is a religious extremist. Secondly, I must say that I am concerned that I was the only Member who is on Twitter and also here in the Chamber, then another Member joined me, who I greeted Mr. Resident's gesture when he went to bow down to those who were unjustly killed, innocent villagers in Lajš. But I am terribly concerned that he was not joined by other participants in the memorial event, that he had to leave for 91 years alone with the help of his son and that others persist in scolding. You see? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u177	Mr Jerovšek, back to today's point [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u178	This, I think, is a worrying concern that there is still no willingness to support positive things in society. [[…]] In view of the fact that he views left-wing extremism in this report with such affection, I am not surprised that, if allowed, some of these mass events, sometimes memorials such as Mitja Klavora — I think that the Secretary of the Union of Fighters — in 2012 at the Tisias, all others who have different opinions, have declared himself a beast that crawls around the country and that the ancestors have shown how such a beast should be dealt with, he aimed at mass seas after the end that it must be killed again. [[…]] But I didn't see that in this and a lot of other things. So I was disappointed by the report because it goes and methodologically and purposefully the opposite and actually popularizes certain extremisms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Ms Maja Dimitrovski, on behalf of the applicant.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u180	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Mr Jerovšek, I regret to tell you that this is not an affair and a pursuit of media attention, because we need to be aware of this may harm the fundamental purpose of our parliamentary investigation. See, the coalition partners do not convene any press conferences after each meeting, but we want this investigation to be one of those that will at least change the rightly underestimated public opinion on the insolence of parliamentary investigations. The long-term impact of our work is therefore an improvement, and public security is far more important than the short-term political objectives and publicity. I hope that we have already crossed the rubiks of this knowledge, the phenomenon of extremism goes beyond the limits of the former, current and future mandates, so that our view should not be directed, Mr Jerovšek, into elections, but into human security. Without this awareness, we will be hostages of the daily political relations and we will not achieve the results.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Since I don't see some of the debaters in the hall, it's mag. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u182	Thank you for your word. One teacher's first. A recent survey by PISA found that reading literacy of Slovenian 15-year-olds is very poor. It is, however, determined by the extent to which a person is able to sum it up from the text. When I talk about the definition of left-wing extremism, it begins: "Extremism researchers point out that extreme left-wing extremism advocates the theory of violence, fear, assassinations, kidnapping, violent demonstrations." This also needs to be read, as there is more to left extremism in the following, but if we want to get an integral definition of left-wing extremism, then this must also be taken into account. As defined by the definition of right-wing extremism, it is written: "Right-wing extremism can most generally be described as the denial of the right to alternative ideas, while right-wing extremists stress that their ideas are only correct." What is the context of this right-hand, uniform and non-existent alternative, you can create yourself why I chose this to read again. Otherwise, at first, I'd like to say this. As with that opening quote from Mr Matet, however, I would have thought about one of his concerns when he said that all forms of extremism should be addressed. I agree if they exist. However, I do not think it is acceptable that, for example, when one form of extremism occurs, it should be obscured before that, because in that time frame that we are studying, other extreme forms are not detected or at least in such a form of expenditure. Another thing I'd like to add to the prevention and the education from kindergarten forward; I'd like to turn the matter around differently. I think it's a substrate of all the value systems that grow in man, but a family. What I would add to this is that I would reverse this educational aspect by saying that in society we should promote knowledge of the meaning of humanistic education. We should encourage sociology, because both sociology and humanism help us to civilise, soften and train us for life in society. When awarding the awards of the Public Fund for Cultural Activities at the Ljubljana Castle, my client colleague, or philosopher and sociologist Franci Pivec, cited the world-renowned sociologist Patman, who researched how the democracy of local communities is being shaped. When he researched and eliminated various moments, he finally found that they were the most horizontally connected, which is also said to be the most democratic, those local communities in which cultural activity was of great importance. And, you won't believe it, choir singing! Whatever you look at, because it highlights the importance of each individual and at the same time stresses the importance of the collective. Other local communities, where these cultural values are not highlighted in this way, are more authoritarian. This may be a matter that could be long and widely distributed, but I hope you haven't overheard me. Very dangerous things for the development of society appear to us in some school data. Look, we once celebrated after an extremely high reading culture of at least primary school youth. Now, according to comparisons, our youth spends only 15% of their reading time, while in other Member States 30%, we say twice. What this means for the future – and I can tell you from my many years of teaching experience that parents have at times been disheartened if I have too much to direct young people to reading fiction because they have said that there will be no direct or direct benefit to them. We have to ask ourselves where we want to be as a society. Now for the report. I will not touch the separate opinion, but I will point to something, because with everything my colleague Jelusic has said, I agree that I could not, even with the last part, but she also reminded the police of the statement made by an expert on 150 perceived extremists. Well, in that report, you're going to read a very interesting fact. Between 2005 and 2013, the police, I remember correctly, detected 29 cases of extreme violence. In addition, 79 other crimes, whose apparent motive was also political, racial, ethnic and religious intolerance. So 3 per year on average, if we're on average, and 10 of these. Nothing says a police report on the investigation, about the prosecution, about the charges and about it, but I refer from my laity memory to the fact that if you go on a black chronicle and follow cases of violence, which certainly have signs of extremist activity, that those who have ended up with the founding perpetrator are less than those where it was found. And I'm talking about attacks on same-sex targets, those attacks that have signs of racial violence and so on. So it is also a question of how successful we are in persecuting this criminal practice or condemning it. There's one more thing I'd like to remind you of. When they were at Caffe Open, where it was a violent act, when a trial was brought before a Ljubljana court against the perpetrators, those found, a crowd of young people gathered before the court and sought excuses for these young people, if they had never been punished or anything like that. Where were these perpetrators involved, in which groups were looking for support — in sports cheer groups! And so on. I would like to point out that we had a number of signs that we called after the treatment, after the perception, after the lack of transparency. And, excuse me, I do not agree with Mr Puksic's thesis that there are only people in extremist groups who are socially deprived. This does not excuse them for their extremist actions, because as a boomerang, Mr Pukšič, this matter is returned if we go to justify violent acts in this way. What I'm about to point out in the end is this. When we talk about extremist groups and extremists, the first three groups are listed, I mentioned them, namely, left, right, religious, but the fourth group is a hate speech. If I only remind you of this, but you are not always present in reading and considering the Ombudsman's report, there is an increasing number of speeches in the annual hate speech reports, and the responsibility of the policy to increase hate speech is increasing. Let me just remind you of the warnings we receive from Europe, I mean the ECRI reports, the Council of Europe reports and so on, and the responsibility of politics, you don't want to, it's extraordinary, because an impatient speech – violence is not only physical but also verbal – is a pattern of acceptable behaviour or speech from political discourse to everyday life, where it can then be slowly accompanied by physical violence. However, what we can read about the enemy speech, I think, is also a public debate on this subject that we have had in the National Assembly, which can also be linked to the thought that Dr. Jelusič spoke about, namely, that in all these forms, the question always arises as to what is encouraged by this more unacceptable behaviour: either by warning him, sanctioning him, extermination or oversight. However, I think that it is precisely a change in criminal law and the migration of certain practices from the criminalization of a crime into a crime that may lead to the possibility that such forms of unacceptable behaviour will also be repeatedly achieved by a judicial epilogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Andrej Chuš, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u184	Thank you for your word, Madam President, a nice greeting to all colleagues! Given that many things have already been said at the general level today, I might like to start by focusing on one phenomenon of extremism in recent days. You may have heard about, say, the occurrence of violence or extremism in the case of the Student Organisation of the University of Ljubljana in recent days, namely, amendments to the Act establishing Radio Student, which was adopted at the meeting of the College of the University of Ljubljana, and supporters of this alternative radio were even threatened by gun water. After the publication of the personal data of all members of the student council of the University of Ljubljana, the Student Organisation of the University of Ljubljana, who voted in favour of the amendments to the Act, the supporters of the Radio Student went even so far as to call for the conviction of students with firing water. On Wednesday nights, however, graffiti were also found on the premises of Ljubljana’s colleges and student homes, which threatened certain Members to observe them and that they would be plagued. One of the graffitimen even called on one of the student MPs to commit suicide. The campaign to maintain an independent Radio Student, I repeat, is to be led by initiatives from Metelkova and are also joined by TRS parties, Solidarity and the Initiative for Democratic Socialism. We can rightly ask ourselves why such an example of extremism has not been published in the media, so that everyone will probably be negatively identified. Of course, I hope the law enforcement authorities are too. I would like to say to myself that I would like all cases of extremism to be dealt with equally, even with equally. However, if we are to pursue them successfully in the future, it is necessary, as has been said many times already, to define extremism at all. The definition would probably be needed already because the police and intelligence services for the prosecution of extremists are not sufficient at this time. All institutions of the rule of law must treat extremism equally and equally, and not in accordance with the worldview views of employees in these institutions. The public also deserves an answer to the question whether all institutions, including their political supervisors, are working to keep a low risk assessment in Slovenia. Extremism, we can say, is present in almost everyone or is likely to be present in all countries of the world, I have not read many analyses and surveys, but I have seen on the social network twitter one year ago a report on the emergence of extremism from Germany, which says that left extremism in 2011 in Germany caused 35 percent more violent incidents than right. Just to say, I condemn all kinds, but interestingly, not everything is so uniform. However, as far as the work of the Commission of Inquiry is concerned to determine and assess the functioning of extremist groups, it seems to me that it seemed rather politically motivated and biased. Today, we have serious problems with the phenomenon of extremism in Slovenia. For example, a fine example of this is when the entire state summit in the Colossae sings praises to communism. However, as far as the work of the Commission of Inquiry is concerned, I would like to point out that some of the expert witnesses who participated can be found to have deceived the Commission of Inquiry with the information they provided. Some expert witnesses were also politically motivated. One of the expert witnesses, for example, was Vice-President of the party Zares, and the other is today one of the vice-presidents of the party of Solidarity. If the government of Alenka Bratušek really wanted to limit itself, for example, the phenomenon of extremism in Slovenia and in particular this area, it would probably have come to the National Assembly with some concrete solutions, as Mr Mate said earlier. The only thing I think today is that with such shows – let's say that as an independent public media RTV – appeared this week, it seems to me that the only thing that is being done is that the phenomenon of left-wing extremism in Slovenia is disguised. A fine example of this is that, for example, the creator of this show in 2002 proudly explained how an anarchist from Slovenia attended the Anti-Nato March and Assembly in Prague, and that the journalist Radio Student, who is the only independent media in Slovenia. I won't go any further. Like others, Mr Pukšič has shown some pictures before, such as a red shirt and Osama bin Laden. If someone tells me today that the Public Institute of RTV Slovenia is independent or independent, when we discuss this next time, I will just laugh. Slovenian policy should singlely condemn all phenomena and all forms of extremism, but not that when something happens, we are silent, but when something does not answer, it hits full. And, Your Honor, let us be objective and condemn all kinds and forms of extremism! As for the regime shows in our public office, I'm going to say, "It's only shoes that belong" – or it's preparing – "it's Kopitar."
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Pukšič has the floor next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u186	Thank you very much again. I did not want to take advantage of business options before, so I will now answer my colleague Kurnjek. Well, you know me so well that I don't belong on the left, not on the right, not on Islamic extremism, but on democracy. As a Democrat, if I say that we will use all the resources, of course, I am referring to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Law on the Investigation Commission, the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Investigative Commission, etc. Mr Kurnjek, I hope you understand this, but your intention was to provoke a little. In fact, colleague Dragan Bosic set up some of the elements very well in his debate and I am pleased; in fact, just as the conclusions on the Committee on Security and Intelligence have been adopted. This debate began with the Commission of the Intelligence and Security Service, when we were still in the coalition, regardless of how the opposition and the coalition changed, these conclusions were taken unanimously. Colleague Dimitrovska, that is all we had to do and we would also be accepted unanimously on this investigative committee. That is why I now ask you publicly, in view of your intervention, and I expect you to say without hiding clearly and loudly which political party has created some threesomes and extremist groups. Who was the talk? Who did you have in mind? However, when you spoke about security in Greece and Norway, I am still convinced that security in the countries of the north is significantly greater than in Greece or than it appears in the south. Of course, what happened was catastrophic, but apparently the wolf was a loner — as some or some of such cases describe. This can happen anywhere, unfortunately, but it is important that as much is done on prevention as possible, and then on the treatment of extremist matters. If it has already been decided on the Committee on Security and Intelligence that certain legislation should be amended, it is precisely your government, the government of Alenka Bratušek, with your coalition, with you who support these conclusions today, that has rejected the possibility of amendment and says that there is no need to amend any legislation in any field. Your government has also found that in this area low threats – thank God – and believes that this will remain so, although the actions of some or the actions of those who have power in the hands of governments are obviously not directed in this direction in terms of increasing unemployment, increasing social problems and so on. I did not speak in the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group in terms of justifying extremist groups, activities and so on at the expense of poverty, but said that these groups, as also colleague Dimitrovska spoke before me in relation to Greece, were significantly more exposed, marginalized and placed in some closed circles, because they were unable to care for their existence, for their normal lives, for their economic development, for their family and so on. This was Tuesday evening, and this show also says that when he comes into one such group, he becomes important. And, of course, somehow satisfies those needs so that he can do something. Clearly, the actions of extremist groups are certainly catastrophic later! You know, in that sense, it was my call to this poverty and to the groups at the bottom of society. The fact is, if we are talking about this and about extremism, we need to talk as politically subtlely as we did in the intelligence and security committee. Last but not least, I think that there are five of us members who are on the intelligence and security committee, even on this committee, and as has been said, unfortunately you did not have this intention to do here. I understand that you proposed to this investigator when you were the opposition. You didn't have that effect at the time, of course, on amending legislation. You have been in power for almost a year now, and if we had serious intentions in this area, we would have done much more. That's one. In the end, maybe that's all there is to it. From this report, unfortunately, the main concern that you are referring to around right extremism, as well as after what I mentioned earlier, is not true according to Europol's statistics. In the future, if you want us to take decisions together in the National Assembly, more will have to be done. Unfortunately, you will receive you again, just yours, just a government coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u187	Thank you very much. The word was also wanted by the representative of the Government, Mr. Bossic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! I'll be very brief, maybe I'll just explain something, actually. First of all, I would like to say that this debate today, the first report as such, I am following today's debate with great interest. The Government will also take all the conclusions you will take in this regard, as well as the conclusions of the Commission on the supervision of the intelligence and security services and, of course, all that you will come to below, very carefully into account, and, of course, also on the basis of this in the future, as has been pointed out here, probably come up with certain solutions, suggestions on how to deal with this phenomenon. However, I must certainly say that I do not agree that the competent authorities, as well as the government, as well as the previous governments, are passive as far as this is concerned. I think that all activities are being closely monitored to assess the situation, but this is the phenomenon that we have been facing for the last 15, 20 years, of course it is also a particular challenge for all these bodies that I have mentioned. But certainly, once again, we do not underestimate this. The scope of the legislation has been repeatedly exposed and the Government in this area sees no need for changes and so on. We have also said in our document and at the very meeting of the commission of inquiry that we do not actually see major problems at the moment, as far as criminal law and criminal proceedings are concerned. It is true, too, today that one area of perception of this extremism, these phenomena, the timely and preliminary perception that we will have to deal intensively with, both with the methodology of work and, of course, with any additional formal and organisational approaches. We have also written in this document that we have already discussed the so-called preliminary covert investigation measures, not only in Slovenia, but also in other countries, that other countries have problems with this issue, which I have just mentioned, seeking optimal solutions. We, together with you, together with all the expert bodies, will, of course, also with colleagues from other countries, try to find the best methods, grips and measures to successfully counter all these phenomena. It is also true that in recent years, even in the previous decade, some proposals have been considered inadequate, inadequate and will need to be reconsidered and upgraded. I would certainly like to say – now I am talking about just one part of this problem, this is the repressive part. Very important for my concepts, of course, I think we all agree with this, but all the other measures that must go in the direction of preventing the emergence of conditions for extremism. Here, personally, I think there's still a lot of maneuvering space and a lot of things to do. This has also been discussed today by you, honourable Members and Members, quite a few speeches. There's only so much in my response. In short, the government is not passive as far as that is concerned. Activities, debates, search for solutions, evaluation, analysis are taking place within the professional bodies and we will, as we say, also on the basis of your findings, opinions, conclusions, and will take into account further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Maja Dimitrovsky, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u190	Thank you so much for saying that. First, Mr Pukšič, as well as you, Mr Jerovšek, would be asked to write down my last name, because my last name is Dimitrovski and not Dimitrovska. You've called me twice as Dimitrovska in your debate. I would also like to ask Mrs Potrato, who is with us, to perhaps teach you how my last name is removed. So much for a start. In my debate, I will focus mainly on the essential findings, but of course I will not be able to pass the debate on a separate opinion. On the Commission we proposed the following amendments to the legislation: Article 297 of the Penal Code to be supplemented by incriminating acts committed with discriminatory motives. The Penal Code should also be supplemented by criminal offences where the victim of integrity is injured because of national, religious, racial or other hatred. The law on the protection of public order and peace should also regulate and sanction the international phenomenon of private gatherings or meetings of extremist groups where participants in concerts, symbols, conduct express and disseminate their discriminatory and impatient ideology. In the Law on Police Tasks and Powers, it would indicate, having regard to the Constitutional Court's decision, that additional powers would allow the police to gather information at the so-called early stage – to gather evidence to confirm that extremist groups are preparing possible crimes, including those referred to in Article 297 of the Penal Code. In a law governing the area of public order or in a system-wide law on offences, it should be possible to add the possibility that extremists who have committed multiple offences may immediately pass a fine. The police should keep a special record of this. In the field of public servants legislation, public servants should be prohibited from cooperating with extremist groups, which should be a condition for the conclusion of employment, as well as for the extraordinary cancellation. In the Law on the Financing of Political Parties, the parties should assume financial responsibility for the conduct of their officials and elected members in representative functions. In particular, attention would be paid to preventing the promotion of hatred, violence and intolerance, taking the financial penalty away from the budgetary financing of political parties and depriving the resources of preventing hatred, violence and intolerance. In the Media Act, the responsibility of the media or responsible editors for comments on articles or contributions that promote or promote hatred, violence and intolerance should be extended. At the same time, the competent inspection services should be empowered to take appropriate action or to impose penalties or fines. We have given special attention to the so-called hate speech in the Commission, because hate speech is one of the most powerful tools of discrimination, and it is based on the belief that some people are less valuable because they belong to a particular group because of individual circumstances. The main objective of the hate speech is to humanize those against whom it is directed, and their aim is to humiliate, intimidate or incite violence or to engage in illegal acts against a particular person or group. In Slovenia, the problem of hate speech is also related to the rhetoric of some political officials and we are all witnesses to it. One more word about right-wing extremism. As stated in the report, right-wing extremism can most generally be described as the denial of the right to alternative ideas, while right-wing extremists stress that their ideas are only correct. Social values understand through the prism we-they. The fundamental aspects of right extremism are populism and excessive devotion, loyalty to one group, conspiracy theory or secret plans of the so-called enemy of society. The rhetoric of right-wing extremists is generally directed at a selected group of people who become guilty of all irregularities and injustices in society. In the past, they performed with various emblems — swastika, shaved heads, and black garments. Now their presentation and communication are much more sophisticated. They gather in certain places, organize concerts, which are not public, of course, and have contact with related organisations abroad. The principles of right-wing extremism do not present a threat to national security at this time, but it can change if it receives more active support from political actors. On the left, extremist researchers say that extreme left extremism advocates the theory of violence, fear, assassinations, kidnapping, violent demonstrations. Left extremists are convinced that reform of the system or revolution is necessary to create a just society. There are extremist leftist groups that have radical political positions, but they do not usually choose violence or call for violence for their political strategy. In the vast majority of cases, they act nonviolently, for example, against the system by retreating into a ghetto where they try to practice ideal social relations. With us left-wing anarchists do not pose any threat to constitutional regulation. We can say about religious Islamic extremism that its violence and the call to violence are equivalent to any other extremism. Religious extremism in some way means politicising faith to achieve a collective goal, subjugating the entire social order to religious values. The latter leads to a constant religious struggle to enforce religious commands. In this respect, Islamic fundamentalism, which poses a growing threat, is particularly problematic with the European Union. In Slovenia, based on the assessment of the security authorities, Islamic extremism is not so explicit as it is not detected by organised groups, but there are, of course, individuals who may pose a security risk. The most difficult task of this investigative commission was the definition of extremism and is an important part of the essential findings, as our legal order is unknown. Finally, let me touch on a separate opinion, as I mentioned in the introduction. First, I can say that the report was adopted after several days of lengthy and very thorough debate. We have completed the draft report extensively, as four pages of the minutes of this meeting also bear witness, yet today we are listening to how the opinion of the opposition has not been taken into account. I don't think that's true. Despite the fact that the report was not unanimously adopted, it should be pointed out that the essential findings are based on the beliefs of experts, on established foreign practices and on the proposals of the Security Intelligence Authorities. A key part of the report was contributed by Prof. Peter Umek, a recognised specialist in criminal psychology and a forensic expert. In view of the political sensitivity of the subject matter, the Commission has limited itself to the findings and proposals. We have avoided content that could be attributed to political motivation, but today we are receiving unjustifiable evidence of political bias. On the basis of the above facts, it is therefore possible to express both surprise and regret that the members of the opposition commission decided to oppose and draw up a separate opinion on the interim report, thus rejecting all the collected facts which could not be attributed to political interpretations. If I simplify, they have discredited the state authorities, the government and even the experts who have been dealing with this issue and have been monitoring it for a long time. In order to avoid political bias, the Commission has opted for an unusual practice of publishing material, but this is not enough for opposition members who have opted for a separate opinion, thus failing to discredit the state authorities, the government and the profession, as I have already stated. I have tried to involve all the members of the Commission in the preparation of the report, but despite my call, they have decided not to comment, but to have a large-scale separate opinion, which does not contain proposals to amend the legislation, which is the main purpose of this Commission. The impression is that they just want to challenge the parliamentary investigation instead of working against extremism. The fact that two of the members of the Commission signed under a separate opinion were not regularly present at the meetings of the Commission and actively participated in the course of the parliamentary investigation and examined all the material collected by the Commission is worth mentioning. While themselves, despite calls, no witnesses have proposed, they feel qualified to discredit professional expert witnesses and to acknowledge their bias and silence the fact that they are experts from different universities and colleges who have been scientifically engaged in extremists for a long time. Among the witnesses are two former heads of security intelligence, under various governments. A separate opinion shows that the three members of the Commission did not understand or would not understand the status or role of expert witnesses, although some of them were also members of the investigative commissions in the past. The expert witnesses presented only their expert expert expert opinion to the Commission, which the Commission may or may not use. That is why I did not allow any controversy about the expertise of the opinions given, which, despite the warnings, occurred, particularly in the testimony of Dr Damjan Mandelac. As absurd, the Commission rejected the proposals made by opposition members to bring a criminal complaint against some witnesses. In its findings, the Commission did not rely on all the testimony of the expert witnesses; part of the testimony of one of the witnesses was denied by the State authority, but it is contained in the report, since the testimony is an integral part of the report, at the request of the opposition Members. The authors of this separate opinion did not want to identify us on purpose, and they blame us flatly and unjustifiably on the bias of the report. In spite of the clear and clear provisions of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation in the Commission, the first separate opinion or the President of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services has consistently challenged the competence and justification of the investigation and referred to the recommendations adopted by the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. Let me add that, as President of the Intelligence and Security Commission, the Commission of Inquiry initially did not wish to provide the necessary material, but even a threat was needed, requiring that the other parliamentary commission withdraw certain materials, which is bizarre. However, a precondition for this act was obtained for the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The first to object to the investigation has repeatedly violated the provisions of the Law and Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, since, without the decision of the Commission and the conduct of the President conducting the investigation, he has abused the role of Vice-President and requested certain actions on behalf of the Commission from the State authorities, and has also commented in public on the draft interim report, although the Commission has not yet considered it to the end. In a separate opinion, the three members of the Commission also take note of proposals they have never made or discussed. These are reports of attacks on constitutional rights under the concept of elements of international security, the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act, which is intended to affect the information privacy of citizens. It is also apparent that the Commission criminalises patriotism and patriotism and that it is equivalent to national socialism. In a separate opinion, the three members of the Commission go even so far as to identify, despite the fact that the subject of the investigation is clear and that it is only the first part of the investigation, the attack on the National Assembly building at the 2010 student demonstrations. The latter are attributed to an organised group of left-wing extremists, which are also linked to violent protests at the end of 2012 and at the beginning of 2013 in Ljubljana and Maribor. All of this is linked by the co-organizers of Dr. Danil Türk's presidential campaign and spiced up with the details of Nazi Germany. All of this, based on alleged evidence, was held by the Committee on Internal Policy in 2010, led by their party colleague Dr. Vinko Gorenak, Internal Minister at the time of the People's Uprising. Anonymous persons have also become unwarranted evidence if only the content of the law; it is a mixture of apples and pears and an obvious deviation from the subject matter of the investigation. It is quite amazing that the three members of the Commission were able to include the text of the Resolution on the European consciousness of totalitarianism in a separate opinion. Condemning communism and power in the previous country, reading extremism, which paradoxically makes it very difficult to justify, compare with fascism and national socialism, and in such justifications they were able to include the Union of Fighters, individual journalists, players and even culturers. Therefore, the separate opinions also contain an iron repertoire of the political agendas of parliamentary parties belonging to them, members of a commission which is not involved in any parliamentary inquiry, but it is current, as the National Assembly has been dealing with a number of requests at urgent meetings of working bodies and extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly for some time. On the basis of the material collected so far in the investigation of the interim report, the Commission could not politically balance some of the things that some members of the opposition wanted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Madam President. If I made a mistake, I'd like to apologize to my colleague, but I have a magnetogram ahead of me. You mentioned that I mentioned you twice. I only mentioned you once. Now I will not be for others, but in this magnetogram – we must look at it with sound – says that I did the right thing: "When the branches of this report, thinking, I fear, colleague Dimitrovski, that you will condemn the floor of Knaves as a religious extremist". It's written that way, maybe she's a recorder, but if I'm wrong, in any case, I apologize in this case if I'm wrong, because I've been avoiding the mention of the name, because I'm deaf and I can make a mistake – not because I don't know the vocabulary or the tendency. [[…]] There is no problem for me to apologize, but please check, because you probably thought of another Member who is, but also not maliciously. You know, it could happen to me, by the way, because I don't read my texts, I don't read my head and I debate, I think, I do. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u193	Procedural proposal, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u194	But I have to say that you mentioned me now, but I wanted to be more supportive of my debate, whether we could replicate or think about what I said. But you didn't do it because you only read the pre-prepared texts. I think I have given relevant starting points, which should also be dealt with by this Commission of Inquiry, but I fear for the future of this Commission if it does not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u195	Thank you very much. This was more a replica than a procedural proposal. Mr. Mate, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I am very pleased that we still have the President of the National Assembly here, in fact, I am appalled that a Member or a more precise Member has allowed herself to use texts that still carry a level of confidentiality in the Commission. It is only open to the public and only a report. That's amazing! And I want to know what the National Assembly will do about this in the future. So much for a little bit about it. Otherwise, I would like to touch the content because the content is important, not trying to account in such or other ways, especially with me, directly or indirectly. Some of the debates seemed extremely good to me and they went in the right direction, from a number of coalition Members, and they drew attention to those problems that I had warned myself about in the first place. As regards the report itself and the dissecting of the report to disability. I think it would take two hours to say everything that is wrong or what I disagree with and why I disagree and justifiably justify it, so it makes no sense for me to explain it long and wide. But I'm surprised someone allows themselves to borrow a professor's lecture from the university and not quote it in the report itself. I hope that this gentleman will not initiate any proceedings, that we have taken away his copyright, because this has been repeatedly told also who this author is, but to serious content. First of all, it has been said here that the definition is crucial to the fight against extremism. That's not true. The countries most successful in fighting extremism in the European Union do not have the definition of extremism in their legislation. It's good, it'd be good to have it, but that's not the key. Unfortunately, that's not the key. If we think that by definition we will solve this problem, of course we are very wrong. Of course, I agree with the thesis put here, whether we trust young people, whether we hope to release election rights for 16 years. Yeah, I hope so! No matter what you tell me, what your opinion will be, I will personally hope to press the button to let the electoral threshold go or the electoral right go down for a shorter period. I've been thinking that way for so long, and I strongly support this idea that's been said here. On the other hand, I am pleased to hear from the Government in the debate. Although I am also a little sad, especially because we had to wait so long that the matter would move. At first, in various functions on the Commission, we met with a representative of the Government, where we discussed that some authorities, especially the police, had already tried to do something in 2011. This has already been rejected within the Internal Ministry system, but so is Owl, where the current Secretary of State has been employed and knows about these issues and problems. It is absurd in some way that we are trying to help the Government in some way, with suggestions, with constructive proposals. The discussions that we had on the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission went solely in this direction to move matters from a dead point. And now we needed someone else to make the same proposals, perhaps even a little more poorer – in my personal opinion, to which I have the right and we cannot deny it, so that we can move the matter. If the Government now, after all, has found enough strength to start taking this matter seriously and to move it, I will be very happy and happy if the Government takes into account today's debate: action in the field of prevention, action in the field of education, education and thus help to help reduce the phenomenon of extremism. But I was surprised to see that I went again today to see all the documentation of a confidential nature because I wondered how many Members were interested in this subject and read it because everyone could read it, and, of course, I was surprised to hear just from that Member who read that dossier saying that we only had right extremism. That's not true. It is written on all documents bearing degrees of secrecy, and it is very clear there: the current greatest threat to our security in the country is Islamic extremism. We all know that. It is known from the reports and Slovenia is not immune and I myself gave this very brief statement after one of the Commission's meetings recently that individuals have also left Slovenia for the Syrian battlefields and have also returned from there. Unfortunately, we can't talk about this anymore, unfortunately we can't talk about numbers, but that's a fact. And, of course, colleague Tonin has very much stressed everything that is necessary in this regard. Once again, I urge the Government to take this seriously and that the report we have now has caused something: we have somehow divided ourselves on two sides; and that is not good.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr Jerko Čehovin has the following word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u198	"Last, but not least." First of all, I must say that I have finally seen this happen, that the representative of the Government today has a formal say that he is happy to listen and that he will try to place these suggestions, debates and proposals where it is for this city. I am also pleased that the SDS representative, Dragutin Mate, does not separate between this government and the previous government, because neither one of them did what we expected them to do, so neither did the Ministry of the Interior. I hope that, after today's debate, however it may have been heard, it was as it was, only to survive the problem of extremism and the risks involved, to take risks more seriously in this country and to adopt appropriate legislation to reduce these risks. Today, by chance, they are the Prime Minister of the Government and the Secretary of Defense in Munich. If we remember 76 years ago, there was a peace conference that was marked "chamberlain policy" in history, which is a policy of putting your head in the sand. In fact, even there they mocked at the beginning the threats of the Blackbeards or Brownsmen and the threats of Czechoslovakia and so on, but at the end of the year this actually happened, first the annexation of Austria and then the seizure of the Sudets and then indirectly the whole Czech Republic. Europe did not react. I don't mean to be parallel to this right now, but I just want to say that we must never, ever, at least in responsible politics, underestimate the potential danger. Today it is true in Slovenia that the risks are low, but this "low" can change very quickly. The Norwegians, too, thought that nothing could happen to them, given the country which is characterised by a high degree of tolerance, although lately it is no longer the same as it used to be, and a long-standing democratic tradition. And it happened. It is true that someone said that a lone wolf happened, but then the investigations showed that he was not only a lone wolf, but that he also had certain links with extreme groups across Europe, as well as with us; at least some contacts indicate that some of us are very receptive in terms of some contacts. In short, all I want to say is that responsible policy should not afford to debate in style: because this is what you cooked, you demanded. I think that this commission of inquiry – and now I will answer Mr Jerovšk, or he is not here – has not arisen as some sort of speculation or a problem with any parliamentary party. But it was created, and I can confirm this, as a response to the fact that 7 months from the previous government, the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services did not receive the required report on extreme groups in Slovenia. Since March, when this request was transmitted, we have waited until October 2nd for the report to be received, and this report, which was subsequently found, has essentially been prepared. It was not the same report as was given by the Slovenian Intelligence Agency to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. These are no longer sporadic, side - or - side - to - side matters. Why this happened, I don't know. It is true, however, that there was a reaction at the time, that Mr Mate also correctly stated, because we were then in the opposition, because we had no other leverage to propose the establishment of this investigative commission, which today gave the first part of the conclusions. It's all true, not that we want to stigmatize anyone in any way. I believe that this speech has been enough today, but I think that, in a somewhat controversial tone and so on, I hope, and I am convinced that the National Assembly still has the conviction and awareness that extremism, and in particular its extreme forms, is dangerous to democracy, is dangerous to social order, is dangerous to constitutional regulation. I think we need to draw some consistency from this, in particular in these proposals that have been tabled. On the other hand, I say once again: there is a real risk assessment in Slovenia at this point, a valid assessment, a low; but not the authorities nor the politicians should underestimate individual phenomena, but in particular where a little more organised matters are being organised. Do not think that these troubled individuals are, that they are just some population that is handicapped or someone who may be frustrated or lacking knowledge and some other problems, which of course is not difficult in view of the current sociopolitical situation, the economic situation in the country. However, it is necessary to know that they are managed by people who are damn sophisticated, even in the use of the most modern means of concealment, communication, concealment and know how to use the most modern technologies. It's dangerous if this thing connects with politics. At this point, I do not want this to happen in this country, so it is better that we all act together preventively and that we actually prepare legislative corrections in this sense to minimise these risks. As for the participation of working bodies – that is how it is now. Our working bodies, that is, the committees, the commissions, have no possibility in our Rules of Procedure to propose laws. They can give initiatives, laws can be proposed by the government, they can be proposed by Members, they can be a group of Members, but they can also take the form of a commission as we set it up. From this point of view, it seems to me that some work has also been done, that we have also become aware of ourselves in a broader sense, and I hope that the biggest problem is that we will also be aware of this by those who manage the media and those who raise our children. One more time. Here, however, I agree with all those who agree that education begins practically from kindergarten onward and goes through all other higher levels of education. And it's not the guy who's kind of getting out in the sense that he's threatening his own country, but he's the guy who can defend this country and be proud of it. I hope – nevertheless – that we will confirm this report and that some smart results will follow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Now I'm asking if a representative of the government would like a word. On behalf of the proposer? [[No, no, ……]] So, I'm closing the debate. However, there is still time to be allocated under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking if you wish to discuss it. Opening login option. Five other panellists have been reported. As the first Mr Branko Kurnjek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u200	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President! Actually, I'm going to be very short. A few thoughts. I think that the people of Slovenia simply do not deserve extremists and extremist movements, or in other words: extremists are simply not worth us. In my naivety and also in the sense that I live my life, I would like no violence to occur. Unfortunately, however, this exists, and because of this and also as a result of the fact that it exists, an investigative commission has also been set up. Like the predecessors before me, I was delighted to hear the government’s position that they had not only heard us but also listened. Which means that, I hope, from what we have learned on the Commission of Inquiry, we will also find and write in the interim report, we will also be able to make a change in the legislation in order to minimise any potential risks that exist, even though they are low, to an almost zero or zero degree, to which we all tend together. In the course of the investigation, I would personally like to see if any of us have taken a step too far to go back and actually complete this work for which we are called. I must say that I am pleased to work on this investigative committee, and I hope that my contribution, as well as the contribution of all other colleagues in this direction, will be to survive only something good from this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Dr. Jelusic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u202	Thank you so much for saying that. I, too, would like to touch on some of the comments or remarks that I have to make in this debate today, which, however, must also be said on the other side. First of all, I would like to draw attention to one of the impressions we are making in today's debate, as if it were a prestigious dispute between the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission and the Commission to Investigate extremist groups in Slovenia. It seems to me that we are dealing with which of these two committees was more important in their conclusions and whose conclusions will be taken into account, and therefore the other Commission would not be required at all. I would like to point out that the two commissions differ in their competences, including in their composition, even in the role of positions and opposition and in their composition, in the sense that we were not entirely members of the Investigative Commission and were not members of the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission. It is said that some could not have known all the details that the KNOVS had reached, and we could not yet see the full report on its work, except of course certain decisions which were public. I appeal that neither in this case nor in any future would it be right to have unnecessary prestigious disputes, as I say, but it would be better for both commissions, and for any other committee in the National Assembly to work in common faith that our common interest is persecution and, in particular, regulating the issue of the persecution of extremism. The second point I would like to draw attention to is some special ejaculation of certain colleagues who participated in the debate, which was the issue of the file, the Coalition of Hatred, as if this broadcast was due to the functioning of this commission of inquiry. And the criticisms directed at the broadcast were, in fact, trying to attribute the work of this commission, or even at the conclusion of this commission, or the conclusions of the broadcast were attributed to this investigative commission. I would also like to point out here that we have others, including those who are members of this investigative commission, what to say about the broadcast in question, but certainly not in this place, because we are here discussing the interim report of the investigative commission and not some broadcast on RTV Slovenia. Thirdly, colleague Čehovin has already warned that we have some important documents of the Government in the National Assembly, which some have been treated as documents of the Government, and some have been sent to the Government but have not been accepted by the Government, but are still existing official material and we have also received it as the National Assembly or as an investigative commission. I appeal to those who are still here today or to all others, of course, to read, read and see that Owl has done an extraordinary analysis in 2012 of all extremist groups in the field of Slovenia. I would also point to Breivik and his position – one of our colleagues claimed that he was a lone wolf, I would point out that he was a member of Blood and Honor, but he was so radical that he was expelled from Blood and Honor. It is important to ask what happens to those extremists who are too extremist even for extremist groups. But maybe Breivik, if we take him as a symbol of some extreme terrorist act, is actually due to the loss of that protection in the extreme group he was once in. And last but not least, we did not claim in the commission of inquiry that the definition is the most crucial thing of our work, but we felt that the definition was actually an agreement on our common understanding and description of all the extremes that need to be observed, recognized and persecuted if necessary. This was our call for definition, and so we also understood all the criticisms or warnings that came from the government that we do not have the definition of extremism and that [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Look, the holocaust exhibition here in the lobby is ordered for such a debate. Today, we put some words in our mouths that have not been discussed at all. Otherwise, there are no more thunderbolts who have gone home, but here they tell us – I don't know, Jerovšek says Pater Knaves and so on. He's using the name of the floor, which I don't even know about, and I know him very well, because we worked so hard in Goriška, and so on. Look, left, right extremism or Islamism, it doesn't matter; it's all bad. And when we get hit in the street by cars, we get hit with burners, it won't matter who it is – so let's talk about prevention, about what colleague Maja Potrate already said, education, education. See, as long as primary schools organize paint ball to dress up kids in uniform, they go into the woods and shoot their classmates. What are we to one person? What kind of school principals are there? Let's stop it! It is necessary to get the right legislation so that no one will ever say that they could not act because there is no legislation; but after today's interview, I can see that it will be difficult. Do you know how hard it is for us to have adopted Wilfan's law that those disruptors can't threaten those who go with good intentions at sports events?Oh, my God! And here again, it turns out we're like this and we're different, like the Red Brigades are ours, and yours are the nation, and I don't know what. That's not what this is about! That's not how we discuss it. It's extremism, and it will, it can't be eradicated. 25 million people are unemployed in Europe. Look at the extremism in Greece, look in Hungary, see the attempts to establish some paramilitary units, dress up in uniforms and so on. These are the dangers! These are dangers, and we must prevent and step together; no matter, left, right, whatever. When we talk about education, let us mention the Church. It plays an important role in raising parents so that the first grade children will not come to school with a bag with a large head drawn on it. You have to work with people. I'm not a member of any of these committees, so I can't interfere with the details, but I think it's the right way. We can't close our eyes and talk about things openly. We have experts, sociologists, psychologists and so on to determine exactly what the temperature in society is due to the crisis, unemployment, as much as it is in the middle of everything else, not to mention addictions and the like. They're all trends in Europe, they're coming to Slovenia, they're here. Therefore, we need to train our law enforcement authorities, the police and everything, not to mention who everyone will have the legal basis to act. And let us unite forces, at least in this case, if we are constantly on our shores. For me, tonight's debate was useful, and I'm sorry that we're here on 12, 13, and the press is going to mess up how and what -- at least half of us should be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u205	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u206	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. First, with regard to the government's opinion and how we can find a common language. I see one way, too, that the Government is increasingly following the reports of the Ombudsman, where some of the problems we have discussed are perceived, including initiatives to change legislation, and in this direction we should go. If they do the same, it will only be a step closer to the goal, to the world and to society without violence. Whatever we look at extremist groups, there's always violence in the center. We have a definition of violence in our legislation in different places, and it concerns not only physical violence, but also verbal violence and other things. As a Member, I have never been to the Commission for the Control of Security and Intelligence Services or to any of the Commissions of Inquiry, but I do not want to minimize the work of the Commission of Inquiry for this very reason. I'm worried about something. Look! If they come to an investigative committee of witnesses who are recognized experts, we do not have the right to take their expertise to the extent that they are not politically compatible with our political beliefs. Here we are showing our misunderstandings and also our views that promote this intolerance. For freedom of political association is one of the freedoms of association. Persisting with one’s own is very dangerous if we view these things this way. I myself witnessed the treatment of demonstrations or those events in front of parliament when students and students and all the others who were present threw the dice into parliament. I will not discuss how the debate was going on at the time and how some demonized the left, without solid evidence – where they got the films, but another story! But anything is possible. As a private person, I also have my position on demonstrations in Maribor, on demonstrations in Ljubljana, on police receptions in Maribor and on police receptions in Ljubljana, and on the fact that there was no visible organization that we saw on television. Well, it seems to me the most important thing is that we develop the ability to detect unacceptable behavior in society and not to put our heads in the sand. Because I think it's very important that we acknowledge that this kind of thing happens in society, it's between us, but the question is, do we all know about it? I certainly don't know what's said and done online, because I don't watch some things online. Therefore, it does not mean that I am not concerned, and I think that parents can do the most for their children by reminding them that they must be very careful when using the Internet. Just for the end of this definition. Nobody claimed that the definition was crucial, but the definition is important for this, I think, to find the smallest common denominator to name what we are studying. This is important, and the definition of extremism is important from my point of view and parliamentary practice that my young fellow Member will not consider feminism or feminist extremists. If we know what extremism is, then we will be protected against any group that thinks differently about the world and society than the person who denotes it being marked with such a label that discourages any better understanding in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mr. Dragutin Mate has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I would also like to add something to my discussions so far. In fact, it is possible to get a feeling, as one of the debates mentioned, that it was a prestigious struggle, who did something and who did not. This is not the case; it is the fact that some work has begun and has been completed, and those who have received clear conclusions have not done anything in this area in more than seven months. This is a problem and I am pleased today that the representative of the Government has said that after our current debate they will begin to take this seriously. And if the work of the commission of inquiry has helped, I am happy; I am sincerely glad, regardless of all the evidence I have heard here and listened to on the committee. But I really hope it moves. I deeply agree with what Mr Brulc has said; let's stop arguing, let's stop doing what Mrs Potata said – insisting on our own can be dangerous. I am sorry that you have never been to our meeting, which you can come to even if you are not members, and you will see who insists on what is right and how it is concluded that some parts of the report should not even be discussed. He can't even discuss it! This is how the conclusions were adopted on all sides. And that's wrong. That's wrong. That is why I stressed how the work was done on the Intelligence Supervisory Commission not because I am the President, I did not start with this topic. She was led by the President, led by the Vice-President in her absence, led the debate by the new President, and only then came my turn. It's not a prestigious level between me and someone. This is about things moving in this area, moving in the right direction and doing what we really have to do. And one more thing! No one was obstructing access to the data. All classified information in the National Assembly shall be made available to all Members every day. Every day. No more demands! It is true, however, that some Members knew that there were reports from a service that were sent somewhere as material proposals. And the others, we didn't know that. I wonder when this service will find out how some Members might have known that, but others did not, because we did not receive such official reports. And one more thing! It was said that we had problems with the 2012 report by the Government. That's right. I have personally warned in closed sessions that this is not acceptable and that it is not okay, but it is also true that last year, a year ago, when we were discussing the establishment of an investigative commission just as in your speech, you can look at the magnetogram, once again warned that the government did not report in time. But look at him, you piece of shit! Nor did this government report in due time. It took her three months to do what was requested by the commission of inquiry within 30 days. And Madam President had to write two letters, two letters that the Government had welcomed us with a document! Her government, her party president or, yes, the party's president, I can say so, I hope that no one will be too offended if I use this term. I think the rush we had at the end of the report was unnecessary. We sat every day, only that the report was at this meeting, it was crucial, it was not a key content and it was not a key quality. This was crucial and I cannot get rid of this feeling, my respectable colleague and colleague. Some of today's discussions have shown that it would be good for colleagues who can say a lot, who have ideas that say what is needed to unite us. At this point, unfortunately, we have achieved the unification of positions in last year, in the middle of the year, of all political parties, and unfortunately, the principle of work that we had on this committee has led us to almost once again on different sides. No need at all! We all condemn extremism, we all don't want a society where we have extremism. And one more thing. How did the Norwegian company react to the Breivik event? By adopting a political consensus and not amending any legislation, they have adopted conclusions on the need to raise children in schools.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u209	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. No amendments to the proposal were tabled. The meeting will decide on the essential findings of the Commission of Inquiry and on the proposal for a decision in accordance with the meeting's timetable on Tuesday, 4 February 2014, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I am adjourning the 21st meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed on Tuesday, 4 February 2014 at 9 a.m. I welcome everyone, I want a happy journey and a good night.
