ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We begin with the 23rd meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Mrs Irena Tavčar, Mrs Mateja Pučnik and Mr Andrej Cuz. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 13. At the end of the day, that's a second defensive proposal for a basic stay in the framework of a regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 5,000 voters and voters. With regard to this proposal, the Infrastructure and Space Committee proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Sam Bevk, to further explain the proposal for a decision. Here you go, Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! At its 15th meeting, on 12 March 2014, the Committee on Infrastructure and Space considered the draft basic residence law submitted to the National Assembly by a group of electorates and voters. No amendments were tabled within the deadline. The representative of the applicant for the supplementary explanation did not provide any information. Representative of the Government, State Secretary, Ministry of Infrastructure and Space Mag. Bojan Babič said in his presentation of the written opinion to the Government that the Government does not support the proposed law. The proposed law provides that non-payers or debtors of public undertakings may repay their debts by voluntary work, which is contrary to the applicable legislation governing contractual relations with public service providers and the rules governing recovery. In a presentation of a written legal opinion, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, Nataša Voršič, said that the proposed law consisted of two parts, which under the general title of the Basic Stay governs two different substances, i.e. the payment of personal debt to public companies with voluntary work and the right to organic food production. Such regulation is legally controversial in their view, since, in addition to the requirement that the law should constitute a substantively linked and rounded whole, it raises the question of the appropriate designation of the competent ministry. In addition, it noted that the proposed law was inconsistent with the rules and guidelines for the standardisation of legal rules and, as such, was not appropriate for the enforcement of the law. The President of the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, Jernej Verbic, said that the Commission does not support the bill. In Slovenia, many agricultural land is owned by the state, which is not processed and leased, which under certain conditions would make sense to offer to interested processors, but in their view it would not be free of charge, since this would be uneconomic and contrary to the legislation in force. On the basis of the opinions submitted by the Government, the Law and Legal Service and the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, it was proposed that the Committee take a decision that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration. Without discussion, the Committee adopted a decision: The proposal for a basic residence law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to the representative of the drafters of the Jaki Bitenc bill for the introduction of the position on the proposal of the parent working body. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u4	Hello! In Slovenia, 392 thousand people were excluded from poverty risk or social exclusion in 2012. Only a good 13% of households come through the month without problems. The number of people with problems is steadily increasing. In Slovenia, many unprocessed agricultural land is owned by the country. So much so that each Slovenian household could process about 500 square metres of large agricultural land. Therefore, the People's Initiative tabled a proposal for a basic residence law that would allow persons below the poverty threshold and all interested parties to process these unprocessed agricultural land free of charge and thereby reduce their material threat. We have also proposed that debt to public companies can be paid by work, since public companies are responsible for performing works that benefit the public. And what happened? The Human Initiative was given a basket by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and Parliament. That the law is not nominally flawless and that it imposes the right of citizens to corporate rights. It's a farce. Since when do companies have constitutional rights that destroy civil and human rights? For example, to an apartment, a decent life and so on. The links between politics and the economy are professionally called fascism. So do we live in a fascist country? Right at the beginning of our constitution says that the authority in the Republic of Slovenia has a people. Of course that's not true. If the government had a people in Slovenia, it would be completely different and such a law in the people's initiative would not have to be written down because it would have already been regulated. It's not like that. The government doesn't care about that law. Why? Apparently because she doesn't care about the citizens. But who is this government anyway? In fact, it should be called a different body, since the ruler of the country is a people after the constitution, and the so - called government is merely a doer of the will of the people. This should be the case if the legislation was in line with the Constitution and it was not harmonised. Because the Constitution is not aligned with itself, since the third article, which speaks of the authority of the people, has virtually nothing in common with the rest of the articles. Is our Constitution, then, nominally perfect? Not at all. Far from it. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is full of contradictions, yet Parliament has accepted it. Someone will say that the Constitution is over 20 years old and they didn't know what nomotechnics were. Let's take another case. In a bad year, the so-called Government of the Republic of Slovenia has written a proposal for a real estate law, which, out of the citizens for nothing, would want a huge sum of money, which the so-called Government of the Republic of Slovenia would soon have to pay, as it borrows it from international bankers to pay public officials. The so-called government is therefore only interested and only state officials, and we have remained for the so-called government of an apparently lower rank. Soon she will want to insert plastic numbers in our ears like cattle or worse — microchips. And the preparation of this robbery proposal, which was written by the so-called government and rejected by the Constitutional Court as being unconstitutional, so to speak, nomotechnically inappropriate, has cost taxpayers 20 million euros to borrow from Rothschild's bankers, whom the so-called government then seeks to force on the poorer and poorer citizens. The preparation of the draft basic residence law has cost taxpayers exactly zero euros. And here the human initiative sees the main cause of the rejection of the law by the so-called government. This is used to throwing money through a window, sorry, in the pockets of various civil servants and their relatives or friends. It's called corruption. Slovenia has been proven a world recorder in this area. Our proposal for a law is obviously too corrupt for the taste of our policy. In the human initiative, we consider the rejection of our proposal to be a serious mistake. It's not a threat, it's a warning. It's too late to ring the bell. "Hemp Healthy, Trust Nature" is my slogan. Thank you for listening and goodbye.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to introduce my position on the proposal of the parent working body. The position will be presented by the Magi. Bojan Babič, State Secretary, Ministry of Infrastructure and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. The bill states that the law is the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space. In our opinion, given the content of the proposal, I would refer to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs as it regulates the resolution of social distress due to the inability to pay to public companies. But the proposed regulation would interfere with the constitutionally protected right to property and free economic initiative. According to the bill, the non-payers or debtors of public undertakings should repay their debt to public companies by voluntary work. We believe that such regulation would be contrary in particular to the rules governing contractual relations with public service providers and the rules governing recovery. The proposed concept of volunteer work is completely contrary to the concept of volunteering, which is regulated by the Voluntary Act. It also raises the question of the competence of debtors to carry out their work in public companies, for example in electricity companies. In the work relating to the free processing of state land for its own purposes, the proposal is contrary to the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests and the Law on Agricultural Lands. For these reasons, therefore, the Government does not support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, the New Slovenia Group, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u8	Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! In New Slovenia, we are aware that today’s capital predominance is becoming increasingly dependent on the interests of large corporations and financial markets, which are often pushed to the brink of existence. Every day we face financial distress from individuals who endanger their dignity, despite the fact that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides all citizens and citizens with basic living conditions. Members and Members of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats are convinced that the purpose of the bill is to provide a man with decent living conditions for all citizens, but the bill does not have sufficient legal basis because it is substantively incomplete and inconsistent with the Slovenian legal order. We agree that the increasingly deteriorating economic situation and the related material position of individuals dictates an in-depth search for solutions in this area. However, it would make sense that citizens who are truly unable to meet their financial obligations under the payment of services to public undertakings could make some replacement, which cannot be compared with the legal definition of voluntary work. It should also explicitly lay down the conditions that individuals should meet for such work, the social status of the non-payer, real feasibility and compatibility with the provision of municipal goods and services in the context of economic public services or otherwise. The system should also regulate the area of free rent of state-owned agricultural land managed and operated by the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia and land owned by municipalities for organic self-sustaining gardening. We agree that self-sustainment of food and agricultural land processing is of strategic importance for the country, so our customer aims to achieve at least 80% of self-sustainment in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia will be presented by Mr Aljoša Jerič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u10	Dear President, colleagues, colleagues and representatives of the Government! The proposal for a basic residence law is the third law of the so-called "primary residence". a troika of legislative proposals tabled by more than 5,000 voters and voters in the parliamentary procedure. In view of the unconstitutionally prepared content affecting the scope of the operation of several departments and which is incompatible with the Constitution in half of the articles, it was concluded that the law was not suitable for further consideration. Regardless of the relevant content, I will briefly present the solutions that the applicants have written in the draft law. The proposal for a basic residence law is intended to address the issue of the payment of personal debt to public companies with voluntary work and the right to organic land treatment for their own needs on state land. Such a solution should make a substantive reference to the General Declaration on Human Rights, to the European Guidelines on Organic Agriculture and to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. However, the basic objective of the proposed law is to ensure the free use and accessibility of basic living needs and conditions in today's world and to protect the population from the forced recovery of debts due to the cost of living and the burden of personal property. It should also allow and accelerate self-sustainment and healthy nutrition for minimum costs. The reasons for admission, i.e.: "for the protection of constitutional and human rights against the interests of corporations, international banks and the risks of lobbying and corruption, it is essential to adopt a legislative solution to the issue of basic residence, the costs of which must not endanger the very stay. During the financial crisis, basic residence costs may exceed the financial capacity of the population, so it is necessary to adopt a law in order to protect their rights, allowing for the repayment of debts to public services providing public goods." These are the consequences of the increasingly difficult living conditions that the current economic and financial crisis has led to, and many of us can understand and attach to, many of us. With the overall objectives, we probably all agree, that each of us deserves a decent life without unnecessary stress and fear of providing basic good and livelihoods, but also in this law in the Group of Positive Slovenia we also miss the responsibility of the individual to create our own future. As it is said, in the Parliamentary Group, Positive Slovenia will support the decision of the parent working body that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u11	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, Mr Daniel Krivec will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! 24. 12. 2013 The draft law on basic residence was tabled in the legislative procedure by a group of voters. In order to protect constitutional and human rights against the interests of corporations, international banks and the risks of lobbying and corruption, it is essential to adopt a legislative solution to the issue of basic residence, the costs of which must not endanger the very stay. As grounds for the adoption of the bill, the applicant shall state by law and by human rights the basic conditions of decent residence guaranteed. Since basic residence costs may exceed the financial capacity of the population during the financial crisis, the applicant believes that it is essential to adopt a law allowing the repayment of debts to public services providing public goods by voluntary work of the debtor in a public undertaking. The law is also intended to provide people with free rent of free and unprocessed agricultural land for organic food production for their own purposes. The main objective of the bill is, therefore, to ensure the free use and accessibility of basic living needs and to protect the population from forced recovery of debts, as well as to enable and facilitate self-sustainment and healthy nutrition for minimum costs. The Ombudsman should exercise control over the implementation of the law itself. The bill consists of two parts and under the general heading "basic residence" contains various legal materials, namely, the payment of personal debt to public companies with voluntary work and the right to organic processing of food. Such an approach is legally controversial, since, in addition to the requirement that the law should represent a substantively linked and rounded whole, it raises the question of the relevant decision of the competent ministry. In addition, the Legislative and Legal Service notes that the proposal for a law derogates from other legislative proposals in the legislative procedure concerning the preparation itself. The proposal for a law is inconsistent with the rules and guidelines for standardising legal rules and, as it is prepared, is not appropriate to enforce it in accordance with the legal order. The bill contains general provisions that could seriously undermine the rule of law. Nor does the draft law provide for all the rights and obligations that would have been necessary in order to achieve its purpose. It is because of all the above-mentioned law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group that we cannot support.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Samo Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! The basic residence bill is one of the three laws introduced in the package by civil society in the parliamentary procedure. Let me begin by stressing that the Social Democrats welcome and support the active role of civil society organisations and citizens in proposing legislation. The introduction of a bill with 5,000 signatures by voters and voters does not happen very often. On the contrary. In this case, many more signatures have been collected than necessary, indicating the current nature of the problem and the people's desire to participate in decision-making processes. On the Committee on Infrastructure and Space, we voted in favour of the conclusion that the law was not suitable for further consideration. Perhaps we can discuss the content of the law and the solutions offered, whether they are good or not, but we were unable to pass the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, especially not past the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which examined the law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the legal and technical aspects. Already legal mothers treated by law, i.e. the payment of personal debt to public companies with voluntary work and the right to organic food production, are different and do not belong to one law. In addition, the law is inconsistent with the rules and guidelines for the standardisation of legal provisions, namely the resolution on normative activities, so that we do not talk about non-compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Social Democrats, as has already been said, welcome the active role of civil society movements as well as citizens and citizens, and welcome the public presentation of the opinions organised by the Health Committee and the Infrastructure Committee and the space on the three laws tabled by the same motioners. We regret that the proposal of the Basic Staying Act has remained in the shadow of the other two laws, the Self-Health Act and the Hemp Act. We also regret that the law is so confusing from a legal point of view that the procedure has practically been completed on the National Assembly's home committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Ms Kristina Valenčič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u16	Thank you for your word and have a nice day with everyone! More than 8 000 voters and voters have tabled the Basic Residence Act, along with the Self-Health Act and the Hemp Act, which this National Assembly has already considered and rejected. The main solutions to the proposal are the possibility of repaying debts to public undertakings with voluntary work and the possibility of renting free agricultural land free for the purposes of organic production for their own purposes. Both the Government and the National Council do not support the bill. Similarly, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly made a number of comments, legal systemic concerns and pointed out unacceptable systemic derogations. The proposal contains provisions which are retroactive and as such inadmissible and prohibited. Some solutions represent legislators' intervention in a free economic initiative and property rights, which are constitutionally protected categories. In the Citizens' List, we are pursuing a vision of a country that will offer citizens and citizens more opportunities for development and quality of life. We believe that the tools to achieve this goal are more conducive to the business environment. The latter will be able to bring new economic growth, new jobs and a better standard of people. In order to achieve this, however, the country should limit its regulatory role and bureaucracy in addition to a number of other measures. It is our belief that the state should not manage the economy, but merely ensure conditions. By legalising the possibility of repaying debts to public undertakings with voluntary work and the possibility of renting free agricultural land for organic production, they would not only violate the constitutional principle of the protection of property rights and the free economic initiative, but also at least in the case of so-called debt repayments to public undertakings, they would jeopardise the implementation of the public economic service and thereby public benefit. For all the reasons listed in the National Gazette, we support the proposal of the Home Committee that the law is not suitable for further consideration. At the same time, it is necessary to say that in the Civil Gazette, with the agriculture programme, we have clearly defined ourselves to increase self-sustainment with organically produced healthy food, so in this part we can draw a parallel to the solutions of organic food applicants.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u17	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Ms Jasmina Opec will present the position.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u18	Thank you so much for your words and welcome everyone together! So today we still have a third law on the parliamentary benches in the framework of the draft laws introduced in the legislative procedure last December by a group of voters and voters with a first-signed Jako Bitence. The basic residence bill is the last of the so-called three laws to improve the quality of health, life and the proper use of space for residents and residents of Slovenia. The law on the parental committee also did not receive support from Members and Members because of non-compliance and non-conformity and because it regulates the areas falling within the competence of the various government departments. And about the content of this. The basic residence law is intended, on the one hand, to allow free leases of free agricultural land for the purposes of organic production for its own purposes and, on the other hand, to make it possible to repay debts to public undertakings with voluntary work and thereby protect socially disadvantaged residents from overburdening property due to the costs of day-to-day residence. The two solutions, according to our Group of Members, are interesting, but in practice they could cause great inequality among people and trigger mass non-payment. The provisions of the proposed law, whether directly or indirectly, are on the way. Voluntary work cannot and must not become a substitute for cash settlement of unpaid accounts to public undertakings. The provisions of the current Law on Volunteering provide that volunteering is socially beneficial for the free activity of individuals for whom no payment or material benefits are expected for individuals, but only for the benefit of others or for the benefit of the public. On the other hand, such a possibility of compensation, which, of course, is not voluntary work, but more complementary work, would direct people to the non-payment of invoices or bills to public companies. The possibility of settlement would be too tempting, and the quality of the work done would be more or less under a significant question. The second half of the proposed measures, the right to rent land free of charge for the purpose of organic processing of land for its own purposes, also raises certain questions. While the idea of leasing unprocessed land is to be supported by renting, this could, for example, improve low self-sustainment with vegetables, this needs to be carefully and systematically regulated in order to avoid possible abuses. Although we had predicted in the Slovenian People's Party that the law would not receive support. However, thanks are certainly due to the applicants for their efforts. We hope that, with regard to the use of unprocessed land and the possibility of a way of repaying debt to public enterprises, the government will not overlook the message sent by civil society through this proposal. Unprocessed agricultural land means the direct loss of gross domestic product and therefore effective use must be addressed without delay. It is also necessary to face an ever-increasing problem of non-payment of public services and, on the other hand, by increasing the unemployed army. From this point of view, voters and voters identified the real problems in Slovenia, which need to be approached without delay, even with small steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u20	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the DeSUS Group, we understand and support the intention of the drafter of the basic residence law. We are aware that the financial and economic crisis has caused more and more citizens and citizens to face poverty, that costs exceed income levels, even though we are talking only about basic costs such as utilities, electricity and food bills. We agree with the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which considers the bill to be very poorly technically prepared, since under one title it governs two different mothers, i.e. the payment of personal debt to public companies with voluntary work and the right to organic food production. Such regulation is legally controversial in their view, since, in addition to the requirement that the law should constitute a substantively linked and rounded whole, it raises the question of the appropriate designation of the competent ministry. The Government also considers that the proposal for a law is inappropriate for further consideration. It expresses its concerns and asks what the proposed method of repayment of debts would mean for public undertakings to operate. There is also a legitimate fear that such a concept could be passed on to other areas. We find the idea of free processing of abandoned agricultural areas for our own self-sustainment very nice. Sometimes, with a heavy heart, one looks at the agricultural areas that are growing, rather than, of course, at the consent of the owners, who are allowed to process abandoned areas. However, despite the attractiveness of the proposal in the DeSUS Group, we believe that the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly are too serious to be overlooked. Therefore, the Members and Members of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will support the decision of the parent working body that the proposal of the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 18th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the driver laws after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. The position will be presented by the Magi. Bojan Babič, State Secretary, Ministry of Infrastructure and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Driver legislation is governed by the Drivers Act, which has been in force since 1 July 2011. So far, one amendment to the Drivers Act has been proposed, which is also intended to regulate the partial transposition of Directive 2006/126/EC and Directive 2012/36/EU, but this was not confirmed as appropriate for further consideration in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia after the general discussion on 28 March 2013. The Ministry of Infrastructure and Space was informed last year by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the delay in transposing directives that the competent services of the European Commission had opened proceedings against the Republic of Slovenia in the framework of the EU-Pilot project on 8 August 2013 due to a delay in the transposition of Directive 2012/36/EU concerning the inclusion and use of the RESPER network, the European Union network for the exchange of data on driving licences. The Ministry has also received an official notice from the European Commission for not notifying national rules for the transposition of Directive 2012/36/EU relating to the registration of a code in the performance of a practical part of the driving licence on a motor vehicle with an automatic transmission gearbox. The other provisions of Directive 2012/36/EU have already been transposed by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space by the adoption of the Regulation amending and supplementing the Regulation on driving licences and the Regulation on driving licences. The essential amendments to the amendments to the Drivers Act are: partial transposition of Directive 2006/126/EC relating to the establishment and use of a European Union network for the exchange of data on driving licences; partial transposition of Directive 2012/36/EU relating to the registration of a code following the practical part of the driving licence carried out on a motor vehicle with an automatic changer into a driving licence; implementation of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council 1071/2009 laying down common rules on the conditions for the performance of the road carrier's activities and repealing Council Directive 96/26/EC; minor editorial corrections necessary for the enforcement of legislation in the field of motor vehicles and drivers, namely the harmonisation of the new driver's law with the amendment of the motor vehicle law; a clearer and unambiguous record of the provisions taking into account the final medical certificates for the management of the withdrawal of driving licences for health reasons; and the integration of the register of driving licences of driving licences to the driving licence holders of driving licences by means of a driving licence. In view of the already open procedure against the Republic of Slovenia concerning the delay in the inclusion and use of the network for the cross-border exchange of data on driving licences and the formal notice adopted by the European Commission for the non-notification of national rules for the transposition of Directive 2012/36 of the EU relating to the registration of a code in the performance of the practical part of the driving licence on a motor vehicle with an automatic gearbox, a proposal for a law should be adopted as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Infrastructure and Space as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Sam Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u24	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! At its 15th meeting, on 12 March 2014, the Committee on Infrastructure and Space considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Drivers Act, which was sent by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. At its 83rd meeting, on 21 February 2014, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided to consider the draft law following a reduced procedure. In the course of the course of business, amendments were tabled by the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the Civil Gazette and the Democratic Party of Slovenian Pensioners to the seventh section of the law. In addition, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space Mag is the Secretary of State. Bojan Babič, on behalf of the proposer, said that the main objectives of the proposal are to comply with European legislation and legislation in the field of motor vehicles. The proposed law transposes the provisions of Directive 2006/126/EC into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia relating to the establishment of a national contact point for the cross-border exchange of data on driving licences and part of the Annex to Directive 2012/36/EC relating to the registration of a code in the driving licence after the practical part of the driving licence has been carried out on the motor vehicle with the automatic transmission. For the purpose of implementing Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006, The fines shall be fixed for offences against the legal person of the independent entrepreneur of the individual or individual who carries out the activity by which the driver carries out the carriage of goods or passengers without a valid driving licence. In addition to these alignments with EU law, the novelty also provides for a clearer definition and a clearer record of the provision to take account of the final medical certificates for the management of administrative procedures for the withdrawal of driving licences for health reasons. This amendment is urgently necessary due to the uniform part of the administrative units involved in the management of the administrative procedures for the withdrawal of the driver's licence. Ms Sonja Bien Karlovšek, representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, said in her presentation of the written opinion that comments had been made on individual articles of a nomotechnical nature which were taken into account by amendments to the coalition groups. The President of the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, Jernej Verbic, stressed that the Commission supports the bill and has no comments on it. The debate drew attention by the opposition Member to the fact that the amendment of the Drivers Act, which would have transposed the directives into the legislative procedure a year ago, had been tabled but at the time decided that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration. The Committee then adopted amendments to the parliamentary groups of the Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National Gazette and the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation is prepared on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jože Velinja will be the first to present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u26	Mr President, representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law that we are considering today is highly technical in nature, but it is essential, as the area of the state geodetic reference system is currently governed by the Basic Geodetic Measurement Act from membership in the former country, from the 1970s or 1980s. It is understandable that the law in force is therefore technologically and professionally obsolete in view of the timescale, and updates are also needed under European guidelines and regulations. The bill provides for a new geodetic reference system based on the European Spatial Reference System [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u27	Excuse me, Mr. Velikonja, do you have the right agenda? [[…]] Because we are now considering a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Drivers Act. [[advertising from the hall]] It's okay. Thank you very much. Does anyone from Positive Slovenia have a position on this law? If not, then we continue with the next Group of Members. On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Ljubo Žnidar will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u28	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposed solutions on amendments and additions to the Drivers Act were forwarded to the procedure as early as February last year, but then the current ruling coalition adopted a decision by way of a vote to withdraw the law from further consideration. On the basis of a warning from the European Commission, the law is being re-examined today. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have no problem with the fact that the ruling coalition has summarized our initial proposal, but of course the European Commission would not have warned us again if we had completed the law and adopted it last year. However, the law itself establishes and makes use of the European Union network for the exchange of information on driving licences. The data will be exchanged through the European Union's single network for driving licences, for the execution of tasks related to the issue, replacement, renewal or revocation of the driving licence. The law further provides for a description of the code in the driver's licence following the practical part of the driving licence on the vehicle with the automatic gearbox. fines shall be fixed for transport offences without a valid driving licence, both for individuals and for legal persons. We will not oppose the law itself in the Slovenian Democratic Party, as it follows fully our original proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk will present his position on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the amendment of the Drivers Act before us. The proposed amendment to the law involves a partial transposition of the European Directive, which is linked to the establishment and use of the European Union for the exchange of data on driving licences. This means that Slovenia shall ensure the verification, issuance, replacement, replacement, revocation of the driving licence in other Member States and the use of the European Union driving licence network established for that purpose. Before using the RESPER network, this is a network of the European Union for the exchange of information on driving licences, a regulation should be adopted in the Republic of Slovenia to fully regulate the transposition of the provisions of the Directive relating to the establishment and use of this network and to upgrade the existing register of drivers on driving licences with the requirements of the technical documentation. The Ministry of Infrastructure and Space foresees that, following the adoption of the proposed law in March 2014, it will be possible to provide access through the RESPER network from 1 April 2014 to data on driving licences issued, replaced, replaced or revoked in the Republic of Slovenia. Competent authorities, such as administrative units which may change driving licences in the Republic of Slovenia and which are issued abroad, may use the European Union network for the exchange of data on driving licences from 30 June 2014 to 30 June 2014 when replacing driving licences issued in other Member States. The proposed law shall transfer to the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia part of the Annex to Directive 2012/36/EC relating to the registration of a code after the practical part of the driving licence on a motor vehicle with an automatic transmission to the driver’s licence. If a person carries out a practical part of the driving test on a motor vehicle with an automatic gearbox, this shall also be duly recorded at the time of the issue of the driving licence, on the basis of the registration of the code in the driver’s licence. A driver with such a code entered in a driver’s licence may only drive vehicles with an automatic transmission. The code shall be deleted from the driving licence if the person carries out a practical part of the driving licence on a motor vehicle with a manual gearbox. In addition to these changes, the proposed law also proposes minor editorial changes, which are essential for the enforcement of legislation in the field of motor vehicles and drivers. Since this is a proposed novel for minor changes, especially the transposition of European directives into the Slovenian legal order, we will support the law, but we cannot pass through the open procedures of the European Union against the Republic of Slovenia due to the delay in transposition of directives into the Slovenian legal order. The Ministry recalls that in preparing the legislative proposals adopted to transpose the content of the Directives into our national legislation, it should not delay and prepare legislative proposals in due time to avoid warning and the time pressure to adopt legislation in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Ms Kristina Valenčič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Secretary of State with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! The Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Drivers Act transposes into the Slovenian legal order the provisions of the European Directive relating to the establishment of a national contact point for the cross-border exchange of data on driving licences and the Annex to the Directive relating to the registration of a code in the performance of a practical part of the driving licence on a motor vehicle with an automatic transmission. Penalties shall also be laid down for offences committed against a legal person, a sole entrepreneur of an individual or an individual who carries out an activity on his own, whose driver carries out the carriage of goods or passengers without a valid driving licence. As we have already heard, the Republic of Slovenia has already received an official notice from the European Commission due to the non-compliance of national rules, as well as proceedings against the Republic of Slovenia regarding the delay in the inclusion and use of the network for the cross-border exchange of data on driving licences. In the Civil Gazette, we agree with the proposed solutions and we will also support the proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u33	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, Mr Jakob Presečnik will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u34	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Mr Secretary of State with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Drivers Act was already dealt with in the National Assembly a year ago with content similar to today and rejected. In fact, in that version, the proposal contained, among other things, some rapid abolition of the public transport safety agency, which we were not inclined to do at the time in the Slovenian People's Party. We have already said that, with the amendment of the law, some adjustments and additions are needed, as well as alignment with the acquis of the European Union. However, the planned reorganisation of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space should, of course, be thoroughly examined and, of course, carried out on a longer-term basis even if necessary. So today, in the National Assembly, we re-examine the same content as a year ago, but reorganisation is no longer the subject of a change of law. In the meantime, a new situation arose. In view of the non-notification of one of the Directives of the European Union and the delay in transposing the second Directive, the European Commission has introduced two infringement procedures against Slovenia, one concerning the exchange of data on driving licences in the European Union network and the other concerning the recording of quotas in the conduct of driving examinations. What I would like to say is that on our benches all too often there are novels of the law, which in the introductory explanations state that it is a matter of remedying infringements of European rules. As far as I know, all the rules of the European Union have quite a long deadline for transposition or notification, so I do not see any reason why it is a rule for the European Commission to open procedures one by one against Slovenia. I am sure that with a little goodwill we could avoid this to a considerable extent. On the other hand, we also note that infringement procedures are many times an excuse that opens the door to changes in the law, and then in a small review we find a series of other more or less disguised and unexplained corrections and additions, which has already become some kind of practice, and this is certainly not good. However, I would like to point out that I am speaking in general about many laws, not specifically about them. This law provides in the transitional provisions for the transition of one employee from one institution to another. While this is often used in many laws, the question is whether it is really necessary to regulate it in material laws, given that it is a unique event. But I reiterate that such a way is used quite often and then this one-off event appears in marriage, although I think it would be possible to regulate it in a different way. Notwithstanding these general comments, the law must be adopted and we will support it in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u35	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Respected and respected! Members and Members of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be supported by the proposal for the amendment of the Drivers Act. The main objectives of the bill are to comply with European legislation and legislation governing the field of motor vehicles. In the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, the provisions of the 2006 Driving Permits Directive relating to the establishment of a national contact point for the cross-border exchange of data on driving licences and part of the Annex to the second Directive on driving licences from 2012 relating to the registration of a code in the driving licence after the practical part of the driving licence has been carried out on the motor vehicle with the automatic transmission. For the purpose of implementing the Regulation on common rules concerning the conditions for the performance of the activities of a road carrier in 2009, fines shall be laid down for offences against a legal person, a separate entrepreneur of an individual or an individual who carries out an activity independently carried out by the driver without a valid driving licence. In addition to these alignments with European Union law, the amendment also provides for a clearer definition and a more unambiguous record of the provision to take account of the final medical certificates for the management of administrative procedures for the withdrawal of driving licences for health reasons. As the applicant points out, this amendment is urgently necessary due to the single part of the administrative units involved in the management of the administrative procedures for the withdrawal of the driver's licence. Finally, let me reiterate that in the DeSUS Group we will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u37	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, the position will be presented by Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u38	Dear President, Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In New Slovenia, we do not oppose the regulation of the Drivers Act by European legislation and legislation in the field of motor vehicles, nor do we oppose their transposition of the provisions of the Directive, which are linked to the establishment of a national contact point for cross-border exchange of data on driving licences and the transposition of part of the Directive relating to the registration of a code into a driving licence following a practical part of the driving licence on a motor vehicle with an automatic transmission. Although it is less difficult to amend and supplement the law and to bring the law into line with European Union law, which is the obligation of Slovenia as a Member State of the European Union, the novelty brings some additional emphasis on the liability of legal persons, independent entrepreneurs of individuals or individuals who carry out the activity of which the driver carries out the transport of goods or passengers without a driving licence. Such an offence is subject to a new fine of EUR 4 000 for a legal person, a sole entrepreneur of an individual or an individual who carries out such an activity on his own and a responsible person of EUR 1000. The law in force does not provide for this fine. In the New Slovenia Group, we have reasonable concerns about the proposed introduction of new fines, which represent a considerable additional financial burden for violators. It is true that such an offence cannot be justified, but we believe that the proposed fines are too high. In addition, we stress that such a transposition of directives into the Slovenian legal order could already take place last year, thus undoubtedly avoiding the open process introduced against Slovenia due to delays in their implementation. In view of the above, the Christian Democrats will abstain from voting on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Drivers Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u39	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 18th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. At the end of the day, this is a second defensively proposed law on the State Geodetic Reference System within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. The position of the Government will be presented by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, Mag Bojan Babič. [[..]] Mag. Grandmother, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The national geodetic reference system is a system of state infrastructure for determining and expressing the position of objects in the emerging area, consisting of a state coordinating system, data on topographic characteristics of the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and a systemic national map. The area is now regulated by the 1974 Basic Geodetic Measurement Act, which is obsolete both from an expert point of view and from a technological point of view from the point of view of European guidelines, regulations and commitments made by Slovenia. Europe, through the European Commission Directive on the establishment of spatial information infrastructure in the European Community – the INSPIRE Directive, introduces a common spatial reference system with a view to establishing a single reference basis for the connectivity and exchange of spatial data for the design and implementation of European policies. The law will provide for the establishment and application of the new State Space Coordination System in the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the guidelines of the international professional associations and the INSPIRE Directive, which is summarised in the Slovenian legal order with the Spatial Information Infrastructure Act in 2010. The compatibility of the Slovenian reference system with the situation in Europe will be ensured. The implementing rules for the coordination reference system and spatial data shall be applied throughout the European Union. The first is the use of a common European coordination system and the topographical data is the structure of data that allows data to be integrated into the wider European Union. It will establish a new state topographic system in the Republic of Slovenia. The current regulation based in the old law on the production of analogue cartographic products and the prescribed criteria has lost its importance in the digital world. It is necessary to redefine the basic topographical data provided by the State and maintained in digital format systematically for the whole country. The powers of the State on the national geodetic reference system will be regulated. The classical geodetic networks of basic geodetic points to the extent and performance as they once did are no longer established or maintained. The Act will define the new tasks of the State Geodetic Service in the field of the reference coordination system and in the field of the topographic and cartographic system carried out by the Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Slovenia in the public interest. The rationality of the public sector will be ensured. Due to the unclear and unregulated situation in the management of topographical data and spatial data sets, duplication occurs in the capture of the same or similar spatial data. With the adoption of the law, the database of basic topographical data will be kept in one place. Topographic object information will be made publicly available to all users. Systemic topographical data and state maps will be maintained. In view of the changed technology for the capture and management of topographical data and user needs, it is necessary to determine which topographic data, the quality and the products the country systematically provides and how they are managed – analogous or digitally. Issues of geodetic measurement in relation to property owners will be addressed. The new real-estate arrangements, the transition from social to private property and the increased importance of private property require a clear determination of the obligations of real estate owners with regard to the granting of access to their lands and buildings in the event of a geodetic measurement and the setting of state geodetic points by law. The Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Slovenia is already operationally implementing a new geodetic practice based on the Basic Geodetic System Strategy. Several thousand geodetic points have been measured. The transformation parameters for the transition between the existing and new European spatial coordination systems are calculated. A network of 15 fixed stations has been set up to determine the location of satellite technology. However, there is a significant gap between the regulatory regulation of the existing 1974 law, the INSPIRE Directive and the actual situation. It is therefore necessary to update the standardisation of the area of the national geodetic reference system. The financial implementation of the law shall be covered by the appropriations of the adopted State budget 2014-2015, in addition to 2016, the appropriations already granted from the European Economic Area financial mechanism for the project already approved, amounting to 1.7 million already implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Infrastructure and Space as a parent working body and I give the floor to the chairman of the Committee, Mr Sam Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u42	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! At its 15th meeting, on 12 March 2014, the Infrastructure and Space Committee considered the draft Law on the State Geodetic Reference System submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. During the course of business, 9 amendments were tabled by the members of the positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the Civil Gazette and the Democratic Party of the pensioners of Slovenia. On behalf of the proposer, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space Mag. Bojan Babič stressed that in Slovenia the area of the state geodetic reference system is currently governed by the Basic Geodetic Measurement Act 1974 and 1986, which, from an expert and technological point of view, from the point of view of European guidelines and regulations for professional initiatives and from the point of view of public and private users, no longer corresponds to the current situation. The draft law sets out a new geodetic reference system based on the European spatial reference system, while taking into account Slovenian specificities. Representative of the Legal and Legislative Service mag. Saša Bricelj Podgornik stressed that the Legislative and Legal Service gave an opinion in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects. She stressed that their comments were duly taken into account in the amendments of the coalition groups. The President of the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, Jernej Verbič, stressed that the Council of State supports the proposal of the law and has no comments on it. In a short discussion, Members marked the bill as highly technical and expressed their support. With regard to the content of the law, the question was raised, inter alia, which reference points would be merciless at the stage of the establishment of the new reference system. The new geodetic network is expected to be established within three years and, once it is established, this component will be switched to satellite height setting to the greatest extent. The Committee then adopted amendments to the parliamentary groups of the Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National Gazette and the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of the report. Let me add that I want this marriage to last for 40 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Daniel Krivec will be the first to present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to all present! The national geodetic reference system is a state-owned system infrastructure that establishes a state-owned spatial coordination system and a state-owned topographic system that allows for the determination and expression of the position of objects and phenomena in the physical space in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. It consists of a state coordination system consistent with the European system established by the recommendations of the professional associations and Directive 2007/2/EC establishing infrastructure for spatial information in the European Community, the topographical characteristics of the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and the systemic national map. The national geodetic reference system is the basic condition for determining and expressing positions and for establishing, managing and using spatial data in both the public and private sectors. It also enables the connectivity and sharing of real estate and other spatial data through coordinates or unique identifiers of topographical objects whose position is established in a single system and the rational implementation of geodetic measurements and the establishment of modern location services. Consumers of the State Coordination and Topographic System are all those who determine their location or use location-related data in their work. The state coordination system is used directly or indirectly by virtually all public sector and private sector bodies and institutions. The most obvious use of coordinated data is all data on space and environment and all types of location catastrouses and records. The national geodetic reference system, with the technical definition, physical establishment, making it possible to use it and to provide systemic topographic data and state maps, shall be maintained by the Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, which shall carry out the tasks of the State Geodetic Service in accordance with the Geodetics Act. In the Republic of Slovenia, the scope of the State Geodetic Reference System is governed by the Basic Geodetic Measurement Act, hereinafter referred to as the ZTGI. In practice, the ZTGI is no longer largely implemented. This 1974 law does not correspond to the current situation from an expert and technological point of view, from the point of view of European guidelines and regulations, professional initiatives and from the point of view of public and private users. It is therefore necessary to update the standardisation or regulation of the national geodetic reference system in Slovenia. The Republic of Slovenia must, on a new legal basis, establish a new state coordination system and bring it into line with the actual situation and requirements. The transformation of the coordinates of the existing spatial data from the old to the new State spatial coordination system, which is in line with the European system, must be carried out, which is also a requirement of the European Commission Directive. The Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Slovenia has been carrying out activities and projects for the establishment of a new system for several years and at the same time makes it possible to use it. The use of the European spatial reference system has already been prescribed to determine the horizontal coordinates of the cadastral points. General transformation models and parameters for the transformation of existing spatial data coordinates are defined. However, the new state coordination system has not yet been prescribed as an official. On a new legal basis, the Republic of Slovenia must define the tasks of the State Geodetic Service in the field of the reference coordination system and in the field of the topographic and cartographic system carried out by the Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Slovenia in the public interest. By adopting this law, the database of basic topographical data will be kept in one place and topographical data will be made publicly available to all users. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not oppose the technical law that solves this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Meh will present his position on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u46	Madam Vice-President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen! We will support the proposed law in the Group of Social Democrats. The national geodetic reference system is a system of state geoinformation infrastructure for determining and expressing the position of objects and phenomena in a space composed of a state coordinating system, data on topographical characteristics of the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and a systemic state map. It seems important to us that the state geodetic reference system is consistent with both European and technological developments. Pending the adoption of this law, the Basic Geodetic Measurement Act, which was already adopted in 1974 and amended in 1986, is therefore obsolete from an expert and technological point of view. The geopolitical picture of Europe has changed significantly in the four decades since its adoption, so that we are not talking about technological progress at all. The adoption of this law is an association to the common European space, in some way to the common reference system, with a view to establishing a single reference basis for the connectivity and exchange of data for the design and implementation of European policies. As I have already announced, MEPs and Members of the Social Democrats support this law, but we cannot wish it to be so long in force and use as the existing law, since technological and other parameters are changing so quickly that it is likely that an update will be necessary significantly earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u47	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Ms Kristina Valenčič will present her position.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. Say good-bye again! The national coordination system, the topographical characteristics of the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and the systemic state map shall form a single state geodetic reference system that allows and provides basic spatial information. It is the basis for the connectivity and sharing of real estate data for the rational implementation of geodetic measurements and the establishment of modern location services. The existing law governing the area of the State Geodetic Reference System is the Basic Geodetic Measurement Act 1974. The 40-year-old marriage is no longer appropriate in terms of professional, methodological, technological and terminology. As a result of technological and professional progress in the field of geodesy, Slovenia needs a new basic law that corresponds to the new social situation and follows the European directives. By adopting this law, the Republic of Slovenia will thus receive a new state-owned spatial coordination system, which will be in line with the European system. The new state topographical system, because we came from a period of printed cards during the digital data period. Further, the competence of the State and local communities in the state geodetic reference system and in the area of spatial data will be further regulated, as it is still too common for individual departments to provide spatial data in their geo-information systems, in accordance with their standards and needs due to lack of regulation. The collection of basic topographical data will be uniform and guided in one place, thus eliminating numerous duplications in the capture of the same data so far. Data on topographic objects will also be made publicly available to all users. Finally, the process of geodetic measurement in relation to real estate owners is being re-ordered. Members and Members of the National Gazette will support the bill, as the law brings modern European and unified geodetic spatial system and simplifies the geodetic measurement process itself. In the end, let me remind the government and the competent ministry of the coalition commitment that we will completely renovate spatial and construction legislation and establish a system from project to facility. We are convinced in the Civil Gazette that it is time for us to make this commitment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u49	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janez Ribič will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. Representative of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! This law, which is newly governed by the State Geodetic Reference System, is, as the Ministry's representatives have already said before me, highly technical in nature and is needed in particular to adapt to technological progress in this area and, of course, to the European Directive in this context. The argument that we need a new state topographic system certainly excuses the fact that we are in a period of modern digital data and that printed cards simply no longer provide reliability, let alone utility. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party, we have no reason not to support this law, especially since it will in fact be old, but the current Yugoslav regime of 1974, which we know under the name of the Basic Geodetic Measurement Act. If any, in this case the introduction of a new law and a new regime is more than justified. The Law on the State Geodetic Reference System provides, inter alia, for a new State Space Coordination System in Slovenia. At the same time, it ensures the compatibility of the Slovenian reference system with the situation in Europe, as already said, provides for a new state topographic system, regulates the jurisdiction of the country in the state geodetic reference system, establishes the method of use of data and, last but not least, regulates the issue of geodetic measurements in relation to property owners. In doing so, I would point out, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, one dilemma which has also arisen in the consideration of the home committee and which is not to be ignored in the light of recent complications in the introduction of the real estate tax. It is a matter of allowing private owners to access their lands, which, in the event that they do not allow it, will be subject to sanctions. It is true, however, that it is not an important issue of establishing a border that is of real importance to owners, as we know, but it is a matter of private property interventions. Therefore, the adoption of this law is accompanied by a warning to the representatives of the Geodetic Authority that, by a systematic approach and user-friendly implementation of the necessary procedures on private land, they will prevent various possible complications in a timely manner. This is so for the implementation of the geodetic measurement itself, and so much more so for the procedures for the establishment of state geodetic points. For the rest, we do not have any major reservations in this law in the Slovenian People's Party and, as has already been said, will receive our support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u51	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, the position will be presented by Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u52	I thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Respected and respected! We have before us a proposal for a law which, by its very nature, is an extremely technical law. Since in the Republic of Slovenia the area of the State Geodetic Reference System is still governed by the 1974 Basic Geodetic Measurement Act and the 1986 novel, we must urgently update the regulation of this area. For both the professional and technological aspects of the law in force, the European guidelines and regulations and the public and private users are inadequate for the current situation. The draft law sets out a new geodetic reference system based on the European spatial reference system, while taking into account Slovenian specificities. Its main objectives are to establish a new national spatial coordination system in the Republic of Slovenia, to ensure compliance of the Slovenian reference system with the situation in Europe, to establish a new state topographic system in the Republic of Slovenia, to regulate the jurisdiction of the country in the national geodetic reference system, to ensure the rationality of the public sector, to provide topographical data and state maps and to determine how data are used and to regulate the issue of geodetic measurement in relation to property owners. At the same time, we need to clarify that the geodetic measurement is not a geodetic procedure or border management procedure governed by the Real Estate Registration Act and that the owners of neighbouring properties are mutually regulated, but it is an expert technical procedure for the implementation and processing of measurements and observations. Their purpose is to determine the position, size, shape, characteristic of parts of the territorial surface or objects and parts thereof and the characteristics of the gravity field of the earth. The owners of the properties on which the geodetic measurements are carried out are not active customers, but passive participants who must allow access to the land and allow measurement and thus establish state geodetic points. In this regard, it is necessary to draw attention to the envisaged sanctions if the owner does not allow the geodetic expert to carry out geodetic measurements or prevents him from carrying out the measurements. The new geodetic network is expected to be established within three years. After its establishment, this component will also be switched to satellite height determination to the greatest extent. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u53	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, the position will be presented by Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u54	Your Honor! In Novi Slovenija we support the solutions and objectives of the Proposal for a Law on the State Geodetic Reference System, as it will redefine the State Space Coordination and Topographic System and thereby update the current regulation of this area in our country. The new geodetic reference system is based on the European spatial reference system, but takes into account Slovenian specificities. Christian Democrats, at first, had doubts about the disputed provision of article 30 of the bill, which provided for the establishment of public service services and the possibility of decommissioning public benefit for tax-listed state geodetic sites. The service would have been established on the basis of this provision and from the date of the entry into force of the law. By maintaining such a dictatorship in New Slovenia we could not defend the proposal, since the fundamental principle of the New Slovenia Party is work for the benefit of citizens. Since this provision has been completely deleted by the amendment and it is also a matter of full technical law, we will support the draft Law on the State Geodetic Reference System.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u55	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group, Positive Slovenia will be presented by Mr Jože Velikonja.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u56	Have a nice hello to you all again! Now we're in the law on the geodetic reference system. As has already been said, the draft Law on the Geodetic Reference System sets out a new geodetic reference system based on the European Spatial Reference System, while taking into account our specificities. It is a matter of establishing a new national spatial coordination system, ensuring compliance of the Slovenian reference system with the situation in Europe, establishing a new national topographic system, regulating the jurisdiction of the State on the national geodetic reference system, providing system-wide topographical data and maps, and determining how data are used and regulating the issue of geodetic measurements in relation to property owners. The bill will be supported by Members of Positive Slovenia. Members of Positive Slovenia will also support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Drivers Act, which was the subject of the previous reading point.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u57	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 18th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, this is to the contrary the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Gradual Closure of the Ripper Mine and the Developmental Prestructuring of the Region after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I therefore give the floor to the representative of the Government to further explain the proposal. The position will be presented by the Magi. Bojan Babič, State Secretary, Ministry of Infrastructure and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u58	Dear Vice President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! The law is prepared to extend the closure period of Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine, to relieve the budget of the Republic of Slovenia by extending the period and to implement a programme for the resolution of redundant workers. The proposed law transfers closing works from the end of 2015 to the end of 2018. The programme of closures will be fully implemented by means of the proposed extension. In 2014 and 2015 closing works in cave facilities will continue. With the amendment, it was agreed that the funds will increase by €4 million in 2014, totalling €9 million. For 2015, the level of funding remains unchanged, which is €5 million. For both years, management will provide financial resources by reselling real estate and movable property. Inflows from this heading are expected for 2014 from the sale of unnecessary cave equipment and in 2015 from the sale of dwellings. During the period 2016-2018, all necessary work in the area of eco-space surface rehabilitation must be completed and the remaining number of employees should be adequately resolved. Additional resources will be provided by the Ministry of Energy from its budget lines. The whole bill should take into account that the cumulative closures over the period 2010-2018, which are or will be budgeted, will not exceed the amount granted for the period 2010-2015 by the European Commission, namely EUR 89 million 909 thousand 467. The proposed amendments and additions will allow for a more appropriate reallocation of budgetary resources. By extending the closure activities by the end of 2018, it will therefore be possible to achieve reduced budgetary pressure and to fully reorganise the closure programmes across programme periods and to prevent a sudden increase in unemployment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The draft law has been considered by the Committee on Infrastructure and Space as a parent working body, so I give the floor to present the report to the chairman of the Committee, Mr Sam Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! At its 35th emergency on 12 March 2014, the Infrastructure and Space Committee considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the development restructuring of the region submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. At its 87th meeting, on 7 March 2014, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided to consider the draft law following a reduced procedure. Amendments to Articles 1 and 2 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups were tabled within the time limit. On behalf of the proposer, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space Mag. Bojan Kumer explained that, with the proposed amendment of the law, the closing part of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine is being moved from the end of 2015 to the end of 2018. The planned extension will fully implement the programme of closures by programme components or the final eco-space rehabilitation of the degraded area will be carried out and the company will also resolve all overworked workers. Sladjana Ješić, representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, said that the Legislative and Legal Service had given an opinion in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects, and all their comments were duly taken into account in the amendments of the coalition groups. The President of the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, Jernej Verbič, stressed that the Commission supports the proposal for legislation and the extension of the closures, as it will only allow the ecological rehabilitation of the degraded area. In the debate, Members expressed their single support for efforts to find solutions, which will lead to a calming of the situation in Rudnik Trbovlje-Hrastnik and end the sentence of miners. In addition to extending the deadline for the execution of closing works until the end of 2018, the Coalition Members stressed that the closure programmes have been fully implemented by individual programming periods, in addition to the extension of the deadline for the execution of closing works by the end of 2018. The proposed amendment of the coalition groups also provides funds for the payment of outstanding commitments to miners in 2014 amounting to EUR 4 million. Despite the uniform support expressed for the bill, opposition Members warned that an amendment would be adopted, which would also raise funds for 2015 by €4 million. The Secretary of State stressed that a similar increase in funds for 2015 is not necessary, as a smaller number of employees are expected to be employed at that time, and a real estate programme owned by the company is expected to be implemented. With regard to the operation of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine, it was also requested by some Members that the Committee immediately obtain a report on the audit of the company issued in October 2013 and prepared by an independent audit house. The Committee then adopted an amendment to Articles 1 and 2 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended amended legislation has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. The Committee also adopted the decision to place this item at the 23rd regular meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u61	Thank you very much. We are now moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups. Mr Srečko Meh will be the first to present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u62	Madam Vice-President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen! We adopted the new Law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the development restructuring of the region on the Infrastructure Committee in the spirit of the sentence of the miners of this mine. Although the Government has submitted the law to the National Assembly for consideration already before March 3rd, we have submitted a request for an urgent meeting of the Infrastructure Committee already on 7 March, that is, before the miners have decided to tighten the sentence in the mining trenches. The miners' strike is over. But before us is a law prepared to correct what we have done wrong in the past. Indeed, with the adoption of the ZUJF, we have reduced the closure and rehabilitation and restructuring resources of 44 million, but we should always be concerned that when the National Assembly or the State has made certain commitments to accept these obligations. With the proposed amendment, where no amendments are proposed, the closing work, as has been said, will be extended by three years, until the end of 2018. This will implement the programme of closing works in individual programming sets, and the final ecological spatial rehabilitation of the degraded area will be carried out, of course under the conditions that we will all do what we have promised, and I also mean what is written in this law and the means that we must receive. This will also solve the problem of over-employed workers. It is important to stress that the resources provided for in this law, which will burden the budget, will not exceed the level already approved for the period 2010 to 2015, and we have already heard that. With amendments to the law, we voted on the committee to allocate money differently over the years, which means that we increased the funds from €5 million to €9 million for 2014 and adjusted the budget expenditure to the financial capacity of the budget. With the adoption of this law on the home labour body, the professional requirements of miners have been met, and therefore this last act is missing, i.e. the adoption of the law. I believe that we will adopt it with a large majority, so I say that we will support the bill in the Group of Social Democrats. At the same time, we hope, in fact, to demand that the problems of the suction energy be resolved in an integrated way, without saving the mine for one day, and for the next day or for the next period, which belongs to the mines. Only in this way will we be able to do as citizens and citizens expect us to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List will be presented by mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! The mining industry in Slovenia has been marked by numerous closures of mines in recent decades. One of them is Rudnik Trbovlje-Hrastnik, which comprises approximately 1,400 hectares of area in the municipality of Trbovlje and Hrastnik. It stretches at a distance of nine kilometers. The suction is a region marked by a mining seal and has been mining for more than 200 years. In the past, of course, mining has brought prosperity and development to these places. All this time Zasavje is providing an important energy for heating and electricity for the wider Slovenian region, and today the region is facing job losses that mining provides and, of course, only ecological recovery. The Act on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the development restructuring of the region was adopted in 2000 and it provided for the mine to be closed in 2012. This deadline has already been extended once, and with today's novelty closing works are being extended until the end of 2018. In recent days, the lay public has repeatedly wondered why closing works last so long or why too much money has been spent for this purpose. At the same time, it should be reiterated that 200-year-old mining leaves under the ground and above the ground the consequences, the area is degraded and the country is obliged to take care of ecological and spatial rehabilitation. It is necessary to fill abandoned caves and establish a drainage system centre, to establish monitoring of the hydrological conditions in the cave, to dig up coal also on the surface, and also to prepare the surface for recycling or possible land change for sports or other facilities. The amendment thus prolongs the closing works until the end of 2018; it is envisaged that on 1 January 2016 only 30 people from the total currently 278 will be employed in the RTH. By extending the deadline for the implementation of closures by the end of 2018, it will also be possible to achieve reduced budgetary pressure. However, the amendment adopted by the coalition groups also provides funds for the payment of outstanding commitments to miners in 2014 amounting to EUR 4 million. This also met the striker's striker's striker's striker's striker's striker's striker's striker's striker's striker's striker's sentence. The closure of mines in all three Sava municipalities has worsened the social picture of this region, and unemployment is among the largest in Slovenia. In the final phase of the closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine, we call on the competent to actively cooperate and assist in the re-employment of employees. Although the activities and re-employment of Zava miners on Slovenian railways are already under way. However, it would certainly be fair for some of the miners to be redeployed to Velenje Mine. In the final phase, Scottish energy took away a large part of the energy pot used in the past by Zasavje. The Trbovlje thermal power plant is another victim of the TES 6 project. As soon as possible, a decision and proper action must be taken not to exacerbate the situation, as in the case of the Sauvage miners. "Good luck!" we would say Knapa and we would happily like to see a novelty and a solution to the problem of suction energy in the Civil Gazette as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u66	Thank you very much again, Madam Vice President. Secretary of State, this time with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! One interesting or rather tragic situation occurs on the parent committee, when a special audit report for RTH — Rudnik Trbovlje-Hrastnik was presented, but it was not because the audit firm Deloitte, which produced the report, said by letter that it was necessary to ask them whether we could or could not decide on the tens of millions, have a state-owned audit report assessing whether national funds were being spent rationally. This is the house that has certainly done quite a number of audits already in a number of Slovenian banks, which are being rehabilitated by public money today. Perhaps the quality of the report is so poor that someone is afraid to say how much money they have received for it and what conclusions have been made. As regards the general implementation of these recovery laws, the closure and so on, it is usually such that the part intended for wages is always fully fulfilled. However, the part that is intended for ecological recovery is far behind, and above all the human and social programme that we are supposed to do what we are talking about to create, that is to say, new jobs. A major problem in such environments is that it is always necessary to assess in the head once whether or not there is an individual activity perspective. And the big problem is, if they are responsible, let them be as I have already said, and from the congregation to the top of the government, they do not clearly and responsibly tell those who expect them to do so, especially to the employees and also to the citizens and citizens. A clear answer, instead of creating some false hope, how this will last forever. I speak, of course, as at two points back, more generally. On this particular matter, if you'll excuse me, I'm going to ask some thoughts or questions that I know I can't get an answer to at this meeting. First time. An invitation to tender for the co-financing of initial investments by companies creating or maintaining jobs in the municipality of Hrastnik, Radeče and Trbovlje for the period 2014-2015 has been published. For example, Zagorje fell out of this regional state aid scheme and the programme to promote competitiveness and development support measures for the municipality of Hrastnik, Radeče and Trbovlje. We do know, however, that all four congregations of Zava are in a similar economic situation. In all municipalities, people are employed in the mine and power plant, and in this regard, they have a uniformly distributed loss of jobs. An expensive question or other thought. 118 million taxpayers' money to be used to close RTH. Has the government conducted an audit of where these funds went? According to some information circulating, there have been strange financial speculations through various partner companies that have had exclusive access to all businesses. Third time. It's a developmental issue. When can we expect a strategy for energy development in Zasavje? If such a strategy is not prepared in time, a social bomb can certainly occur in Zasavje. Fourth time. Nor do we have the latest information on how the promises made by the Prime Minister of the Government to the miners at the time of the last visit at the time of the strike are being fulfilled. The promise was that the country would ensure that all workers who were fired would be given work in Slovenian railways and coal mines. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] But the question is, of course, what is going on with this right now. Otherwise, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u67	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Ivan Hršak will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we are united in support of the novel Law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the developmental restructuring of the region. We believe that it is essential that the country approves the necessary funds for the closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and that the adoption of this novel is also the only guarantee for RTH and for the local environment, or specifically for people living in this environment. The novelty allocates additional financial resources and only so will RTH be able to fully perform closing works and the necessary remediation of degraded areas and pay off all decommissioned miners. At the same time, the adoption of this proposal implies that the banks of the creditor will not initiate proceedings that would lead to bankruptcy. It therefore means facilitating discussions with banks with which RTH has to agree on the reprogramming of credits and reach agreement on the sale of assets. As a result, this would also allow for the payment of emoluments and re-employment premiums, or the self-employment of 135 already disposed miners, as well as salaries for employees in the coming months. The fact is that the Gradualization Act was passed over 200 years ago in the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine. The changes in the level of financial resources followed quite often. A key change in funding, however, is 2012 when the Public Finance Balance Act has intervened drastically in the already approved and envisaged financial resources of the project and has thus blocked around €42 million. The government had already announced this law last fall, but we only received it in March this year at the National Assembly. For I myself have come from this environment and have repeatedly called on government representatives to make the law necessary, but I have not received an answer or received only empty promises. I have learned from the informal sources that the delay is due to the lack of coordination between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space. The adoption of the law is crucial, I repeat, both for the mine and for the people, because this is the only way to prevent the socio-economic situation from falling in the Sava region. All members of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be supported by the bill. However, with regard to the perceptions or doubts as to the eligibility and usefulness of the use of the financial resources dedicated to this project, we propose a comprehensive audit by the competent authorities. However, in the event of a finding of irresponsible behaviour, we expect concrete action to be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u70	Your Honor! The proposal for a new Law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the development restructuring of the region, adopted by the National Assembly following a reduced procedure, is extremely important for the future of the Sava region at this time, especially in terms of addressing the social distress of the inhabitants there. Christian Democrats note that the country is a very poor owner and manager of its assets, as it became more active with the fate of Rudnika Trbovlje-Hrastnik only at the end of February this year, when it became clear that the State aid approved by the European Commission in 2011 for the closure of caves, the ecological spatial recovery of surfaces and the human and social programme would not be sufficient to close the mine until 31. 12. 2015 and when the situation has already crossed the threshold of social hazard for employees. Of course, we cannot deny that the Public Finance Balance Act in 2012 has reduced the budget allocated to the closure of the mine. This is the price we pay all citizens to cover the losses and losses that have occurred in recent years due to the irrational and uneconomic spending of taxpayers' money. Christian Democrats point out that the reduction of funds is not the only reason that the planned deadline is up to 31. 12. The 2015 mine will not be able to be safely repaired definitively. The mine began to close gradually in 2000 on the basis of the then adopted Law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the development restructuring of the region. There is no doubt that we have a responsibility to extend the closure of the mine and to provide additional budgetary resources in 2014, 2016, 2017 and in 2018, when the mine is to be definitively closed, we must also look for the company itself in its operations. While we believe that the revised medium-term RTH closure programme after the ZUJF partially reduced the costs of wages and rationalised other operating costs, we are confident that this is not enough. Given that the recession will continue for several years to shape the fate of the economy in our country, we are rightly asking in New Slovenia how to proceed. We are afraid that the country will face the same problem as today in 2018 when it has to be closed in accordance with the proposal for the amendment of the law. We are aware that by adopting the proposed amendment and supplementing the Law on the gradual closure of RTH and the development restructuring of the region today, we are solving the pressing environmental and economic problems in Zasavje, on which further living conditions of the employed miners depend. We regret that it is only today that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia decides on the content that should have been given priority much earlier and that the state apparatus has reacted, if I may say so, only after the resounding sentence of the miners who risked their lives to achieve their legal rights. In spite of these concerns, Christian Democrats are aware of the extremely critical situation in suspense energy. Since the adoption of the amendment will prevent a sudden increase in the number of unemployed in this region, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the developmental restructuring of the region. But we expect it to be 31. 12. 2018 mine is permanently closed and final spatial-environmental surface recovery will be carried out in the mining area.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u71	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group, Positive Slovenia will be presented by Mr Jože Velikonja.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u72	Say good-bye to everyone again! Today, we will also decide in this National Assembly on a law that will allow for the completion of more than 200 years of mining in Zasavje. We will decide on a segment in a series of activities that can still prevent the full destruction of state property, prevent the ecological and spatial rehabilitation of the area of the acquired area and prevent the fall to the social floor of employees in Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine. The closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine is a typical example of the machete relationship of our society and the system that decided a good decade ago at the referendum against the construction of the new Thermoelectric Trbovlje 3. On the basis of this decision, owners and professionals decided to close the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine for a project estimated at around €230 million in tax money. Despite the absence of funds in the then budget, the closing works began with the hiring of the loan. The provision of budget resources for the implementation of works was not followed by legal dynamics all the following years. The closing works were carried out in all the areas envisaged and the resources were adapted to scales and dynamics. And a key gap in the ZUJF project, which, without any arguments, reduced the necessary resources to complete the implementation of the closing works by 2015 by €44 million or 66%. A non-professional decision and a further unnecessary delay by preparing new solutions to close the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine. Although some members of Positive Slovenia have tried to correct the proposaler's error with the amendment, unfortunately we have failed. The country's current cumulative contribution to the closure work and the reduction in the number of employees by about a thousand is just over €170 million. This is less than the cost of building the infrastructure of a single hydro power plant on the Lower Sava. The law that we are going to decide on today is merely a patching of a hole in the indecision and preventing even greater damage to the work of the suction energy, state property, the environment and workers. It's a question of active re-employment. In spite of the law, it will be the priority of the owner and the management bodies of the company to patch up the company's non-business and unfair relations with employees, suppliers and banks. There is also an irresponsible question about the adoption of a plan for the restructuring of the power plant. The irony of the story is that there have been a number of concrete solutions on the determining tables for Thermoelectric Trbovlje as well, and decisions on how to continue to be held accountable after more than 13 years obviously do not need to be taken. Additional direct, almost 190 jobs in the Termoelectrica Trbovlje are in the air, in a company owned by the majority of the state with almost 20% of unemployment in Zasavje. Not to mention the cost of non-recovery and possible closure. No one planned these costs. There's no money for that. Today, however, we are only deciding on the Act on the closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine, so the Members of Positive Slovenia will support the amendment and addition of the Law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u73	Thank you, too. Mr Daniel Krivec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u74	Thank you, Madam President. Nice greetings to all present! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will not oppose the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gradual Closure of Trbovlje-Hrastnik and Developmental Restructuring of the Region. The proposed amendment shall extend the closure works of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine until the end of 2018. The closure period of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine is thus intended to be aligned with the possibility of final closure of the mine adopted by decision of 10 December 2010 on State aid to facilitate the closure of non-competitive coal mines, which sets the deadline for the closure of such a unit until 31. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In the period until the end of 2018, the final spatial and ecological recovery of the areas in the production space will also be possible. The measures for the purposes of closure activities have been reduced by the adoption of the ZUJF. With the proposed extension of the closure period, the funds granted as State aid for the period 2010-2015 shall also be redistributed for the entire period from 2010 to the end of 2018. The proposed extension of closures also provides for additional funding for the period 2016 to 2018 to cover the costs of closures. The cumulative resources already used and to be used throughout the period from 2010 to the end of 2018 will not exceed the amounts granted as State aid for the period 2010-2015. In addition to the existing supervision under Article 8 of the current law, the amendment introduces an obligation for the Ministry of Energy to report on a quarterly basis to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the level and purpose of the use of funds and the implementation of the mine closure programme. The Ministry will submit its first report to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the first quarter after the law has been enacted. In the event that the Government finds that closing works are not carried out in accordance with the expected dynamics, the Ministry of Energy will retain payments until the company has completed the planned work programme. Between 2000 and 2012, the costs of the closing works were EUR 194 million, of which EUR 174 million or almost 90% of the costs were covered from the budget and the remaining EUR 10 million from other sources were covered from the budget. The maximum costs were incurred at the burden of closing parts in caves, circus 74 %, followed by the costs of the staff-social programme, about 10 %, and the costs of ecologically spatial recovery of decommissioned areas of 9,7 %. The minimum share, which is 6.4%, together with the expenditure on repayment of the principal of the loan, covers the financing expenditure. The extension of closures until 2018 will also have to be notified to the European Commission. The draft law has financial implications for the state budget, the effects will be mitigated by the enforcement of the measures of this law by extending the revenue from the budget for the purposes of closing works in Trbovlje Hrastnik Mine for a longer period of time. For the implementation of the planned works 2016–2018, EUR 45.7 million is to be provided in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia in 2016, EUR 15 million in 2017, EUR 14.7 million in 2018 and EUR 15.8 million in 2018. A lot of doubts are raised by the fact that the money for re-employment is intended to be used by agencies that contract with the Slovenian Railways for services to be carried out by miners on Slovenian railways who will be redeployed. What this means for Slovenian railways, which have been reducing their costs for a long time and also forgiving their people to rationalise their business, is the second question. The Government has put the law into effect after a reduced procedure, as it considers it to be a less difficult amendment and a supplement, the law has only three provisions and the final provision provides that the law will enter into force as early as the day following its publication in the Official Journal. It is customary for the law to enter into force 14 days after its publication. As has already been said, we will not oppose the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u75	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 18th item of the Agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments and additions to the Act on takeovers after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. For further explanation of the law will anyone explain? [[…]] Just a minute. Mag. Janko Burger. The bill will be presented by a representative of the Government of Mags. Janko Burger, State Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members! The proposal for a new Law on takeovers was set by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at its 45th regular meeting on 13 February 2014 and complements the general takeover regime on the conditions for the cessation of voting rights sanctions in the event of non-compliance with the rules on compulsory takeover and the findings of applications. The draft law is without prejudice to the general principles of the takeover law on equal treatment of all persons or on the effectiveness and dissuasive nature of sanctions in the event of infringements. Even the opposite. The draft law basically eliminates the disproportionateity of the conditions for the cessation of voting rights in the case of persons who may, by a slight acquisition of securities over the security status of the voting rights referred to in Article 75 of the Law, cease all voting rights in the targeted companies. In explanation, these persons met one of the conditions laid down in Article 75 of the Law at the time of the entry into force of the Law in 2006 which did not give them the obligation to make a takeover offer because their share of voting rights, although it exceeded the threshold, was legal. Under the existing regime, those persons may regain voting rights only if they make a take-over offer or if they alienate securities below the take-over threshold. The new regime will put an end to such massive standstill of voting rights if they alienate securities so that they do not exceed the last legitimate share. Voting rights will only be granted until the first re-acquisition of securities. Restoration of voting rights in this case will not cease until persons make a takeover offer or withdraw securities below the take-over threshold. The proposed Article 2 of the draft law lays down an explicit legal basis for the issue of the findings of the decisions by which the Securities Market Agency will find a cessation of voting rights. The provision directs the Securities Market Agency to identify the current situation and decide in accordance with the applicable regulation even if it has already issued a decision prohibiting the exercise of voting rights, on the basis of a determination of the new actual circumstances and legal situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u77	Thank you, too. The draft law was treated by the Committee on the Economy as a working body and I give the floor to the chairman of the Committee, Mrs Alenka Pavlič, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u78	Thank you very much. The Committee on the Economy is at its 12th session. 03. 2014 treated the above-mentioned proposal as a parent labour force. The Chair's College is at the 83rd session of the 21st session. 02. 2014 decided that the proposal for a law should be examined in a simplified manner. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. The Committee received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects. In its opinion, the Service gave some warnings of a general nature, in particular with regard to respect for the principle of equality before the law, and also made specific comments to individual articles, namely Articles 1 and 2 of the bill. The Committee was also provided with the following material: the opinion of the Commission of the Council of State for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance and clarifications by the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. No amendments were tabled by qualified applicants to the law submitted within a time limit. At the meeting, members and members of the Committee were invited to submit a proposal for an amendment to the Committee of the PS, SD, DL and DeSUS by Article 2, which was adopted by the Committee in the debate. In an additional explanation, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service gave some warnings of a general nature, in particular with regard to respect for the principle of equality. On the proposal for an amendment to the Committee, however, she explained that the service agreed with it. Members and members of the Committee did not discuss the solutions and individual articles of the bill. As previously mentioned, in accordance with Article 131 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee's amendment to Article 2 was adopted by the Committee. The Committee then voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In view of the adoption of the amendment, the text of the amended draft law, which is an integral part of the Committee's report, is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u79	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Marko Pavlisič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! We adopt the proposal for a new Law on takeovers by means of a reduced procedure. Allow me to make such a short notice the position of the National Gazette. The Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette will support the amendment of the law. The purpose of the Acquisition Act is primarily to protect small shareholders in cases where someone wants to take over a company at the lowest possible price, so the law lays down rules and procedures on how such acquisition can be carried out, but in practice there has been no difficulty in particular in cases where the State has acted on the part of the owner in its broadest sense. Which is just another problem that we have because of the unhealthy ownership and management structure of state-owned enterprises. More or less, however, we will have to resort to such and different marriage patches to solve this problem. The recently adopted Slovenian State Holding Act is a real step in the right direction. The appointment of the expert supervisory committee, the preparation and adoption of the classification and, in particular, the strategy should be followed. Then we hope that such patches will no longer be necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr Janez Ribič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on takeovers, which we are considering following a reduced procedure, has, as we know, only two amended articles, which are of much greater importance than at first sight. The arrangements in force so far mean that the acquirer who has failed to comply with the obligation to make a takeover bid loses voting rights from all securities. I emphasize, from all the securities. Therefore, an illegal acquirer who has not made a takeover offer may exercise his voting rights only by publishing a takeover offer or by lowering his voting rights under a statutory threshold. However, such arrangements did not leave the person referred to in Article 75 of the Law on takeovers subject to a special transitional period subject to the obligation to make a takeover offer until the first intended acquisition of securities. In the Slovenian People's Party, we agree that such a distinction between recipients is unacceptable, unfair and disproportionate, so we support the objective of the proposed law in order to ensure a systematic equal treatment of all persons under the Takingovers Act in the design of effective control and procedural mechanisms and for the sanctioning of violators. The proposed solution will thus enable the re-enforcement of voting rights due to a violation of the status of voting rights in the target company referred to in Article 75(2) of the Takingover Act in such a way that, in addition to the existing options, the publication of the takeover offer or the removal of securities under the assumed threshold, further enables the acquisition of voting rights by also disposing of securities or shares under the last legal share. Thus, under the new conditions for the restoration of voting rights, they will be equal for all recipients and thus the rules of the game will in fact be the same for all. That is why we also agree with the proposed amendments in the Slovenian People's Party's Group and will vote in favour of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on takeovers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u83	Thank you, too. Mr Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we will support the amendment of the Law on takeovers, because we believe that the proposed solution is to restore voting rights to the illegal acquirer, provided that it no longer reaches the threshold or that the takeover threshold or the additional acquisition law no longer exceeds. In our parliamentary group, we note that the solutions proposed thus complement the general assumption of the conditions for the cessation of sanctions in the context of the standstill of voting rights in the event of non-compliance with the rules on compulsory takeover and the findings. The proposal also introduces the issuing of the conclusions by which the competent authority, namely the Securities Market Agency, will determine the cessation of voting rights and find that the actual current situation is consistent with the applicable legislation. In our parliamentary group, we assess and, at the same time, we are aware that corporate acquisitions and mergers are a very risky business, but an extraordinary opportunity for additional capital. The fact that even 30 to 50% of all money is lost is not negligible at all. We believe that investors often do not hear or want to hear such arguments. I also saw some statistics in the paper, namely that the number of takeovers and mergers last year increased to more than 5 000 500, while the total value of transactions declined for the second year in a row. This means that economic uncertainty has brought 12% reduction in the volume of acquisitions and mergers of businesses in the European Union. Thus, in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia in the context of acquisitions in the financial field, we firmly believe that consolidation of the banking system will be necessary. In the DeSUS Group, we followed both the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the positive opinion of the State Council Commission on Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance. Given that the novel is more than welcome and meaningful to such arrangements, in the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia we took the position to support the complementary proposal of the parent working body. Of course, we will support it in the sense that such acquisitions by companies that will decide their own future in the long term will be more sustainable capital sustainability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u85	Thank you, too. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u86	Mr President, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on takeovers is new, allowing persons who have breached the obligation to make a takeover offer to obtain voting rights. They are acquired by lowering the proportion of voting rights, thus alienating the securities at the acquisition threshold they had at the last legal situation in the target society. We agree with the proposed amendment, as it eliminates the shortcomings of the current Law on takeovers in relation to the loss or return of voting rights. The fact is that the acquirer that has not fulfilled the obligation to tender has lost these rights from all securities. It is important that persons who, by adopting the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on takeovers, obtain voting rights will be granted until the first subsequent acquisition of securities. These persons will therefore continue to be subject to the obligation to make a takeover bid for each subsequent acquisition of securities. This obligation will apply for as long as it exceeds the threshold. However, in the event of a further acquisition of securities above the take-over threshold, the exercise of voting rights shall not cease until persons have made a take-over offer or withdrawn securities. Of course, the takeover bid or the removal will have to be so high that they no longer reach the threshold. The proposal for a novelty also provides an explicit legal basis for the adoption of the conclusions by which the Securities Market Agency will find the suspension of voting rights. In this way, the Agency will be able to identify the current situation and decide in accordance with the arrangements in force on the basis of the new factual circumstances and legal situation identified. It will also be able to do so in the event of a decision already taken to prohibit the exercise of voting rights. In Novi Slovenija we will support the proposed amendment of the Law on takeovers.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u87	Thank you, too. Ms Alenka Pavlič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The most recent amendment to the takeover Act of June 2013 has also introduced additional exceptions that do not require a take-up offer. In the target company, it thus made it possible to exercise voting rights in order to protect the public interest. The 2013 Novela thus introduced, with the prior agreement of the ATVP, the possibility of exercising voting rights in the target company when it comes to the realization of the public interest in which the holders are persons who acted in a coordinated manner and were deprived of the exercise of voting rights in the target company by a decision of the Agency. It also introduced the possibility of suspending the obligation to make a takeover offer or allowing the temporary exercise of voting rights to the offender in the event of ensuring the appropriate capital adequacy of the undertaking, its long-term payment capacity or financial restructuring. Today, however, we have before us an amendment to the Act on takeovers, which complements the general takeover regime on the conditions for the cessation of sanctions on the holding of voting rights in the event of non-compliance with the rules following the compulsory takeover offer and the findings. Thus, the novelty is without prejudice to the general principle of the takeover threshold or to the equal treatment of all persons or to the effectiveness and dissuasive nature of sanctions in the event of infringements. What the novel actually interferes with is the opposite. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Takeover Act eliminates the disproportionateity of the conditions for the cessation of voting rights in the case of persons who may, by a slight acquisition of securities over the protection of the lost status of the voting rights referred to in Article 75 of the Act, cease all voting rights in the targeted companies. By supplementing that provision, a person or persons acting in a coordinated manner may regain their right to vote in the target company, not only by publishing a takeover offer or by disposing of securities and share purchase options or future contracts that are not contained in securities under the assumed threshold, but also by disposing of securities and share purchase options or fixed-term contracts that are not contained in securities under the last legal share. I would certainly like to point out here that, with the implementation of the Law on takeovers in 2006, these persons met one of the conditions laid down in Article 75 and that, precisely because of these conditions, the obligation to make a takeover offer did not apply to them. Their share of voting rights, although above the threshold, was legal. The existing arrangements for these persons provide for the possibility of re-enlisting voting rights only if they make a take-over offer or if they alienate securities below the take-over threshold. The new regime will put an end to such persons' standstill in voting rights if they alienate securities so that they do not exceed the last legal share. Voting rights will only be granted until the first re-acquisition of securities. The exercise of voting rights in such a case will not cease until persons have made a take-over offer or withdrawn securities below the take-over threshold. The Novela thus introduces an explicit basis for the issuing of the conclusions by which the ATVP will be able to determine the cessation of voting rights. The provision directs the Agency that even if it has already issued a decision prohibiting the exercise of voting rights, they shall, on the basis of a determination of the new actual circumstances and legal conditions, establish the current situation and decide in accordance with the applicable legislation. At the time of the adoption of the 2013 novelty, today's amendment and addition to the takeover law were also announced and expected. For all that is said, the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia will support the upcoming novelty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u89	Thank you, too. Mr Franz Breznik will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u90	Thank you very much. The Government has put in place a procedure for the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on takeovers following a reduced procedure. The Government, as the proposer, states that it is less difficult to supplement the Takeover Act, which complements the general takeover regime by allowing the person who has obtained voting rights in the target company to make peace for breach to make the takeover offer referred to in Article 75(2) of the Law and to obtain them again if it reduces the proportion of voting rights to the last legal share in the target society. The reason for such an amendment should be that the current provision in Article 63 of the Law is unfair and disproportionate to the persons referred to in Article 75(2) of the Law under which the obligation to make a takeover offer arises. In the event of a significant exceedance of the threshold, the person or persons acting in a coordinated manner shall be punished by the confiscation of all voting rights which may be regained only by the sale of the takeover offer or by the removal of securities under the take-over threshold. Article 2 of the proposal, however, lays down the legal basis for the issuing of the conclusions by which the Securities Market Agency would find that the standstill of voting rights has ceased. In our view, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, the proposed regulation must be assessed in particular in the light of Article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. equality before the law. The law in Article 7 sets a threshold at which an offer must be made for acquisition. This is defined as a unitary proportion of voting rights in the target society following the implementation of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on takeovers. The acquirer that reaches the take-over threshold shall not exercise voting rights in the target company until he has made the take-over bids or has withdrawn the securities in such a way that the take-over threshold is no longer reached. Respectable. The principle of equality before the law constitutes, in particular, a requirement for the non-arbitrary application of the right to legal entities and also obliges the legislator to ensure the equality of entities in legislative standardisation. This does not mean, of course, that the regulation should not otherwise regulate the situation of legal entities, but that it must not do so voluntarily, without a reasonable and genuine reason. This means that the distinction must serve a constitutionally permissible objective, that this objective must be in a reasonable connection with the subject matter of regulation in the regulation and that a distinction must be introduced to achieve this objective. The applicant therefore submits only that the current arrangement should be unfair to the persons referred to in Article 75(2), because they may already be obliged to sell a relatively large proportion of securities in the target company if they do not choose to make a takeover offer at the time of obtaining a small share. Explanations as to why these persons should continue to be treated differently from the other acquirers under the previous arrangements, the applicant has not submitted, nor has it explained what the constitutionally permissible objective is and whether it is a reasonable measure. In view of the above, we do not consider that it has been shown that the distinction between the recipients is justified and this is a question of compliance with Article 17 of the Constitution of Slovenia. Respectable. Furthermore, the proposed amendment to the law does not, in our view, remove the obligation of the takeovers referred to in Article 75(2) of the Law to make a takeover offer. This obligation remains for them, and in our view the sanction is not such as to force them to fulfil this obligation and is therefore not effective, which could constitute a breach of European Union law. Directive 2004/25 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 April 2004 on offers and acquisitions, page 12, has been transposed by law into our legal order. Article 17 provides that Member States must lay down sanctions to be imposed on infringements of national measures. Such sanctions must be effective, proportionate and particularly dissuasive. After all, all the arguments I have made here will not be supported by the additions to the takeover law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr Branko Smodiš will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. All present, good afternoon! Social Democrats welcome the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on takeovers that protect the interests of the State, as voting rights are restored to it in the most important decisions in companies that are predominantly state-owned. In our opinion, these amendments to the law should be considered and adopted before the time. The amendment of the law will, in particular, prevent any abuse or manipulation of a private or minority interest which, at the time of the stay of the voting rights of the State, may have benefited from such arrangements and conditions and may have opted at the expense of State property for its own interest, not for the common public or public interest. The amendment thus complements the general takeover arrangements in order to allow a person who is at peace with the voting rights of the target company to regain voting rights in the target company if he reduces the proportion of voting rights to the last legal share in the target company protected under Article 75 of the Takeover Act. By supplementing that decision, a person, or persons acting in a coordinated manner, may regain voting rights in the target company, not only through the publication of a takeover offer or the removal of securities and share purchase options or fixed-term contracts that are not contained in securities under a take-over threshold or an additional take-over threshold, but also by the removal of securities and share purchase options or fixed-term contracts that are not contained in securities as the last legal share. The proposed arrangements are thus comparable to the general takeover arrangements when the illegal acquirer is able to recover the voting rights if the take-over or additional take-over threshold is no longer reached. In the event of the securitisation of securities and share purchase options or future contracts on the last legal portion protected under Article 75 of the takeover Act, an obligation is imposed on the Securities Market Agency to issue a new decision on the basis of which a person or persons acting in a coordinated manner shall regain voting rights in the target company. Of course, on the basis of the proposed law, we expect the country to return voting rights in Telekom Slovenije, New Credit Bank Maribor and Aerodrome by reducing its share in the last legal share. By reducing the country's share of the previous situation, the state will be able to have voting rights, for example for the construction of a terminal at the Ljubljana Aerodrome. Also important are voting rights in terms of preparatory offences for the sale of ownership shares in companies envisaged for sale, for example in Nova Kreditni banka Maribor. Social Democrats do not want individuals to be able to exploit state property in their own interests simply because the state has been deprived of voting rights. As a result, we are pleased that the adoption of the law will finally remedy the current situation that is harmful to the country and that the new regime will not harm small shareholders. In view of all of this, the Group of Social Democrats will support the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the takeover Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u93	Thank you, too. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly, in the framework of the half-hour vote, after the end of the 18th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 21. At the beginning of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism. The draft law was tabled by a group of 26 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 26 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposers of the bill, Mag. To Andre Shirtzle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u94	Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, Honourable Director of the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, on the basis of the analysis and on the basis of the report of the Office, we have identified the increasingly important role of the Office, particularly when it comes to preventing money laundering and when it comes to financing terrorism. The analysis shows, including those made by the Office, that the number of transactions suspected of money laundering is increasing and that the number of transactions in this context is also increasing internationally. The Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism has limited powers under the current law, namely, it has jurisdiction to send the information it receives from banks, financial institutions, insurance companies and so on to the competent authorities for further consideration, i.e. the ordinary police, the Prosecutor's Office, the Slovenian Intelligence Agency and so on. In short, he gets information that he sends to other authorities. We believe that this office should also be given the opportunity to carry out an investigation. The investigation, of course, in order to simply increase its effectiveness and to determine, on the basis of the fact that it could actually review individual transactions, the situation of each transaction and, of course, to continue to act on the basis of greater competences. In this regard, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the novelty and, of course, the debate on this subject is also necessary. Especially because within the government we do not want to have offices, agencies, services that can in some way be toothless tigers. Of course, these transactions are also being investigated today. They are usually performed by the police, or they have the authority to do so. Of course, the police are another body that is probably less specialized in such transactions, given that police can also carry out other investigations, such as homicides, thefts and the like. We believe that the investigation role or investigative function should be combined in one body. This would, of course, also achieve greater specialisation, greater operationality and, last but not least, greater efficiency. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have proposed articles of the law, which in fact mean the possibility for this body to carry out an investigation. In addition, it may carry out an inspection, as would be possible after the ZUP, which is the difference between the investigation and the inspection, or by actually supplementing this law in further proceedings with the inspection work, if that were the opinion of others. In short, this matter of inspection remains open. However, we believe that the inspection is also much more effective if the investigation is included in the inspection. After all, we came to this view or opinion when we observed an investigation or inspection in the framework of tax checks. I understand that this is not the same procedure. I also understand that it is not necessarily the same content, but the parallels are here. In fact, there is money everywhere and inspections are much more effective now that the Tax Procedure Act also includes an investigation. In short, the law proposes that as little money laundering as possible in Slovenia, that as little financing for terrorism as possible, and that, of course, those who do so will also be punished.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u95	Thank you. In order to give an introductory explanation of the opinion of the Government, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mag. Matthew Vraničar, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u96	President, thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is taking and supporting all initiatives aimed at greater efficiency in preventing money laundering and terrorist financing in Slovenia. However, we assess that the proposal of a group of members of the National Assembly in the form proposed does not necessarily lead to this objective. In particular, we consider that the proposed amendment to the law is controversial in dealing with the granting of investigative powers to the Office and the dissemination of legally-defined incentives for the initiation of data collection and the analysis of data collection and notification for suspected crime and money laundering or terrorist financing. The granting of investigative powers to the Office would inevitably result in overlap and even interference with the powers of the crime detection and prosecution authorities, which could make it difficult or even prevent the effective execution of the criminal procedure. By granting investigative powers and, consequently, the possibility of conducting investigations into the specific suspicions of a crime of money laundering, the Office would undoubtedly have been given police powers and we assume that the applicants did not have in mind. However, this does not mean that employees of the Anti-Money Laundering Office are not already participating in the investigation teams led and guided by the State Prosecutor's Office. In addition, by extending the incentives provided for in Article 60 of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism, there would be a breach of the principle of the division of power, since the National Assembly, as a legislative authority, could intervene in the work of the enforcement authority, in which case the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering would work. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia believes that measures aimed at greater efficiency should, inter alia, be based on the granting of inspections — not investigative, but investigative — powers and the granting of inspection powers should ensure more effective control over those responsible for the implementation of the law. As a result, the cooperation of supervisory authorities would also become closer. In this regard, the Government is already preparing a comprehensive revision of the existing Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism and intends to put it into the legislative process this year. The amendments and additions that are under preparation are thus the result of the envisaged amendments to international acts, in the preparation of the amendment to the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the prevention of the use of the financial system for money laundering and terrorist financing, as well as the international standards already adopted in this area, are so-called FATF standards. Slovenia has already committed itself to bringing these standards into its legal order and to this will be dedicated to a novel in preparation. The changes envisaged are also due to the findings of the Office and the proposals of the primary supervisors and other state authorities, whose common objective is to increase the effectiveness of all stakeholders in the field of prevention and detection of money laundering and financing of terrorism. The changes envisaged will allow for closer cooperation with other primary supervisors, and in the framework of closer cooperation, we also want to enable faster exchange of data. Furthermore, it would like to increase the efficiency of the Office, particularly in the area of control and its cooperation with other primary supervisors, and we would therefore like to grant it inspection powers with the envisaged amendment of the law. The Government considers that changes to the law should be addressed in a thorough and methodical manner, because partial solutions create mistrust, legal uncertainty and doubts about the correct implementation of the law. In particular, it causes unnecessary conflicts with other laws, which ultimately leads to limited application of the law and, above all, the inability to implement it [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] and effective control. [[…]] For these reasons, although the Government partly agrees with the proposed amendment, it assesses that it is not complete and therefore suggests that it is not supported by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u97	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ms Jasmina Opec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! Today, when questions are rightly asked, who has put us in a situation where we are increasingly struggling to get through life; when we ask ourselves who has emptied our banks and who has exhausted our companies, no initiative leading to greater control over financial transactions is and cannot be rejected but priori. And it's similar to this law. We have the opportunity, together, to form one of the improvements in this area during the parliamentary process, including through this legislative proposal. It is true that the granting of investigative powers to the Anti-Money Laundering Office is a major step that slightly interferes with the system regime of the entire investigation and further criminal procedure, but on the other hand, we also find it very difficult to agree with the Government's view that the Office is established only to act as an administrative body within the Ministry of Finance as an intermediary between financial institutions and law enforcement authorities. We have far too many administrative authorities in our country, and all are too few bodies that are actually acting. In the Slovenian People's Party, we understand the intention of the proposer of this law as an attempt to strengthen the Anti-Money Laundering Office within the broader scope of its tasks, including in order to allow individual suspicious transactions and transactions to be reviewed more closely and in more detail. There is nothing wrong with this, according to our assessment, of course, if he is actively involved with other crime detection and prosecution authorities. In addition to the investigative powers, the law's proponents also propose an extension of the set of initiators who could address the Office with a written reasoned initiative to draw attention to certain identified irregularities related to financial flows. In this place, respected colleagues and colleagues, it is really difficult to understand what should be wrong with the Office's warning of an irregularity. Isn't this the end of the line of duty for all of us? Are there not certain public secrets regarding certain flows of money that we practically all know? They're published by all the media, and they're talked about by famous bankers and managers, and there's virtually no one to check those statements. In the end, no work shall be imposed on the Office outside the prescribed framework and may in no way harm them to obtain any additional information. However, it is true that the Office should be obliged to verify any such statement. In its opinion, the Government stated that it supported this legislative proposal at least at the point where regular reporting of the Office to the National Assembly was ensured. We estimate that this is already sufficient reason for the legislative proposal to continue its legislative path and that we are trying to proceed with a further procedure, one of the points to be completed in order to be acceptable to a wider circle of members of the National Assembly. In foreign financial transactions, they pay a lot of attention, including because most criminal activities are financed in this way, organised tax evasion, non-taxable capital flight abroad or tax havens. Similarly, similar offices abroad have more than just analytical roles, if not other, their cooperation with specialised investigators at a very high level. In the Slovenian People's Party, we support all efforts to strengthen the powers and efficiency of the Anti-Money Laundering Office and we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism at first reading. We estimate that it is a good enough basis for further work if only the government coalition shows enough will and desire to turn the positive aim of the proposal into practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u99	Thank you, too. Mrs Marija Plevčak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. Greetings to all present! We have before us a new law governing the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. In the introductory explanation, the applicant made clear the reasons and purpose for the introduction of this proposal, and I will therefore not repeat this. It is true that the proposal has been tabled by the opposition party and that is why we do not decide on the support or non-support of such proposals in our parliamentary group; the proposal is, in principle, opposition and therefore inappropriate for further consideration. No, no, no. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we examine each proposal and then take our stand. We have also discussed in this proposal in particular whether this proposal has any added value in relation to the established legal regime in relation to the actual situation. And which, what is this added value? At first glance, the proposed solutions do indicate an increase in the efficiency of the competent authority, the Anti-Money Laundering Office. This is mainly a solution to the increase in powers by extending investigative powers. Reporting not only to the Government but also to the National Assembly. Expansion of the round of incentives for the Office to begin at all with the collection and analysis of the documents at issue. But do all these solutions actually help to make money laundering and terrorist financing more effective and effective? In the DeSUS Group, we don't think so. Why? Because we are now assessing the current arrangements as appropriate and there is no reason for such a change. In fact, all organizations explicitly listed in the Law, namely banks, savings banks, pawnshops, lawyers, are obliged to follow the principles pursued by the Law. Secondly, the Office can now begin proceedings on the basis of the initiative of the police, the courts, the prosecutions, the Court of Auditors, the Customs Administration and others and we do not see the reason for the extension to the National Assembly, for example. Thirdly, with regard to additional investigative powers, we believe that additional employment in the Office and education should be required, which would certainly be an additional cost. The Office shall, in the event of an assessment of the suspicion of the existence of a criminal offence, transmit all the findings and documentation collected to the competent authorities, namely the police and the prosecution. However, they are expertly qualified for further actions, specifically for the commission of investigative actions. On the basis of the above, the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners on this proposal is negative.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u102	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Secretary of State, Mr Director! Money laundering is an operation that covers an illegal source of money and seemingly shows that money comes from legitimate transactions. Money and property arising from illegal acts of fraud, drug trafficking, counterfeiting of money and other criminal offences try to legalize the perpetrators by issuing fictitious invoices for the services provided or by prepayment of the services actually provided. In this way illegal money in the system is shown as money from legitimate transactions. Organized crime is often a step in its ingenuity and use of modern technologies before the judicial authorities. The fight against money laundering as one of the forms of organised crime is therefore one of the priorities within the European Union. In October last year, the European Parliament set up even a special committee dealing with organised crime, corruption and money laundering. In particular, it will identify the prevalence of the impact of organised crime in the European Union's social and economic system and make recommendations for legislative and possible other measures. Money laundering is also defined in our legal system as a crime. The detection and prosecution of money laundering offenders is very demanding, as the perpetrators usually divide money from illegal transactions into smaller amounts and disperse it across different organisations, businesses and countries, thus trying to erase its traces. The investigation of this criminal offence requires a lot of cooperation from different supervisory institutions, and often international cooperation. The financial institutions themselves have the greatest weight in detecting money laundering suspicions, through which various transactions are conducted, in particular banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions. In doing so, we stress that it is the legal duty of these organisations to carry out a customer review of each transaction over the amount of EUR 15 000. The Law on Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism has established a specific body to control the area of money laundering prevention. This is the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, which is organised within the Ministry of Finance. Its competence is to collect and analyse data on transactions where money laundering is suspected. These data shall be communicated to the Office by banks and other financial organisations. Under the current legislation, the Office has no jurisdiction to investigate the crime of money laundering, as investigating this crime is within the competence of the police and the State Prosecutor's Office. Under the current legislation, therefore, the Office has more or less some administrative powers. Such an arrangement, according to the Christian Democrats of New Slovenia, is almost inconvenient at the present time when the number of suspected offences of money laundering from year to year. The Anti-Money Laundering Office needs to be given additional powers, not only in the area of prevention, but also in the detection and investigation of suspected money laundering offences. This is not only due to the enormous increase in money laundering suspicions but also to the fact that the Office has the opportunity to obtain all the necessary information and data from banks and other financial organisations, as well as to have a professional cadre which has the necessary knowledge and qualifications to effectively disclose and investigate the suspected crime of money laundering. In this way, we will ensure that the country's work in investigating and prosecuting the crime of money laundering is significantly more effective, which is certainly in the interests of the State and Slovenia's commitment as members of the European Union. Members of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, we will therefore support or vote in favour of the proposed law being suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u103	Thank you. Ms Saša Kos will present the position of the Group of Positive Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present! The Group of Members and Members with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank has tabled in the legislative procedure a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism. With the proposed law, a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank wants to be given investigative powers to the competent Office of the Republic of Slovenia to prevent money laundering, and it shall be obliged to report to the National Assembly at least once a year, in addition to reporting to the Government on its work. It also proposes to extend the range of qualified initiators referred to in Article 60 of the current law, i.e. the incentives for the Office to collect and analyse data, information and documentation relating to a transaction or a person in the event of a suspicion of money laundering or terrorist financing, so an extended range of initiators for which the Office would start collecting, informing, documenting and analysing data and information would thus be new, in addition to the existing qualified applicants – courts, the State Prosecutor's Office, the Police, the OASA, the Court of Auditors, the KPK, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Budgetary Control and the National Assembly, that is, its working bodies and also the investigative commissions of the National Assembly, [[…]] Like the Government in the Positive Slovenia Group, we follow the belief that more efficient work of the Office requires finding solutions and proposing such amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism, which will contribute to the more efficient work of the Office, whose task it is, I reiterate that information concerning a transaction or a person suspected of money laundering or terrorist financing is collected, informed, documented and analysed. These amendments and additions to legislation must be considered and, last but not least, coherent both with directives and with other international standards. In its opinion, the Government also stated that it is seeking to ensure greater efficiency of the Office by also providing the Office with inspection powers and not investigative powers, as proposed by the Group of Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Tank. The essential difference between inspection and investigation powers. When we speak of inspection powers, we have in mind such powers as those intended to review and control the implementation of the provisions of the law, and in the case of investigative powers, it is a matter of investigating the specific suspicion of money laundering or terrorist financing, which is suspected by a specific natural person. This is certainly among the police and the prosecution's tasks, so not the Office. The Government also stated in its opinion that it is in this regard preparing a comprehensive revision of the existing Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism, which it intends to submit to the legislative procedure before the end of this year. This is, of course, the reason why Members and Members of Positive Slovenia will not support the bill despite agreeing that changes are necessary to increase the effectiveness of preventing and detecting suspicions of money laundering and terrorist financing. From the Government, the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia expects that changes as promised will be addressed with all due diligence, thorough and methodical and legislative procedure, and will introduce a comprehensive amendment to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism, which will also increase the effectiveness of the Office through the appropriate extension of powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u105	Thank you, too. Mr Ivan Grill will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u106	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. Dear representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! The bill we have written and tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party is indeed a well-meaning attempt to make the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism more effective and more successful in detecting and prosecuting money laundering offences, because, unfortunately, in Slovenia, we also face illegal and even criminal acts that abuse the financial system, either to cover the origin of money or property that originates from any criminal offence, either to collect and redirect illegal or even legal means for the purpose of terrorism. The Office of the Republic of Slovenia is responsible for the control and detection of such acts in Slovenia, under the current legislation, for the prevention of money laundering, which is only an administrative body within the Ministry of Finance and acts as an intermediary between financial system institutions on the one hand, and for the detection and prosecution of criminal offences on the other. In accordance with the powers provided for by the Law, the Office shall merely analyse the reported suspicious transactions and identify possible grounds for suspecting money laundering or terrorist financing or other criminal offences. However, any such information obtained and collected may then be sent as a notification or information to the competent authorities for further consideration. The Office may begin to collect and analyse data on the reasoned written initiative of the Court, the State Prosecutor's Office, the Police, the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency, the Security Intelligence Service of the Ministry of Defence, the Court of Auditors, the Anti-Corruption Authority, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Budgetary Control and the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. That is, where there are grounds for suspicion of money laundering or terrorist financing for a transaction or a person. According to the Slovenian Democratic Party, this is not enough. In our work in recent years, we have been able to find that there have been cases that have been dealt with at meetings of the National Assembly or also of the home work bodies or even of the commission of inquiry, where it has been evident that there are suspicions of such crimes and that the National Assembly and its authorities have not been able to be a qualified proposer. We are therefore confident and also of the opinion that a set of qualified initiators who would propose to the Office proposals for persons who would then be investigated by the Office should be broader than it is now. We have therefore also proposed in the SDS that qualified applicants be also located as the National Assembly, investigative commissions and home labour bodies. We are also of the opinion that it would be justified and reasonable for the Office to report on its work at least once a year to the National Assembly and not only to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We are also of the opinion in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the powers with which the Office is now operating under the current legislation are too narrow and that this Office should therefore be empowered to carry out the investigation task and the role. We are confident that this will make the Office's operation more effective in disclosing the perpetrators and that the investigation will be much faster. In view of all the necessary changes that this bill also contains, we will also support it as a proposal for the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u107	Thank you, too. Mr Matevž Frangež will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u108	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We fully associate ourselves with the position put forward by the State Secretary, i.e. the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We would like to add to this the need for the Government to fully regulate this area and approach the systematic amendment of the law, and in this amendment should also make sense to summarise the good intentions of the proposer. However, we will not support the social democrats in this attempt to propose a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u109	Thank you. Mr Marko Pavlisič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, distinguished colleague, respected colleague! The Law on Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism needs some changes. And in the Government's view of this proposal, which we are considering today, this is clearly expressed, as is the intention of the Government to draw up a comprehensive amendment this year. Amendments that will contribute to the more efficient work of the Anti-Money Laundering Office. In order to prosecute crime, including in the area of money laundering and terrorist financing, the police and the prosecutor's office are responsible in Slovenia for carrying out appropriate investigative procedures which have produced fruit in recent months. The essence of effective work is specialisation. In contrast to this is a saying: a lot of grandmothers, a bald child. Instead of giving the Office the additional investigative powers already vested in the police and the prosecution, it is necessary to ensure that those who already have them exercise them effectively and consistently. The National Assembly is a legislative branch of power, which already has its own investigative commission, and it is right that, in the sense of the already mentioned specialisation, which is the basis of effective work, the National Assembly should focus primarily on its primary role. It's a legislative role. In the Civil Gazette, we will wait on the Government's proposal to regulate this area, and by then we will be focusing on much more acute problems in this country. Needful reforms in several areas, increasing transparency in the operations of public authorities and public enterprises and ensuring respect for the rule of law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u111	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members, first of all a proposaler, mag. Spread out. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to draw a little more attention to some of the things that this law brings, and of course also to the Government's position, particularly in the first place, by concealing the powers of the various authorities and so on. I do not believe that there would be overlap between the authorities, especially if it were easy to serve or the competent authorities, their superiors could actually separate it. I do not think that there is any problem if the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Office receives investigative powers and, ultimately, some of the persons currently working in this area within the police or other bodies can simply operate within the Office. Why within the Office? Because this makes it easy for us to optimize the whole process. As we said, the Office acquires and analyzes certain information, and on this basis is transmitted most often to the Bank of Slovenia and the police, in short, also to other authorities, and, after all, it is, I will now say ugly, but do not take this literally, simply post office. It simply receives information, then selects it and sends it to other authorities. With this addition to the law, the Office would simply have been given investigative powers to investigate the cases and there are still more of these cases, including on the basis of the 2012 business analysis, which is publicly available, and could actually have already done certain investigative actions. While I am pleased that the Government says in its opinion, "We will now fully arrange this and give the Office inspection powers." Excellent, inspection powers. What are investigative powers? Here, too, I would like to hear from the representatives of the Government the difference between investigative powers and inspection powers. And not just that. Are the investigative powers part of the inspection powers? In other words, is the investigation procedure part of the inspection procedure? In fact, this is a pre-inspection procedure according to my conduct, at least so in some other areas. Since the tax procedure was also mentioned, the tax investigation was always carried out before the inspection procedure. It may be independent, may be independent and may be terminated but may continue in the inspection procedure. For this reason, I am pleased that the Government will give the inspection powers to the Office and will probably have to give the Office part of the investigative powers, because otherwise the Office will be able to return to the toothless tiger. After all, we had a system in the tax system until 2006 where the Tax Administration had no investigative powers. She did not have investigative powers, which, of course, means that she could not investigate an individual taxpayer or break the law or not. In other words, the tax administration's decisions were invalid in the case of an inspector sitting in a tavern watching whether or not they actually issued invoices in this inn because he did not have investigative powers. And if we now draw an analogy with the Office, then we can say that even now it will not be able to have inspection powers without investigative powers, or that it will actually be a toothless tiger. For this reason, I propose that if there is no problem with the Office's inspection powers, the procedure may be followed by an inspection powers which it may already have, under the General Administrative Procedure Act, and therefore there are no problems and no problems. After all, this Office would make it more efficient, more efficient and, above all, would not be a mailbox, I am speaking symbolically once again just to analyze, resort and give the data to other institutions. Thus, in my view and in my opinion, investigative powers may also be part of the inspection powers. When we talk about the fact that the National Assembly should also have a part of the possibility of alerting the Office to certain transactions, we are not thinking of doing anything here to evaluate or otherwise evaluate individual transactions. No, no, no. It is, of course, appropriate that the National Assembly is also officially aware of the work of the Office, and I think that this is accepted by the Government as well. After all, ladies and gentlemen, this is nothing more than for the Office to be made more effective, more successful, there is fewer duplication in the state administration, less organisational work between the various parts of the state administration, the Office, the police, the prosecution, customs and so on, and more things are done in one part, and on the one for which it is actually the most qualified and therefore has all the data, and on the other hand it also has the staff and experts provided. However, if these investigative powers require an increase in the number of people in the Office, it is possible to do so from other state authorities, the police, customs, in any event, in short, from other authorities. Once again, I am pleased that we will now also go to the inspection that the office will have an inspection, but it will probably have part of the investigation as part of the inspection. I highly doubt that the inspection itself will have no such effect. I therefore propose that this law be adopted and supplemented in further consideration by allowing the Office to be subject to inspection. Finally, we will have a law, less money laundering, less financing for terrorism and a successful basis for dealing with it and fighting it in international contexts.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u113	Thank you. I give my word to a representative of the government, mag. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u114	Thank you so much for saying that. In view of the issue specifically raised, let me explain further. The investigation of the Office, as set out in Article 3 of the proposed law, is an investigation as part of a verification of the grounds for suspicion that a crime of money laundering has been committed. So it's an investigation into the pre-trial procedure to determine the existence of a criminal offence. And this investigation is something completely different than a tax investigation. The tax investigation or investigation under the customs procedure is an integral part of the administrative work. It's not a criminal offense. It's an administrative job. In this context, there are also divergent actions under investigation and inspection powers. Inspection powers are the powers exercised by the administrative authorities in the performance of their administrative tasks, and this is also done by the Office and we want to strengthen the Office primarily here. These powers are those which, in our view, are missing and need to be further specified. The additional question raised by the Office's proposal for an investigation is also a matter of possible entanglement of the procedure. We know that the procedure for verifying the existence of a criminal offence is an extremely sensitive procedure, which is why, in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act, special cauldrons are established, special restrictions under which certain authorities can carry out an investigation at all, either that is the order of the court or that they are any other cauldrons. How's it going in this case? However, it is a matter of investigating the existence of a criminal offence. For a brief period of time, the powers of the National Assembly. It is undeniable that the National Assembly and the working bodies of the National Assembly are already obliged, under the current legislation, to conclude that there is a suspicion that a particular money laundering transaction could be carried out, to notify either the Office or the law enforcement authorities. We are all under suspicion of a criminal offence and, of course, it is a matter for the competent authority to make it a law enforcement body, and it is within the authority of that authority to assess or investigate whether the circumstances are such that, according to the expert opinion of the Office or the law enforcement authority, there are indications on which further activities are not necessary. So this part of the possibility is guaranteed to the National Assembly today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u115	Thank you. I could get the word "magic." Andrej Vizjak. [[He's not here.]] The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin, prepare Mr. Matevž Frangež. Here you go, Mr. Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we have a proposal for a first reading of the law. And look at the interesting situation. I think that, of course, the proposaler has very well proposed the law and it is not possible for the law to be adopted. Why not? Because the government is going to make a phenomenal proposal for a different law. Now I'm going to tell you what I think of such phenomenal suggestions. History. We just need to learn something from the past. The last major fiasco of a phenomenal law is the Real Estate Tax Act prepared by the Government, which has several legal doctors in this government. Did they not find out what the Constitutional Court had found — because they went to the same law schools — that everything was wrong? And why don't the government step in front of the motioner and say, "You've prepared a proposal for a first-reading law and we're going to improve it together."? It's not possible, is it? That's not possible. Look. And that's a cancer wound to what we're doing. And the next government will come. Maybe it'll be different, because by then we're going to be completely bankrupt. That's the problem. I don't see a problem with the bill. Maybe it's not the best part, but that's why we're here to fix it. But so that some other proponents don't know what phenomenal laws they're proposing, see Not because that's what I'm saying. [[…]] You see the laws we have. Weak. Catastrophely ill, by which the economy is unable to work, the population is hard to live on, amassed to the end and so on [[..]] But I think that's the next thing that's connected to this. We can make any kind of law. Any kind of marriage. If we behave as we did the day before yesterday, that we have a system of corruption on our hands, for a million €400,000, where it has actually been shown transparently that the study done is worth 50,000 euros, not a million €, 400, no law will help us, because the National Assembly rules corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Horvat could get the word. [[He's not here.]] The next debater could be Mr Richard Braniselj. [[He's not here.]] Mrs. Romana Tomc has the word to prepare himself for the mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go, Mrs. Tomc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. I very much agree with you, Sir Vogrin. I think we could overcome this division once in this country into the good solutions proposed by the Government and the bad solutions proposed by the opposition. And in this context it would also be worth supporting this law that we have proposed because it brings improvements to the field of regulation or the problems of preventing money laundering in Slovenia. And if necessary, of course, the Government or the coalition can, with its additional proposals, correct this proposal, so that we can eventually get some law that would help prevent money laundering or fight money laundering more effectively. I have here before us the last available report on the work of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia to prevent money laundering relating to 2012. It says here it's from the report, and unfortunately there's no report. So now you've helped me with what's written here in the report. And towards the end of this data or reports we actually get the most interesting data that shows us why it is in our country, as it is. You will probably agree with me that any and any Office in this country is free of charge if there is no effective solution in the end. In this case, an effective solution is the conviction of those who committed criminal acts. I'll talk a little easier. And you will not believe that in 17 years of operation of the Anti-Money Laundering Office we have the effect of 9 judicial judgments. Nine. In the case of a total of 265 cases, the Office is commended for the fact that during the period 1995 to 2012, the Office has been responsible for a total of 265 cases in respect of the alleged suspicions of the crime service because the Office has forwarded these data further to the competent authorities, to the police, to the prosecution and so on, indicating some efficiency of the Office. But this efficiency is only administrative, as is the Office itself. He doesn't have any smart powers. There's nothing he can do. It shall propose some proposals further to the relevant authorities, which shall deal with them and judge them, as they decide. Finally, as I said, in all these 17 or 18 years, nine convictions. Look, we don't have a problem in this country if we have nine convictions in 18 years. One for two years. I think we can end the Honorary Office because we think that we can pour so little efficiency somewhere else, maybe into the tax office, and they'll be more effective there. And the Office here in this report also boasts that, compared to last year, the number of judicial judgments has increased by almost 100%. Super efficiency, from 5 to 9. Dear Director, I believe that this is not easy to listen to, but it does not fly to you as Director of the Office, nor to the Office as an institution. For our point of amending the law is precisely that we give the Office more power to be more effective. However, if I return to the first, second, or any side of this report, we will also find some interesting information. The office does a lot of work, but I've got a lot of translation data and there. Interestingly, in 2012 there were cash transactions in the Republic of Slovenia, which were in cash more than 30 000 euros per billion and a half. There were 15,000 such transactions. More interesting than this information is the figure on the transfer of more than 30,000 euros to countries where money laundering is more likely to occur. Here, according to expectations, Cyprus and Turkey appear on the list of 34 countries in which these remittances were made or transactions were made. 27% of all remittances were made in Cyprus and so on. See, this first page of the report and the data on the 9 legal convictions just speaks for themselves. This country, not the Office, but the state as such, including the police, the prosecution and, of course, the judiciary, is completely ineffective in the prosecution of these crimes. And I think it would be right for all of us to take a step forward together, even though I believe that we have far more important problems in this country than we do now, but this amendment of the law is also going in the direction of improving the system regime in this area and would be worth supporting. And once again, to conclude, I agree with Mr Vogrin, we continue to repeat this, all that the opposition proposes is disgraceful and bad and the government will produce better systemic and comprehensive solutions. While we do not know what these systemic and comprehensive solutions are, in the past days we have had the opportunity to see when, in the four most important elements of the real estate law, this law was repealed and thus repealed. Not in one minor small segment, but in the four main categories that even keep the marriage together. It would be good if the government led by the President of the Government, who can very often use a lot of readings here and tell us how we do not understand how we are wrong and how we do not really know what it is, perhaps even listen to such solutions, which are very well-intentioned, in fact, not politically at all as burdensome as it would be for anyone to be disputed. It is essentially professional matters, improve them with your suggestions, as the Secretary of State has already mentioned, in which direction it would be worth thinking about, and here we can take one step further together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u119	Thank you, too. I could get the word "magic." Marco Pogačnik. [[He's not here.]] Mr Franz Pukšič has the floor, and Mrs Alenka Jeraj is preparing. Here you go, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! Any change in legislation in this country, which would suggest that thieves should be seized of property to prevent money laundering, corruption and theft today, as our Member has already said in the position of the Group of Members, when people wonder who is the one who put them in such a position that they do not have bread, that they do not have to survive, that young people are unemployed and so on, is pointless. Don't bullshit him! Colleagues from the SDS, what did you expect them to support in the coalition? Don't be naive. It can't happen. Look! Saturday, May 29th, in Del, Second package of complaints against Jankovic and the company. And then when you read it, it's a total criminal. You start with Energetica Ljubljana, which is owned by the Municipality of Ljubljana. You're coming to Grep. Grep and the Municipality of Ljubljana built Stožice, i.e. together Energetics, the Municipality of Ljubljana and the mayor. Base Dante, whose director and owner are employed in Elekta, whose director and owner is his son, the mayor's son, Damjan Jankovic. Then you come to KLM investments, the Zoran Jankovic family company, his family. And at the end of 100,000 euros in pocket, name and surname, on the private account of Zoran Jankovic. What are you stupid enough to go and destroy a network like this, shut it down? Is that what would happen with the amendment of the legislation? God forbid! How will they live? Do you know how long it takes them to control their system so they can keep working? And, of course, it says here that with the NPU, they reported that, because of reasonable suspicion, the abuse of position and money laundering and money laundering, people were being accused. Not only is it systemic corruption, but even the KPK found out two years ago. And what has happened until today? And what colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party propose by amending this law on the Anti-Money Laundering Office would only achieve by obtaining one professional institution. Because it's a professional institution. Today he's just collecting, collecting data together and forwarding it forward. These are qualified people, and I think that the law should still be upgraded in connection with the police and the prosecution, i.e. only to be upgraded in order to prepare certain documentation, not to collect, but to prepare, and then, of course, to file complaints. By supplementing the law, it may be the office itself or the prosecution, the police or anyone else. In short, we'd take it one step further. But you know, then it would have happened that the prosecution and the judiciary would have already done things and of course would have only made decisions about them, but not that they had to prepare and investigate everything first. This is why, as some in the parliamentary groups have today spoken, people are being re-employed, new education and so on. If such a network were to be exposed See, it was found that a fictitious contract of EUR 50 million. [[…]] Then forcing Energy to sign a contract with Grep for the sale of land owned by the Municipality of Ljubljana. Grep only had building rights. I mean, hello? Hello?Oh, my God! Two years, two years from that, since we've been talking about what the organs are doing, but I believe they can't because they're obviously too small because they have too little knowledge. In doing so, we would complement this speed and this way of preventing it faster and more effectively. But the problem is that the system must be so designed, so set that it is ineffective and unsuccessful. Just like Tomce's colleague said. How much? A couple of judgements. Are you a little funny? But those who warn us about it, who are talking about it, will eventually get one way or another after the scruples just to silence us, discredit us, and so on. This has been happening to us recently with my colleague Jerovšek, this has been happening to me for two years through the KPK, which has not found out in one word, with one word to break the Law on Integrity and Corruption, but they just think that they should have some kind of public order, something like that – systemic corruption. And my colleague Möderndorfer, who invited me, if I appreciate the KPK so much, to step down. When's he gonna ask his mayor to step down? I'll support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u121	Thank you. Alenka Jeraj could have a word. [[She's not here.]] Mr. Jože Tanko could get the next word. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Ivan Grill, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Look, as I said in the position of the Group of Members, this law is well-intentioned. And I think that there is no reason for us to try to share in the debate here too, because many times in the debate we all find that we want to do something to make sure that in the case of corruption and various such illegalities, including in the case of the adoption of money and not least in the case of the financing of terrorism, which is also being carried out in this way, we try to end it or to limit it. But the position of the Government and also the coalition positions of the parliamentary groups shows that you will do everything you can to ensure that nothing is done in this area. I'm sorry. Why? I mean, there's really no time for us to play around here, but we're waiting for a government proposal for this law, which the Secretary of State has announced, which is supposed to set up this matter in its entirety. Now we can adopt this law within a month and give the office the authority to start working more effectively, but you can still have time if you could not already through the amendments in this text of the articles introduce those envisaged changes. If that were not possible, this law could change. We also amended the real estate tax law by means of a quick procedure when it turned out that something was contrary to what was being followed at the time. So if there was a serious purpose here, this could be accepted and also corrected accordingly. In the State Secretary's explanation that one of the unacceptable reasons for them to expand the number of qualified applicants or initiators for the initiation of certain investigations is that this violates the principle of the division of power. Why, Madam Secretary of State? Even now, various branches of government are actually cooperating. The Court is another branch of power, such as the executive branch, and may be a motioner. It is true that I do not wish to challenge this, but why not be the National Assembly or the home work bodies and even more the investigative commission. I don't know if you remember, since you were already a secretary of state in the previous term, how many times have we had trouble getting some very important information through the commission of inquiry, which was also related to various crimes, including money laundering? And I really don't see a valid and valid reason why we can't be the National Assembly, the parent labour bodies and also the commission of inquiry. It doesn't involve anything in any of the powers. We give only possible important information or clues for them, so this is really well-intentioned. It was also the view of the DeSUS Group that they wanted something to be done in this area, but that the existing legislation currently in force for this area agreed and did not see the need for amendment. I wonder if, when you give a new amendment to the law, as you have announced, DeSUS will also say that it agrees with the existing one, or if the Government will change its opinion and go in support of it. We are truly artists in Slovenia, very resourceful, that we are also in many laws and also in the design of various institutions, offices, agencies – to make all of this so ineffective that we cannot once begin to regulate the areas of financial crime and corruption. Really. And I'm sure people are disgusted when they see how everything is done so nothing can be done. And then, of course, we are criticized by all Members, including us who are in opposition. How many times do I get an email where all bile and anger individuals or individuals are also pouring on us Members, that we are all the same, that we are part of this system, that we do nothing and so on. Look, that's not true, that's not true. If there is a bit of good will and willingness here, let us let this law go through the first reading forward, and, wherever possible, with those foretold changes that the Secretary of State has announced, be supplemented and adopted. Come on, I am convinced that it is also likely that the director of this opinion, at least I hope that it will make it much easier and more effective for him or the institution he runs, to enable them to lift up and also mechanisms or tools so that it can function better, not that they call it paper tigers, such as many other institutions. So all those pre-election promises that were on the electoral campaign in 2011, as almost all the parties that had run for office announced the fight against corruption, against financial crime, where it is already known that this has been present in Slovenia since the independence of the country, increasingly – everyone has somehow advocated the introduction of financial police and various such institutions, which will do something better. Unfortunately, nothing can be done like that, with this law that you won't let go. Similarly, the law has been adopted in a way that does not give those desired and necessary effects on access to public information, where it protects all those who have so far done various machinations and places – not hundreds of euros, but millions of euros. Nothing has happened or you've screwed up the marriage so much that it's not for anywhere, and also this law is not what Slovenia would need. We have already announced a month ago when the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism, where only a reduction in the allowed amount, where services and goods can be paid in cash, announced these amendments or that this law needs to be supplemented in this respect. Unfortunately, there was no hearing. I don't understand, I really don't understand the government or the coalition, that they don't want to support such a well-intentioned and constructive bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u123	Thank you, too. Does he want a word maybe with the government? He does. The word has magic. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u124	Thank you very much. I can agree that the 9 judicial judgments in the field of money laundering prevention in the past years of the Office's operation are a relatively poor result and that it should be improved. However, this result is not only the result of the work of the Office and the exercise of its powers, not only the result of the work of the law enforcement authorities, but also the result of the work of the judicial authorities. For 2013, I can provide you with information that there are 86 cases in the investigation or the indictment and 16 convictions have been handed down by the courts in 2013, but they are not yet legally binding because the appeal proceedings are still pending. At first glance, there is a very low number of convictions, but if we are trying to compare this data with data available from other countries, especially data on the number of convictions per population, then we can find that the results in detecting and punishing crimes, preventing money laundering are comparable to findings or results in other European countries. While we are talking about the mandate of the office and the tasks it must have, we must not only pay attention to the international standards by which the Office must work. Offices in other European countries also do not have investigative powers within their respective tasks. Once again, I would like to point out, with regard to the role of the National Assembly, that it is undeniable that the National Assembly may, at any time under existing legislation, draw the attention of the Office to certain indications, to data, to information on the existence of suspected money laundering, and that the Office will take such information into account, taking into account information provided by a number of other authorities, institutions and individuals reporting such data to the Office. However, the persons or institutions referred to in Article 60 shall be the institutions which cooperate with the Office in investigating or determining whether there is a suspicion of a crime of money laundering or carrying out certain activities in this regard — for example, the customs administration controls the transfer of cash across the national border or across the customs line and therefore has a special situation in this context. However, it is quite different that the National Assembly requires the Office to have the information that the National Assembly needs in its work or in the work of individual working bodies, and this addition to Article 60 does not address this issue. As far as cash business is concerned. Doing business with cash on its own is not a crime. The very possession of cash is not a crime in itself. However, cash transactions are recognised as one of those practices where the risk of money laundering is increased and therefore the Office pays particular attention to this work. And if we are already talking about the effectiveness of preventing money laundering and financing of terrorism and other forms of illegal practices related to so-called financial or economic crime, we must also distinguish between what are inefficiencies caused by inadequate or too often amended legislation, which must be done in the field of law enforcement and does not fall within the legislative procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u125	Thank you, too. Replica, Mrs. Romana Tomc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that again. I would just like to point out once again, Madam Secretary of State, that I have not at all attacked the inefficiency of the work of the Office, but I am well aware that in the number, how many legal judgments there are, very much depends primarily on the other authorities, not so much on the office itself, which I think is 265 cases. In 18 years, 265 cases were referred by the Office to other authorities. There were 647 people involved, and of these, 9 are legally convicted. However, let me say something that I previously forgot from this table, and I think it is more important for me to show what kind of system we have and how very inefficient we have in Slovenia. If 9 were legally convicted, there were 24 cases where there was a withdrawal from persecution or a statute of limitations. Cases in 24 cases have become obsolete in the courts. And in these 24 cases, 70 people got out of justice. 70 people suspected of money laundering and terrorist financing. These are the data derived from the report of the Anti-Money Laundering Office. And that's something we have to worry about here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u127	Thank you. Would you like to speak to the proposer? Mag. Andrei Shircelj, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Slovenian Democratic Party was aware of the problems with money laundering in Slovenia when preparing this law. The Slovenian Democratic Party analysed not only the inflows and outflows of money, but also analysed the functioning of the competent authorities as to how they prevent the flow of money abroad and what should be done to channel money abroad so that money laundering could simply be reduced. Of course, it also came to the law on money laundering prevention and simply found that the current activity of the office does not follow currents in Slovenia and not flows concerning money laundering abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, from Slovenia, it has gone abroad into the tax havens of €52 billion. These are very serious data that independent institutions show in their studies and analyses. However, we cannot agree with us that we cannot give additional powers to the office that is competent to control this and to act if it is actually money laundering here. We cannot give additional powers because the current coalition does not want to be defined until money laundering needs to be prevented. This is also related to taxes and taxation of this money. But, ladies and gentlemen, 52 billion has gone from Slovenia to black money, untaxed money. Taking an average rate of 30% means 16 billion. The 16 billion are two state budgets. Because we don't know or because we don't want or because the coalition doesn't want to take some solutions that are completely professional, which are completely, if you want, even technical ones that are already checked in other countries, the money is leaking, which is why there is a deficit in the budget, which is why we owe ourselves and, of course, we are introducing new taxes that are already predicted that this will be VAT now that the property tax has fallen. But, ladies and gentlemen, do you want to face the fact that 52 billion euros have been drained from Slovenia? €52 billion is 6 state budgets. And here you can peacefully reject the proposals of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which are going in the direction of stopping this outflow of money. But you don't do anything to stop it. Not only reject proposals because they are from the Slovenian Democratic Party. It is likely that today the situation in the country is such that a prioritisation of laws that are of a professional nature in the direction that it will be better in this country, in particular for citizens and citizens, to avoid crime, will be rejected. You can no longer, because these laws are well-intentioned, absolutely nothing ideological, but they are fighting, providing the basis for fighting crime in Slovenia. And if we're talking about 52 billion, then we should also consider talking about pensions, social contributions, social benefits and higher taxation. Now we're talking about the 52 billion that went, and probably every day it's another million, two or five because we don't have properly organised services in Slovenia. And the job that is most responsible for preventing money laundering and preventing money laundering is an office that is a toothless tiger who does not have the authority to do so today, and when we propose an investigation procedure to give to this office, we can defend ourselves: because the government will do it this year. How much money will flow into the tax havens this year? How much money will flow to other countries? And we're not gonna do anything. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you reconsider changing your position on this law a little bit and that you adopt it in order to complement it in further procedures, including through the inspections referred to by the Government's representative, complement it with inspection procedures to make the government more effective, and this Office and the Ministry of Finance. However, if you reject any well-intentioned proposals by the Slovenian Democratic Party only because the proposal has been prepared by the Slovenian Democratic Party, you must know that you have full responsibility for the situation in the country and also for the financial situation in the country. And also that the government of Alenka Bratušek has rejected this law, falls within its jurisdiction, but also under its responsibility, and, of course, this government, the Ministry of Finance, will also be responsible for not having enough money when it comes with higher taxes to this parliament when it comes with a raise in VAT. 52 billion went from Slovenia to money, ladies and gentlemen. It's hard to imagine what the sum of 52 billion is. And us and you and nothing. We make a bill, you don't do anything, you just reject it. The government rejects it because there is no real signature on this law. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you consider this proposal before the vote and that you may do something good for citizens and citizens when voting, that they will not be constantly witnessing only higher taxes and that they will not also witness that the benefits will begin to decline and that pensions will begin to fall, as announced by Minister Chufer. For when we talk about those measures, we will not be able to go beyond the fact that you have rejected this law and that millions and billions are still leaving the country because you do not give any office the authority to increase the effectiveness of control.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Since there is still some time left to discuss and, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure, we can make a time-sharing exercise, I wonder if anyone else would like to discuss it. There's still a wish, so I'm just gonna open up an opportunity to apply. Check-in is on, please. We have two other panellists reported. A representative of the Government also applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! In order for the Anti-Money Laundering Office, which has and should play a decisive role or an important role, to become more effective, our client has prepared this law, which gives the authority and authority to this office not to paper or toothless tigers forward, and thus I do not mean bad for the current leadership of this office, because I see that they have improved. Because, as I recall, under Mr Strolig there was no legal conviction if I had a good memory of that report. Of course, the government opposes this because it systematically protects certain persons in this country who are dedicated. The fact that this is such a sensitive area in this country is also responsible for the fact that in the former country, at the end of the day, there was a systematic, systematic, systematic state money laundering through Udba, through the community companies in Celovac and Trieste – we remember SAFTI and all of these. And all those people who worked both at the Udba and at these companies then went to financial institutions, to our banks, and they made a lot of money for this bank robbery today. And of course they can also have a defense that doesn't happen – here's the bribe, there's a little free money to give and so on. This is why they are already in the then executive council under Shinigoi – Rigelnik was the vice-president, who is so famous today, and I think that one of the co-owners of the State Secretary was in that executive world, but that is not important – they were talking about a phenomenal law that would do something here and nothing happened. We remember when a bank associate discovered that Mr. Kršnik was laundering money in Slovenj Gradec. Then the director of the bank of Maribor threw him out of office. They never took him back, not Mr Kovacic or anyone, because it was a sin because the official figured out that money was being laundered. And look, before the 2011 elections, I don't think Dursa's then director told me in an interview that there were more than 10,000 transfers into tax havens and I don't know what millions, I didn't remember. And the elections stopped, they didn't threaten, and of course nothing went wrong. And we want to make a tool so that something can go on here. Just as they threatened everyone, some of them were thrown out of the office, so they threaten us Members, who are principled, who have no butter on our heads and we are loud against bank robbery, loud against money laundering, loud against closing the archives of the Udba, which is connected, they rob with the archives of the Udba. But let's leave these threats alone. Such Members should also be silenced. And unless it's different, unless we respond to these threats, the journalistic discrediting mycelium of the Udba and the younger journalists who grew up on this mitcela, with the help of some, they invent different scenarios. Colleague Dimitrovski made a script, and she trapped me. She brought the writer to the investigative office, not those members. For the first time, I was a substitute member, and I faithfully did my job. And of course, God forbid, I said that I condemn some who in Maribor made a replica of 1941 under the Nazis, as my father was imprisoned by the Nazis. It was a phenomenal sin. And this micellium is now working a media coup and threatening those of us who are honest, who have no butter on our heads, who in other ways cannot silence us. Failure to accept this law, opposition to this law has the same basis. Same base. These are the circles that control many Members as well. And because of that, colleagues and colleagues, people will get to know and know, and if this discrediting mycelium is still so active and it's still working on the pogrom. They'll know who the honest Members are, who knowingly fought for which part of the current coalition is in the positions of those [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Now he has the word, Mr. Joseph Horvat. He is also followed by a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer after five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. First of all, my apologies for not being here in the hall when I was called to the debate. However, I searched the office and analysed the data on the publication of the financial transactions published by the Office, i.e. I came up with interesting figures requiring analysis, of course. In fact, the transactions published under Article 38(2) of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism, and I have found that in this year's year, by 31 March, the following sums have been made available to the countries where the Office says that in the case of remittances in this country, the following sums, namely, the good 172 thousand UK pounds, $83.5 million, I am talking about the first quarter of this year, 3.3 million Turkish lire and 44.6 million euros. As it is said, the data itself do not mean anything, but they are remittances to countries where the Office says that the risk of money laundering may be greater. This debate today, I believe, is more than necessary and more useful, in my firm conviction and in the conviction of the Christian Democrats. I believe that if it is true that the Government has announced that it is preparing a new law, that some comments and opinions from today's debate will be incorporated into this law. Finally, we also propose to consider the new status of the Anti-Money Laundering Office. Is this right and right that it is a body within the Ministry of Finance and as such must be a toothless tiger? What if we put him under the police force and put his teeth in it? Is there something wrong with that? Probably not. We propose that further powers should also be given to this office. Let me remind you that the European Commission and the other European institutions are discussing much more stringent rules in response to new threats to money laundering and terrorist financing. This is what I think the European Parliament discussed on 11 February this year when it came to the proposal for a directive, and I believe that if the new legislation comes from the Government, it will also take that into account. In particular, the new Directive allows for the following. I'm just gonna read something because I don't have enough time. In fact, it devotes more attention to increasing the clarity and transparency of the rules on customer due diligence, in order to establish appropriate control mechanisms and procedures that ensure better customer knowledge and a better understanding of the nature of their business and so on, and, interestingly, to extend from the provisions dealing with politically exposed persons, for example, persons who may pose a greater risk due to the political positions they occupy. One of such Slovenian politicians was talked about before me by his colleague Pukšič. So, I conclude by calling on all of us to consider whether the status of the Anti-Money Laundering Office, which is a body within the Ministry of Finance, is good and only optimal or perhaps should be relocated. In my firm belief, however, we should give him greater authority to be more than just a toothless tiger. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Also a representative of the Magnificent Government. Varying Officer, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u134	Thank you very much again for your word. In fact, the debate is much broader than the proposal for a text of the law. The talk was about 52 billion remittances in jurisdictions that we consider tax havens. The talk was about remittances to countries or areas where the Office estimates that there are greater risks of money laundering. I must say that I do not know on what basis or with what argument the number 52 billion is pouring into tax havens and we cannot say that it is money from which no tax is paid, which the person pointing to this money is referring to this kind of jurisdiction. The tax administration, which conducts its procedures independently of the Anti-Money Laundering Office, shall take care of and endeavours to obtain data on such remittances and shall also give or issue a decision on the subsequent assessment of the tax. Last year alone, tax rulings were issued in this connection for more than 9 million additional taxes charged. However, with regard to data published by the Anti-Money Laundering Office in respect of remittances in certain jurisdictions, it should be said that these amounts represent any remittances, including remittances for goods actually delivered or services actually provided in those jurisdictions. Last but not least, it is a matter of countries or areas that are, for example, highly touristic, and on this list we could easily find all Slovenian tourist agencies leading tourists to such countries, but we cannot say that they are illegal or at best suspicious transactions. For this reason, I would like to conclude that we need to be careful and reasonable when we consider what powers the Office needs to be able to act effectively and, on the other hand, how it can properly implement the legislation already in force. My assessment is that we need to focus on other implementation in particular, and that is why the State or Government has also strengthened the Office as part of measures to strengthen the fight against corruption and illegal behaviour in the area of financial and economic activity and has enabled it to employ an additional 4 people to increase such efficiency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u135	Thank you very much. On behalf of the proposalr, Mr Šircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u136	Thank you very much. The Sag Harbor Group study found that more than 52 billion have been drained from Slovenia into tax havens, which was discussed in the State Council. On 14 March 2014 or on 13 March 2014, this was the case in the State Council. I think the director and some others were present at this presentation, and this is the study we are talking about now. This money could be less or less. However, this information is not made up and such information should be used to ring bells or flash red lights at the Ministry of Finance, which, even if it is less money, simply does not respond. He's not responding! It does not respond with appropriate legal grounds to effectively prevent this. This was discussed in the State Council 14 days ago, after these publicly available data. As a result, the proposaler’s surprise is that this representative of the Ministry of Finance does not know that much more. But despite the fact that there are four or five budgets here, it must be said that the law proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party is in some way also saving this capital outflow abroad. The Office will be given greater powers and the Office will therefore be able to analyse and complete certain procedures more closely. He will write the final reports and will also inform other bodies that are already dealing with it today. The specialization will be increased, people will work together in one place and there will be fewer organizational problems. For this reason, we propose a change to the law, so that more money to go to tax havens will remain in Slovenia and that citizens and citizens will not pay more and more taxes. And because citizens and citizens will not have increasingly fewer pensions and fewer social benefits. And because we fight crime, which is bigger and bigger every day in Slovenia, on the other hand, there are no reactions such as to create appropriate legal bases so that we can fight financial crime more successfully. That's the point. I am therefore surprised by the position of the government of Alenka Bratušek, who does not support this law, and I am surprised by the position of coalition parties that do not support this law. Then are you in favour of washing up more and more money? Are you then in favour of this money being financed by increasing terrorism? Ladies and gentlemen, I think that in this case you say not only that you are rejecting this law, which means a more effective fight against money laundering and terrorist financing, but you are also signaling that this is not a problem for you, and even if this problem is, of course, the question is whether you do not really want to solve this problem or this problem in a Slovenian society that is spreading the Slovenian society not only financially but also morally and ethically. This is not just a matter of a few articles in the law, it is a question of a relation to the phenomena of crime, the attitude that this government has – by rejecting this law unfortunately negative. This relationship is as if we would like to accelerate illegal transactions that mean for Slovenia, for Europe and for the world only bad, nothing good.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u137	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 18th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a law to suspend the validity of the Biocidal Products Act, an end-of-life procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Ms. Nina Pirnat, State Secretary, Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Madam President, for the floor. Dear Members and Members! I'll introduce you to the law on the termination of the Biocidal Products Act. Biocidal products are substances or mixtures intended to be chemically or biologically destroyed, dissuade, harmless or otherwise prevent the action of the harmful organism. This includes various disinfectants, chemicals used as preservatives of products and materials, pest control products and antivegetatives. Agricultural pesticides, the so-called plant protection products subject to specific legislation, are excluded from the scope and are not affected by the proposed act. By means of the proposed law, we are repealing the existing national rules on production and trafficking in biocidal products, as this has become unnecessary due to the mandatory direct application of the European Union acquis. By repealing the Biocidal Products Act, all sub-legal acts issued on its basis shall also be repealed as all proceedings are under EU legislation, Regulation 528/2012 on biocidal products. For the implementation of the EU Regulation during a transitional period where the Regulation does not yet apply to all active biocidal substances, a notification procedure will continue to be carried out in the Republic of Slovenia, thereby preserving the three rules necessary for the implementation of this procedure, namely the Register of Biocidal Products, the Specific Conditions for placing biocidal products on the market and the criteria for determining biocidal products sold only at certain points of sale and the Rules on the conditions to be met by laboratories for testing biocidal products for the notification procedure. The repeal of the Biocidal Products Act does not change the current regulation of the area as the EU regulation is fully maintained and even improved in certain elements. The repeal of the national legal order will not reduce the level of protection of the health of people and the environment in Slovenia against the adverse effects of biocidal products. Following the implementation of the proposed law, the scope of biocidal products will be regulated only by the Biocidal Products Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council and the Regulation implementing the Biocidal Products Regulation by which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia provides for the competent authority of the URSK and criminal sanctions. It's already been adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Health Committee as a working mother. I give the floor to President Alenka Jeraj for the presentation of the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u140	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! At its 8th meeting, on 12 March, the Health Committee considered the draft law on the termination of the Biocidal Products Act submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. On behalf of the applicant, the Minister of Health, Dr Alenka Trop Skaza, gave an introductory explanation to the draft law. It stressed that the basic objective of the proposal for a law is to implement a uniform legal regime in the field of market accessibility and use of biocidal products throughout the European Union. The bill repeals existing national legislation and establishes a common uniform legal regime in accordance with the European legal order. The proposed law is without prejudice to the acquired rights of economic operators, since it retains the status of biocidal products which have been legally on the market in Slovenia and which apply until the new legislative framework is implemented. Similarly, the existing level of protection of human health and the environment is not diminishing as all solutions are maintained in the existing regulation. The repeal of that law also repeals the sub-legislative acts which were issued on the basis of it, since all proceedings are carried out on the basis of the European acquis. In order to implement this Regulation, the notification procedure will continue in Slovenia during the transitional period. To this end, the proposed law continues to maintain the three rules necessary for the implementation of this procedure. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects. The amendment of the Coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 2 eliminates the inadequacy pointed out by the Legal and Legislative Service. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted the amendments of the Coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 2. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended law, which includes the adoption of the amendment, is prepared on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Ivan Hršak has the floor for the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u142	Thank you, Madam President. Good-bye, everybody! In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we will support the proposal for a law on the termination of the Biocidal Products Act, as it repeals existing national legislation and establishes a common, uniform legal regime in accordance with the European legal order. Its main objective is to put in place a single legal regime in the field of market accessibility and use of biocidal products throughout the European Union. The proposed law is without prejudice to the acquired rights of economic operators, since it retains the status of biocidal products which have been legally on the market and use in Slovenia pending the entry into force of the new legislative framework, in accordance with the Regulation on the Accessibility and Use of Biocidal Products 2012. This Regulation lays down, in addition to the uniform procedures for the assessment of biocidal products managed by the competent authorities, the centralised procedures for the assessment of active substances and biocidal products to be managed and coordinated by the European Chemicals Agency in Helsinki and, consequently, the repeal of the Biocidal Products Act also repeals all the sub-laws issued on the basis of which these procedures have been regulated so far. This Regulation also contains a solution to maintain the existing level of protection of human health and the environment. This means that the termination of the Biocidal Products Act does not result in a reduction in the level of protection of human health and the environment. That is why, as has already been said, Members and Members of the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia will support the proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u143	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, the position will be presented by Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u144	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The title of the draft law on the termination of the Biocidal Products Act itself is sufficiently spoken of. Biocidal products such as disinfectants, product and material preservatives, non-agricultural pesticides and anti-vegetatives are practically daily or often, making their safety of users of special importance. The proposed law repeals the existing rules on production and trafficking in biocidal products, since the mandatory direct application of Regulation 528/2012/EU on market accessibility and use of biocidal products makes it unnecessary. That Regulation was adopted on 22 May 2012 and entered into force in the Member States of the European Union on 1 September 2013. The Regulation, which will be applied directly in Slovenia, introduces uniform procedures for the authorisation of active substances and biocidal products, lays down the scope of application, regulates the sharing of data for other applicants, establishes a single set of data to be contained in the dossier, and provides for fees to be paid by undertakings of the European Chemicals Agency and the competent authorities of the Member States of the Union to carry out the procedures. Since the Regulation is directly applicable in all Member States of the European Union, national legislation has therefore become unnecessary. In New Slovenia, we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u145	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group, Positive Slovenia will be presented by Mr Darko Jazbec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u146	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greeting to all present, especially the representatives of the Ministry of Health. We can see that they're active regardless of the personnel situation. We've heard of the contents. The proposal for a law on the termination of the Biocidal Products Act is a result of the implementation of a uniform legal regime in the field of market accessibility and the use of biocidal products on the market of the European Union. Due to the implementation of the single legal regime, this law is duly repealed by the current Biocidal Products Act. In the field of the handling of biocidal products, the European Directive on the placing of biocidal products on the market and use, which entered into force in 2000, was first laid down in the Slovenian legal order by the Chemicals Act and then upgraded in 2006 by the Biocidal Products Act. A regulation on market accessibility and the use of biocidal products was adopted in 2012 and started to apply directly in the Member States of the European Union on 1 September last year. This sets out a single legal instrument in the field of accessibility and use in the European market, introduces uniform procedures for the authorisation of active substances and biocidal products, sets out the scope of application, regulates the sharing of data for other applicants, establishes a single set of data to be contained in the dossier, and provides for fees to be paid for the conduct of proceedings by undertakings of the European Chemicals Agency and the competent authorities of the Member States of the Union. Since this Regulation is also directly applicable in Slovenia, a procedure is already under way for the adoption of a regulation implementing the European Biocidal Products Regulation. What exactly are biocides? These are ingredients that are increasingly used in households and agriculture, so it is right to mention them here at least. Biocidals are therefore a special type of pesticides for the control of harmful organisms in residential or other public premises, such as disinfection or distillation. We use them in various products or materials for preservatives, for the protection of wood and other materials. We see a very wide range of applications. These are preparations containing one or more active substances that destroy biologically or chemically or otherwise affect unwanted or harmful organisms. Their knowledge is also extremely important for consumers. As it is said, due to the possibility of double legal standardisation in the Parliamentary Group, Positive Slovenia will support the proposal for a law on the termination of the Biocidal Products Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Stefan Tessel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u148	All hail, distinguished Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished Secretary of State with co-workers, honourable Members and Members! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we do not oppose the proposal for a law on the termination of the Biocidal Products Act. With 1. 9. The Regulation on Market Accessibility and the Use of Biocidal Products has become applicable in all Member States of the European Union. The Regulation introduces uniform procedures for the authorisation of active substances and biocidal products, sets out the scope and sets out the uniform set of data to be contained in the dossier and provides for fees to be paid for the conduct of proceedings by undertakings of the European Chemical Agency and the competent authorities of the Member States of the Union. The government has proposed that the law be examined in a simplified manner, as it is a matter of expiring the law, the content of which will be amended by the Regulation implementing the European Union regulations on biocidal products. The question was raised whether Slovenian producers of biocidal products, which are mainly small or medium-sized enterprises, would be discriminated against in uniting procedures. It was ensured that the Republic of Slovenia has established its own list of assessment fees for the procedures the implementation of which is required by the Regulation for the implementation of the Regulation. In determining the level of fees, the opinions of representatives of industry and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia were taken into account in order to ensure that the costs for producers were as low as possible and that the relevant level of expertise was achieved. However, the harmonisation of the procedures for the operation of biocidal product producers does not have a particular impact on the possibility of manufacturers being included in the European market for biocidal products, as assessed by the Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u149	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, the position will be presented by Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u150	Madam Vice-President, Madam Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, a very nice greeting! The Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal for a law on the termination of the Biocidal Products Act submitted by the Government following a reduced procedure. The draft law is adopted for the purpose of implementing European legislation and provides for the termination of the Biocidal Products Act, which has so far regulated national production and transport arrangements for biocidal products. With the implementation of the European acquis, which means repealing the Biocidal Products Act, this area will be regulated only in 2012 by Regulation No 528 of the European Parliament and of the Council on biocidal products and the Regulation implementing the Biocidal Products Regulation prepared by the Government. It is important to stress that the current regulation of the area does not change, but is being fully maintained and even improved in some places. In particular, Slovenia has engaged in the protection of the situation of smaller producers of biocidal products and has secured their position. In view of the above, allow me to repeat once again: we will support the bill in our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u151	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 18th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. On the agenda, this is a draft resolution on the national programme in the field of drugs 2014-2020. The motion for a resolution was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. In order to further explain the motion for a resolution, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. The position will be presented by Ms Nina Pirnat, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u152	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! Prohibited drugs are a problem in all societies of the world that face the same challenges, what to do to reduce the supply of illicit drugs, and how to act so that the negative consequences of drug use do not occur, at least not to the same extent, and not with so much damage. The resolution is therefore based on a broad range of theoretical and empirical knowledge and with the aim of making illicit drugs more systematically managed in Slovenia in the coming period and of taking new steps towards improving the situation in this area. Among the key objectives and objectives set out in the new national drug programme for 2014-2020 are: prevention programmes for illicit drugs, which aim to increase abstinence and reduce the number of new drug users during the younger generation, and reduce the number of drug-related offences and offences; HIV, hepatitis B and C and overdose-related deaths; psychosocial treatment programmes for drug users, therapeutic communities and communities; and reintegration programmes for former addicts; development of coordination structures in the field of drugs at local and state level; and anti-organised crime, illicit trafficking in drugs, money laundering and other forms of drug-related crime. This resolution comes at the right time. In the area of illicit drugs, we face many new challenges. Let me mention here, above all, the hyperproduction of new synthetic drugs. Every day, new psychoactive substances are emerging in laboratories around the world, which is also a major challenge for the international community, as individual countries are not responding to this problem as quickly as possible and it is becoming increasingly clear that solutions will have to be sought in international agreements and closer cooperation between countries. The attempts to legalise cannabis, which we have just witnessed with us, clearly show that the international community will have to redefine itself to this illicit drug problem. However, new drugs and changes in the behaviour of drug users will require greater flexibility in dealing with illicit drug users in the future. The resolution on the national drug programme also sets out, inter alia, ways and means to address the problem of the use of cannabis in medicine. At the same time, the resolution on calls for further liberalisation of access to drugs points to the global nature of the regulation of all drugs, including cannabis, and the need for any changes to the existing regulations to be addressed in cooperation with the competent international institutions, the European Commission, the United Nations Organization, and in particular on the basis of scientifically verifiable knowledge and findings. There are, of course, improvements possible everywhere, and it is the national programme's proposal that is aimed at upgrading the existing one in terms of better coordination and ensuring better quality and efficiency. The proposed improvements are based on past years of evaluation of the implementation of the previous strategy and individual programmes, such as the methadone programme in the context of the treatment of illicit drug users at the Centre for the Prevention and Treatment of Drug Addiction. In the area of prevention, the new national programme focuses mainly on strengthening a healthy lifestyle. Emphasis is placed on the provision of proven, quality and effective preventive programmes implemented in different environments, such as education or working organisations. This, however, requires the coordinated functioning of different sources, as well as the introduction of standards for such programmes and their evaluation. In this area, we have already achieved a high level of cooperation between health, education and social protection in the preparation of the national programme. The rehabilitation programmes, comprehensive psychosocial treatment, which are under the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, are also an important part of the proposal, while continuing the treatment of users of illicit drugs in health. The area of illicit drugs requires close inter-sectoral cooperation, as well as good cooperation and involvement of the non-governmental sector. The formal framework for this type of work is the Interdepartmental Commission on Drugs at the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has endorsed the text of the resolution and will also take care of the coordination of the implementation of the national programme in the future. The Commission shall include nine sources, representatives of the profession and civil society.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The motion for a resolution was considered by the Health Committee as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I therefore give the floor to the chairman of the committee of Mrs Alenki Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u154	Thank you very much. At its 8th meeting, on 12 March, the Health Committee considered the draft resolution on the national drug programme 2014-2020 submitted to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In the course of the course of business, amendments from the SD, DL, PS and DeSUS coalition groups to several sub-chapters were tabled in the motion for a resolution. A further explanation of the motion for a resolution was given by the Minister of Health, Dr Alenka Trop Skaza. It stressed that the area of illicit drugs requires close inter-sectoral cooperation and coordination and the involvement of the non-governmental sector. The formal framework of work is represented by the Commission for Drugs with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which will also take care of the coordination of the implementation of the national programme in the future, including 9 staff, representatives of the profession and civil society. In the area of illicit drugs, we are facing a number of new challenges, notably in the form of hyperproduction of new synthetic drugs, which are becoming an international problem due to new communication tools. In laboratories around the world, new psychoactive substances are produced every day, which spread and sell with great haste. The international community will thus have to redefine itself to the problem of illicit drugs. The current developments in this area are also reflected in the demands of civil society for the legalisation of cannabis, which we also witness in Slovenia. A representative of the National Institute for Public Health said that the Institute has been monitoring the situation epidemiologically for more than 10 years, and data show that the pattern of drug users in Slovenia is changing. In the past the use of opiates has been at the forefront, and in recent years, new drugs are particularly emerging among young people. The use of cannabis, cocaine and new synthetic drugs and inhalers comes to the fore. A study was carried out at the Institute in 2011-2012 on the use of tobacco, alcohol and illicit drugs among people aged between 15 and 64 years. According to the survey, 16% of the population of Slovenia used illicit drugs at any time in their lives, most of the time cannabis. Most often, illicit drugs are combined with alcohol. Research has also shown that cannabis and volatile substances are very common among adolescents. In the debate, some members of the Committee felt that the resolution was insufficiently concrete and, above all, that it was not programme-oriented. The majority of the resolution is intended to assess the situation, and too little emphasis is placed on maintaining abstinence as values. The resolution deals with illicit drugs and a resolution on the use of illicit drugs is needed, in particular from the point of view of excessive use of alcohol and tobacco in Slovenia. There is also a broad debate within the EU on the use of alcohol. Slovenia has done a great deal in the area of prevention, and the question is whether existing programmes, mainly methadone, produce relevant results in terms of the resources used. Some members felt that the resolution was a good document with which the state and other institutions were working to keep this area working so well. We are all aware of the problem posed by illicit drugs in society. With good prevention programmes, Slovenia has done much in these areas. We've developed a network of centres, NGOs are active. This resolution is an upgrade or evaluation of the previous one and provides a qualitative basis for further work to be defined in more detail in the Action Plan. The Committee adopted two additional amendments to the Sub-chapter Prevention in Education and Education and to the Sub-chapter Prevention in the School Environment. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on all parts of the motion for a resolution jointly and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, under Rule 133 of the Rules of Procedure, the text of the updated motion for a resolution on a national programme in the field of illicit drugs 2014-2020, which includes all the amendments adopted, has been prepared. The updated motion for a resolution is an integral part of this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The New Slovenia Group and Mrs Iva Dimic have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u156	Your Honor! As a competent ministry, the Ministry of Health, in cooperation with nine authorities and external experts and representatives of civil society, has prepared a motion for a resolution on the national drug programme of the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2014-2020. This is the third time we are considering the national drug programme in Slovenia, the first to be adopted in 1992 and then, after a longer period of time, a resolution was adopted in February 2004 for the period 2004-2009. The aim of the motion for a resolution is to reduce and limit the damage to an individual, family and society by the use of illicit drugs. Given that this resolution for the period from 2014 to 2020, i.e. for a six-year period, we consider that, in part, the necessary measures are too modest, too concrete and programmed. The majority of the resolution is intended to assess the situation. In New Slovenia, we believe that the motion for a resolution does not provide a sufficient professional response to the problem of increasing numbers of both drug providers and users. In the resolution, there is a significant lack of emphasis on maintaining abstinence as values, but quite the opposite: excessive positive discrimination against drug users. Given that the European Union's drug strategy in addition to the illicit includes also authorised drugs, in particular alcohol, it would also make sense to draw up a resolution on the use of authorised drugs, such as alcohol and tobacco. The evaluation of the implementation of the previous resolution has shown a lack of interlinkage and communication between the various resources, as well as programme operators, who have largely been left to themselves. In the New Slovenia Group, we can agree with many of the above-mentioned measures in the resolution, but they are also those which we explicitly oppose. In the resolution, there is a kind of paradigm on the safe use of drugs, but there is not enough emphasis on prevention and high-level programmes aimed at abstinence. This is particularly important in these times, as the drafters of the resolution in it recognise that Slovenia is at an important crossroads at the moment, both with regard to patterns of drug use and with regard to approaches to reducing the use of illicit drugs. The resolution places too much emphasis on strengthening the network of low-level programmes and extending them to areas where they are not yet available, including for cannabis users. In dealing with resolutions and other legislation in the field of illicit drugs, we have become aware of another fact in Novi Slovenija: we have opened the door to the legalization or acceptability of certain drugs in each such programme. Let me get this straight. The methadone treatment doctrine was adopted in 1994. Slovenia was one of the first countries to decriminalise illicit drugs for personal use in 1999. In 2005, two additional substitution medicinal products, buprenorphine and long-acting morphine were introduced into the treatment programme. This resolution, which is before us, includes, inter alia, the introduction of a new programme, namely the prescription of heroin, which will have to be adapted to all other legislation. Although a longer debate on the resolution itself was held on the Health Committee, it was not observed that this measure, apart from New Slovenia, would concern anyone else. The resolution also provides for the establishment of a system to test the mentioned quantity of drug samples for users in which users could anonymously pass samples on to free or paid drug testing. Furthermore, the installation of needles and the needle exchange program in pharmacies. In New Slovenia, we believe that the planning of measures and programmes needs to be extremely careful, as we can even encourage behaviour that we would like to prevent by inappropriate approaches. We believe that to a greater extent we should promote preventive and high-level programmes aimed at complete abstinence, such as therapeutic communities and communes. Maintaining abstinence must be a value. In New Slovenia, we are against any measure aimed at legalisation and decriminalisation of individual illicit drugs. It is totally unacceptable to provide a prescription heroin prescribing programme based on the data that the number of users has stabilised. Nowhere in the resolution is this professionally justified. Each resolution will take another step further towards liberalisation. Unfortunately, the New Slovenia Group does not support the proposal for these reasons.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u157	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Positive Slovenia, Mr Darko Jazbec will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u158	Thank you for your word. I must commend the drafters for this resolution. In my opinion and in my opinion, Positive Slovenia is a very good document. In fact, it is 67 pages – this is not something written on 5 pages – for a very well-written resolution, and if this is well read, we see that the new resolution on the national drug ban programme 2014-2020 is based on. Now I'm going to write down these foundations. On the results of the evaluation of the previous 2004-2009 strategy, then on the identified needs of all the resources. I mean, nine different people are involved. We can see that this subject concerns a very wide spectrum. Furthermore, in recent scientific findings, in coordinating national legislation with EU legislation, in an integrated approach that combines demand reduction and supply reduction on the one hand. Then it is also based on monitoring and taking into account changes in the epidemiological image. In recent years, the use of cannabis, cocaine and synthetic drugs and drugs, which are not yet on the illicit drugs list, is at the top of the agenda, as the innovation of manufacturers and retailers is exceptional. Compared to the EU, we stand out in the use of flutes and hemp in Slovenia, which is estimated to be as much as 45% of young people, very easily accessible. In Slovenia, too, we are not aware of enough harmfulness in the use of illicit drugs, as the percentage of young people who are aware of this is lower than in young people in other countries of the European Union. Therefore, according to the assessment of the Group of Ambassadors, Positive Slovenia is an extremely important prevention in the field of education and education in the school environment as well. We also adopted an amendment to the Committee's home work body, which came from the Preventive Platform. This content, or an updated motion for a resolution, has encountered disapproval by the Association of Non-Governmental Organizations in the field of drugs and addiction, which points to the reduction of preventive measures in the above-mentioned environment. So, the dilemma was whether the reduction of damage is even preventable and whether it belongs to the school environment. The competent ministry shall ensure that the text still gives an opportunity to all programmes operating on the basis of the principles of reducing damage to work in the school space on the basis of quality criteria. These criteria, however, will be drawn up by an expert group on the definition of prevention in school space, at the proposal of the Commission of the Government for Drugs, as already stated in the resolution. Finally, the Government, by means of a motion for a resolution, followed the decision of the Health Committee on the use of cannabis for medical purposes, which can be ensured by amending the Regulation on the classification of illicit drugs and thereby ensuring accessibility to cannabis products. This will make it possible to use cannabis products under medical supervision in accordance with the applicable rules in the field of medicinal products and on the basis of the professionally harmonised guidelines for their prescription prepared by the medical profession. In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, we will support the motion for a resolution on the national programme on illicit drugs by 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u159	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the position will be presented by mag. Stefan Tessel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u160	Once again, a lovely greeting, a distinguished presence! We do not oppose the motion for a resolution on the national drug ban programme 2014-2020 in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. The resolution is usually beautifully written, is a list of wishes, what would be good if it were. They are certainly guiding ideas to improve the situation in different areas and levels, but unfortunately they often remain more at the principle level. The action plan is one that specifies the activity in different environments, individual projects and programmes and applies for a period of two years. On the Health Committee, we have received the Ministry of Health's promise that the action plan is in preparation or that the preparations are being completed. Many activities are already taking place in an exemplary manner, such as prevention of HIV disease in users of illicit drugs, and prevention activities in several areas are satisfactory not to say good. Many representatives of the professional public, the Ministry of Health, the National Institute for Public Health, the Commission for Drugs of the Government of Slovenia, the Office of Drugs, the Center for the Treatment of Drug Addiction, as well as the lay public, NGOs, the Association of Youth Friends, the Association for Civil Health Care, presented achievements or improvements in the past period on the Committee. Members of all parliamentary groups have also been united so that efforts to prevent drugs cannot be separated from the prevention of illicit drugs such as nicotine and alcohol. Addiction can have the same consequences, which are also severe, both in the social field and in the area of disease and mortality. Prevention must start already in family planning, continue in kindergartens, schools, sports societies, other societies, work organisations, institutions and also in civil society companies that are targeted at addicts and their owners. Medical institutions that deal with the consequences of addiction or addiction may be overly routine and overlook the possibility that the addict may still be cured. Statistics say that a third of the addicts can be cured, a third healed, and then again taken, or belonging to returnees, while one third of the addicts are somehow described, abandoned, methadone outpatients, and we wash our hands to do everything. This spends about €5 million per year on these programmes. Maybe we can get someone else out of hell with more subtle programs. Recently, in the National Assembly, we discussed the Hemp Act proposed by the Slovenian Hemp Club, which was put into parliamentary treatment through the signatures of voters. Parliamentary debate has shown that hemp is occasionally used by 16% of the population, mostly for medical purposes. Medical effects on the treatment of various diseases, including cancer, have not been demonstrated in most cases, but pain relief and better feeling are what leads patients to use cannabis oil. In the Slovenian Democratic Party Group we do not oppose the use of hemp for medicinal purposes, but it must also be in the hands of medicine and under control. This certainly does not mean legalisation of cannabis. The content of the resolution on the national drug ban programme is very extensive and intertwined, but it is already said that 9 ministries are being touched. As so many organizations and individuals are involved, the hope is that prevention will improve further, that people will be more aware and more willing to help addicts and their communities in their neighborhood to become more tolerant or cooperated with them. Even for the most addicts, the solution is not methadone or sterile needle, but also an individual approach that can lead to success. It is during this week from 1 to 7 April 2014 that the Week of Healthy City and the Local Action Group on Drug Addiction are taking place. The Slovenian network of healthy cities, municipalities, the Red Cross and other humanitarian organisations, health organizations and many volunteers is included. I congratulate them for their work and their efforts and thank everyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u161	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, the position will be presented by Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u162	Thank you for your word. The motion for a resolution on a national drug programme for the period 2014-2020 constitutes the continuity of the resolution which expired in 2009. In the context of the public debate, the motion for a resolution was addressed by various stakeholders, NGOs, individuals and companies, who could also comment and supplement their comments on a proposal for a text. This is an extremely complex and multi-disciplinary area concerning several government and non-governmental organisations that must make great efforts to harmonise and work together to find solutions in the field of illicit drugs, which will face new challenges that appear in new forms every day. Increased production of new synthetic drugs, combined with information and communication progress, puts us in line daily with new obstacles to the fight against the use and awareness of the consequences of the use of illicit drugs. The new findings and the results of the research, however, make it necessary for us to re-examine the redefinition and approach to the treatment of illicit drugs at the level of the international community. The new national programme builds on the existing one and opens up opportunities for new approaches to find answers to challenges. There is already a third national programme ahead of us, which we hope will be at least as successful as the previous one, which, among other things, has contributed significantly to the classification of Slovenia as the most successful countries in preventing infection among drug users. The national programme is thus the basis for improving the situation and focuses on prevention. The proposal aims to achieve better coordination, to ensure greater quality and efficiency, to prevent by focusing on strengthening a healthy lifestyle. Emphasis is also placed on the provision of proven, quality and effective prevention programmes implemented in different environments. However, rehabilitation or integrated psychosocial treatment is certainly an important part of the programme. The implementation of this strategy is reinforced by two-year action plans. These two-year action plans, which need to have a cross-sectoral approach to addressing the drug problem, need to identify well the risks that lead to the early use of drugs as well as approaches and measures aimed at reducing risk to a minimum, including indicators of progress. Therefore, an analytical approach to the issue and the choice of best methods of action that must be effective and must not affect the integrity of an individual is certainly necessary. In Slovenia, the use of illicit drugs is a growing problem. In recent years, there have been an increasing number of new drugs and drug users, particularly among young people. This must be of great concern to us, and in this area we must all do our work together. For this reason, the Social Democrats welcome the adoption of a resolution on the national programme on illicit drugs for the period 2014-2020, which is based on all further actions, and we will also unanimously support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Pavlisič will present the position on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u164	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, distinguished colleagues and respected colleagues! The national drug programme 2014-2020 aims to develop comprehensively and in a balanced manner all measures, programmes and activities that contribute to a successful and professionally supported way of addressing the problem of illicit drugs. Since the problem of illicit drugs is highly interdisciplinary and multi-disciplinary, the solutions cited by this programme extend to both the areas of reduction of damage, prevention, treatment and social treatment and to the prevention of the supply of illicit drugs. With this document, which has been prepared by both representatives of NGOs and researchers in the Interdepartmental Working Group, we also want to contribute to various activities in the region and in the wider European area, in particular through our active participation in international organisations. In the Citizens' List, we advocate rational and professionally supported solutions, and we would like to recall on this occasion the topic directly related to the use of illicit drugs. If we want to follow the recommendations of drug experts, it would make sense to look the truth in the eye and admit that in Slovenia we have very stigmatised certain illicit drugs and, at the same time, an extremely relaxed attitude towards certain authorised drugs. Hemp should therefore not be used for medical purposes in Slovenia, while wines are exempt from excise duty. Now let us ask ourselves, What do we have to deal with — chronically ill people who want to heal themselves or relieve their pain by means of medicinal plants that are already allowed to be used abroad or by mass alcoholism? In the Civil Gazette, we advocate the personal freedom of intellectual and reasonable individuals, so we are inclined to fully deregulation the hemp by using it for both medical and recreational purposes. However, as we are aware that the use for recreational purposes is problematic and deserves wider professional treatment, we are today again calling on the ministries responsible for regulating the production, transport and use of hemp to implement, as soon as possible, the measures necessary for the classification of hemp among traditional herbal medicinal products and to enable patients with cancer or other serious chronic diseases to access cannabis products in a controlled manner and to use them under the supervision of experts instead of purchasing them on the black market and taking them without any control. The motion for a resolution therefore provides a solid basis for experts to set priorities with regard to drug measures and policies, which will finally be based on solid scientific evidence, rather than on established social standards that have grown around the fear of the unknown. We support the motion for a resolution in the Civil Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u165	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Ms Jasmina Opec will present the position.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u166	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! Although the draft resolution on the national drug programme is a comprehensive act, the Slovenian People's Party believes that there is an increasing collection of records and, above all, lacks actual definitions and solutions and a more effective programme. With regard to drugs, there has been a lot of public talk lately, also due to the increasing demand for the legalisation of drugs, after the closure of industrial cannabis and the like. We are known to face many new challenges in the field of illicit drugs, notably in the form of hyperproduction of new synthetic drugs. We would therefore expect the applicant to make an effort to offer a modern, effective and, in particular, a concrete programme for such a sensitive area, which has major consequences for individuals and, consequently, for society. We are aware that the area of illicit drugs requires close inter-sectoral cooperation and coordination and the integration of the civil initiative and the non-governmental sector. In Slovenia, we have developed a number of advanced measures and programmes in the field of illicit drugs in the past. Local action groups have also started to work, but unfortunately they have died somewhere. Such programmes have also contributed to Slovenia's being among the most successful countries in preventing HIV and hepatitis B and C infection among drug users. This is mainly a matter of thanks to many volunteers from local communities for helping them identify problems and trying to help solve them. The programme must also contain a clear definition that there are no complications and different interpretations in practice and cannot be implemented effectively. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, despite the criticism of the proposal, we support the proposed national programme, which opens up opportunities for action in new areas that are opening up and proposing to upgrade existing approaches in the field of illicit drugs. We also think it is important that the prevention programme emphasises education for healthy living. We support guidelines that will provide reliable, quality and effective prevention programmes implemented in different environments. It is important that awareness starts at the age of growth, youth, childhood and school and continues in the workplace and in the work organisation. This certainly requires the coordinated operation of the various resources and the introduction of standards for such programmes and their evaluation. With this programme in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we would like to stress that the future of young people and the concern for their healthy development are not dependent on different dependencies, including and especially on alcohol, i.e. on permitted and illicit drugs, depending on their influence in society, and it is crucial in the role of family and parents' awareness, so the country and society must also support the family in the crisis or especially in the crisis, help parents to carry out their profession and care for their children. Without the support of the family, all programs are for nothing. Therefore, in support of the programme in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we expect effective two-year action programmes, which will also include the care for family life and the awareness of parents as one of the basic conditions for the healthy development of children and young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u167	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Ivan Hršak will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u168	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Good-bye, everybody! The updated motion for a resolution on the national drug ban programme 2014-2020 provides a strategic basis for a uniform, comprehensive and balanced approach by the State in the field of drugs. It is adapted to the current situation and to the new challenges emerging in this area, such as the demand for different arrangements for the use of hemp, and in particular to measures related to the use of a number of new types of drugs that have recently reached hyperproduction and in respect of which the real approaches to curb their use are being sought. In Slovenia, like in other countries of the European Union, the share of drug users using heroin as the first drug of decline in recent years, but at the same time the use of cannabis, cocaine and synthetic drugs and drugs that are not yet on the illicit drug list is at the forefront. These drugs can be accessible and relatively cheap, but they pose a high risk to users because they often contain unexplored substances. In 2011 and 2012, the National Institute for Public Health carried out its first study on the use of tobacco, alcohol and illicit drugs among the population aged 15 to 64, finding that 16% of the population of the population were most affected by drugs. In doing so, a particular problem is the problem of multiple drugs at the same time, especially in combination with alcohol, which is most common in the young adult population. The latter is an extremely worrying one. Alarmmanten is also an indication that in 2011 about 25% of surveyed students aged between 15 and 16 had already used any of the banned drugs, with the use of cannabis and inhalants, glues, diluents and kitchen gas coming out in Slovenia. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we believe that the fact that we have a higher percentage of young people than on average in the European Union estimates that the use of cannabis is not risky requires serious work in the field of education and prevention in education and education. The problem of drug abusers is also of concern. It's about teenagers 15 and 16 years of age who need methadone treatment. A significant proportion of these remain outside existing programmes, as they are implemented only for adults and young people are not adapted. In our Group of Members, we therefore particularly welcome the fact that they are responsible for the objective of developing specific programmes for particularly vulnerable groups. New sub-programmes to help pregnant women, children and families should also be developed, as in Slovenia there is an increase in the number of drug users living in different forms of partner communities and having children. The national drug programme is based on the identified needs in this area in all relevant areas, on the results of the evaluation of the implementation of the past strategy, on recent scientific findings and on existing legislation in this area. It was prepared in cooperation with both users and NGOs, experts and politicians. In addition, let me add that the drug field and the prevention of its use are not only a multitude of specific measures and targets, but, above all, many sad stories and ruined lives. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we will support the resolution's complementary proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u169	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendments to the supplementary motion for a resolution have been tabled. The decision on the motion for a resolution will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 18th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. This is a draft resolution on the national sport programme in the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2014-2023. The motion for a resolution was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. In order to further explain the motion for a resolution, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Aljuš Pertinač, State Secretary, Ministry of Education, Science and Sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u170	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Thank you so much for saying that. The resolution on the national sports programme is coming on your bench late, but I think it's still the right time. A few years have passed since the validity of the previous national sport programme. While it is true that this was still used in the meantime as a basis for the preparation of annual sports programmes, you will probably agree with me that it is already right that a resolution on the national sport programme, which now addresses the 9-year period from 2014 to 2023, has also been prepared. I am pleased that the public presentation of opinions has shown broad support within the civil sphere within sport to this document, that through this public presentation of opinions we have also been able to address some more open issues, which have been addressed, at least in our opinion, in further consideration of the document on the home working body, and some of them are still before us today. I expect that the document will be adopted with a further amendment and that it will be a good basis for the next nine years to prepare appropriate annual sports programmes or, firstly, an implementation plan to ensure that the strategic objectives covered by the document are also achieved. I would also point out the integrity of the document, which addresses in one place all questions relating to sport in the Republic of Slovenia, so that we are talking about high-quality sport, recreational sport, mass participation in sport, sports of older people, sports of children and youth, the connection of sport with the educational system, the building of a professional career of athletes after the end of their professional career and so on. In short, it seems to me that we can look forward to the consideration and, I believe, the adoption of this document, and then, of course, as a proposaler, we have a difficult job ahead of us, but we are grateful to bring these objectives, which are covered by the resolution, even in practice or to achieve them. So much for the intro. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The motion for a resolution was considered by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Joseph Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Vice President. Nice greeting to the Secretary of State, the Director of Sports! Colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth is at its 13th session. 3. 2014 discussed the motion for a resolution on the National Programme of Sport in the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2014-2023. The motion for a resolution was also addressed by the Commission of the National Council for Culture, and before that, on 27 February 2014, there was also a public debate in the National Assembly on the presentation of opinions on the motion for a resolution on the national programme of sport, which received broad professional support. So, as I said, the Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science and Sport, in its opinion, supported the resolution, but pointed out that a number of support mechanisms in the field of sport had not been implemented in the implementation of sport education programmes throughout the educational vertical. In particular, they thought here at tertiary level and also in the field of health care for athletes. Too little should be achieved in promoting the mission of sport as an important factor in a healthy lifestyle. They also pointed out the issue of regulating the status of a top athlete for inclusion in higher education programmes or career opportunities after the end of sports activities. They highlighted the importance of favourable tax policy or financial incentives in the area of entrepreneurship. The warning was directed towards reducing the number of hours of sports education in some sports programmes and abandoning sports education from higher education programmes. They therefore invited the Committee to adopt the amendment in Chapter 9 to include the study sport activity in the second group. This amendment did not receive the support of the committee. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, on behalf of the applicant, said that, with the national sport programme, the State co-creates conditions for the development of sport as an important factor in the development of individuals and society and contributes to reducing inequalities in access to sport. The national sport programme defines the public interest exercised by the institutions and operators of Slovenian sport. A great deal of emphasis has been given in the area of professionalism, increasing the impact of the civil sphere and decision-making, ensuring the autonomy of holders in the management of criteria and the elimination of monopolies, as well as the need to update the strategic orientation of sport. The motion for a resolution also includes new content as separate chapters, such as college sports activities, sports of older people, education of talented and top athletes, professional sport, sports tourism, the Ombudsman of sports rights, sustainability in sport and prevention of abuse in sports betting. He also pointed out that the national sport programme would be able to fully implement progressively, in line with its success, the growth of public funds allocated to sport at national and local level. The Legislative and Legal Service gave a written opinion and explained that their comments were partly taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. In the course of the discussion, the members and members of the Committee and others invited to consider Chapter 1 considered that the implementation of the draft resolution's programmes required legislative regulation. The debate on Chapter 6.1.1 also discussed sports activities in educational institutions, which are carried out and a large part is also payable and therefore are not accessible to some. An amendment was tabled here, which was also accepted by the committee. In the debate on the amendments to Chapter 6.1.7 the Secretary of State pointed out that the field of labour relations of athletes is governed by the Sport Act and the Rules of Procedure, the rules and criteria for the registration and categorisation of athletes in the Republic of Slovenia. In the debate on the amendments, the Secretary of State pointed out to sub-chapters 6.4.3 and 6.5 that, by introducing more appropriate, favourable tax policies for top athletes, they would interfere with the field of tax legislation, which is not within the competence of the motion for a resolution. Following the discussion on individual chapters, the Committee adopted several amendments and one amendment was also withdrawn. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on all parts of the motion for a resolution jointly and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the supplementary motion for a resolution in which amendments are adopted is prepared under Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure. The supplementary motion for a resolution is an integral part of this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u173	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mrs Alenka Bikar has the word on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u174	Thank you for your word. All present, and I wish you a good day! The proposed national sport programme for the period 2014-2023 has the basic objective of keeping sport an important part of the culture of our people. The resolution of actual application, as defined by the Sports Act, defines how public interest in sport can be achieved. It represents a stable environment for the implementation of sport as an important factor in the development of each individual, with particular attention to the sports activities of children and youth, which will undoubtedly also have an impact on the development of Slovenian top sports. The national programme covers the areas of sports programmes, sports facilities and natural areas for sport, development activities, sport organisation, sports events and sports promotions, social and environmental responsibility in sport and support mechanisms for sport. Among the key objectives are to increase the share of the regularly active adult population of Slovenia, the share of the sports population in professionally managed programmes, increase the number of athletes in competition systems, keep the number of top athletes and so on. The whole strategy, however, is to increase the visibility of sport as an important social subsystem. As such, the national programme does not interfere with sport itself, but primarily creates appropriate conditions for its development. In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, we support the national sport programme for the next period in a sincere desire that the victories of our athletes and athletes will have the consequences of our successful and effective sports policy and not result from the depths of their parents' wallets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u175	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u176	Your Honor! In the SDS Group, we also proposed a public debate on the resolution on the national sport programme in the Republic of Slovenia for the next period, which we believe has been successful. We note, however, that the resolution itself is written in a very general way, without some important key areas, such as sports education. We have also proposed, and for today, we propose to include in the resolution an amendment that would say that top athletes should be able to study at least remotely. It is unfair that they are punished for competing and training, and they are unable to educate themselves. Most athletes must decide in their early teens and, at the latest, in high school whether to continue their schooling or to give full attention to sport. Because of this or this system in Slovenia, we lose many talented athletes, and many also stop education and start again after the end of a sports career, which is difficult. We can agree that, after such a lack of education, it is quite difficult to start in all areas, including education. We also note that the working relationship in sport is quite old and defined. We are also saddened by the relationship of the coalition, this government, which has not adopted a single amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party on the parental committee, although in our opinion they have been prepared professionally and well. Slovenian athletes are faced with a very unpleasant tax policy, so in the SDS Group we welcome the Act on the Crossing Insurance of Professional athletes, but in the resolution we could mention that at least we are trying to tax the athletes. We also regret in the SDS that we are under-devoting ourselves to the area of sponsorship in sport. In view of the existing legislation, we miss a chapter that would mention or foresee the possibility of advertising and, as a result, investing in sport in foreign companies, such as betting houses, of which Slovenian sport would certainly benefit from the current economic situation. On the other hand, the current government of Alenka Bratušek with the new Law on Access to Public Information to Slovenian Sport and Slovenian athletes and athletes has done a bear service. According to SDS, politics has nothing to do with sports. As a policy attack on sport, however, we can refer to the amendments to the Law on Property Transformation of the Lottery of Slovenia, which privileged the position of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, and the changes have been criticised by many experts and also by the Commission to prevent corruption. If the coalition had an interest in regulating the position of the Sports Foundation, it could have settled this with a new law, not with a law whose main purpose was concluded in our opinion 10 years ago. Your Honor! There are still a lot of open questions in the resolution. That's too bad. However, we expect that legislation in this area will be more concrete, more substantive and more in favour of Slovenian athletes and athletes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u177	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Majda Potrat, who will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u178	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, Honourable Director of the Directorate for Sport! What is the opinion of the parliamentary group on the resolution without going into other areas of legislation? The previous national sport programme reached the end of 2010, so the new activities started already under the Ministry of Igor Lukšić, when a very extensive analysis was carried out at the time of the upcoming national sport programme. Unfortunately, the activities under Dr. Gigo Turk's minister have stalled. Through the National Sports Programme, the State co-creates conditions for the development of sport as an important factor in the development of individuals and society and contributes to reducing inequalities in access to sport. The national sport programme defines the public interest exercised by the institutions and operators of Slovenian sport. The proposal for a new national sport programme brings some innovations, mainly the consequences of the weaknesses identified in the previous national sport programme and the need to update the strategic orientation of sport in general – this is the purpose of the resolution. This included new content as independent chapters, including, for example, studio sports activities, which are first placed as a separate chapter, or, for example, older sports, which is the largest and fastest growing segment of Slovenian sport, or education of talented and top athletes. The talk is mainly about modern forms of education that allow athletes equal access to sports training and education. Professional sport, which is mainly about clarifying the organisational aspect of professional sport, sports tourism in cooperation with the other ministry, this is the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, and SPIRIT Slovenia, for example, the Ombudsman of Sports Rights, the sustainable aspects of sport, prevention of abuse in sports betting and so on. The fundamental strategic objectives of the national sport programme are, in particular, to increase the share of the sports population and the population of Slovenia and to preserve the number of top athletes who are already extremely high. The strategic objectives pursued lead to an increase in the visibility of sport as an important social subsystem, which is also a red thread of the overall strategy. However, I will only stop when the education of talented and top athletes is regulated. The most appropriate system regime for the education of talented and top athletes is the upgrade of the existing system. The school's high-quality, professionally-run sports training for talented children is a high-quality, high-quality point of sport, and these programmes should therefore be given the highest level of substantive, methodological and material financial support. The educational programme is the responsibility of education, while the annual sport programme is intended to provide adequate development conditions and support. Different models of coordination of learning obligations and sports routes enable athletes to have more equal opportunities for education in primary and secondary schools, while in higher education we have not yet established appropriate practices in the past. The national sport programme in this area identifies three measures. First of all, improve the quality of incentives for sports gifted schoolchildren. Secondly, increase the number of sports departments in non-Gymnosian programs. Thirdly, improve the quality of the work of sports departments in secondary schools. The implementation plan of the national sport programme will, however, provide for activities in the field of system-wide training of athletes. Let me mention only some: coordination of school and sports obligations, co-financing of sports departments in secondary schools, scholarships to professional qualifications programmes, scholarships of Slovenian universities for the education of top athletes after the completion of sports careers, establishment of an Olympic University Sports Centre for the training of top athletes students in Ljubljana, development of a tutoring system for athletes and so on. Let me mention that I'm expecting support from an amendment that talks about chess. Otherwise, we will support the national sport programme in the Social Democrats Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Kurnjek will present his position on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u180	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, distinguished Director of Directorates, Members and Members of Parliament! Whether recreational, amateur or professional, each of us is an athlete with soul and body. Sport follows us through our whole lives, is part of both mental and physical development and is essential for maintaining our living condition. The national sport programme in the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2014-2023 is the basic document that sets and directs the sport policy or prescribes the conditions for its development and placement in society. As sport is, as has already been said, placed in all times of social life, it is necessary to attract, listen to and take into account all interested public, which the Ministry has also done. That is to say, a good month ago, debaters at the public hearing in the National Assembly, as well as at the home committee, did not vote against any of the members. It is, of course, important to point out that not all the Committee's requests, which are also proposed by amendments, have been heard due to real implementation and financial possibilities. The consequences of good stakeholder participation are also reflected to the best possible extent in the quality of the resolution, which places great emphasis on the professionality of sport work and eliminates the errors found in the official resolution of 2010. If you allow, the main objectives of the resolution would not be listed again, since they have already been presented by some speakers. In the National Gazette, however, we would like these goals not only to remain a dead letter on paper but also to be achieved to the greatest extent possible. However, it seems particularly important to us that sport is generally available to the widest possible range of citizens and citizens and that sufficient conditions are provided for all categories of athletes in all ages. Nor should we neglect sports-related categories such as health care, the fight against doping and social phenomena such as cheering violence and racial or other intolerance. In this regard, I would like to quote the paragraph in the introduction to the resolution, which, in our view, covers the substance of the document. He said, quote: "Sport is the fundamental right of every person, both a child, a youth, an adult, an elderly person, and within these groups all persons with special needs. Sport activity is important for the well-being of the people of Slovenia. In view of the impact on the development of young people and thus the closely linked development of healthy lifestyles and the acquisition of social competences, sports activities of children and young people constitute the priority content of the national sport programme, and regular sports recreational activities of adults, which must not be subject to discrimination on the basis of socio-economic status, are of paramount importance." Finally, let me conclude by thinking that we are Members because we are constantly sitting in the National Assembly, probably a poor example of regular sports and healthy lifestyles. However, when we vote in the Civil Gazette, however, for the benefit of all other citizens and citizens, we will, in record time, press the resolution button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u181	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janez Ribič will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u182	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. Representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of Parliament! The proposed resolution on the national sport programme 2014-2023 is a fundamental strategic document for the development of Slovenian sport, both recreational and professional, and lays down conditions for the development of Slovenian society. Sport is one of the key factors in individual development, and it is therefore very important that sports activity is included in education from an individual’s early youth. Recent findings on the poor mobility of Slovenian children suggest that children and adolescents should be given the widest possible access to physical activity and motivate them to enjoy and develop both social and mobility in sport. The proposed national sport programme gives sport an even greater social impact, emphasises more professionalism in sports work and introduces the need to modernise the strategic orientation of sport. Among the main strategic objectives, however, the programme places an increase in the proportion of the sports active population of Slovenia, regardless of their social status and age. The programme thus sets an ambitious goal of involvement in sports activities of the people of Slovenia. It sets out that by 2023 the proportion of sports adults will increase to 70%, which according to the Slovenian People's Party's Group is an attainable goal. Sports consciousness and desire for movement are very present among Slovenians, most evident in these warm spring days when we meet bikers on the roads and on hiking trails, hikers and runners. We're Slovenians. We're a sports nation. In fact, we are a phenomenon on a global scale, since there is almost no sports sector in which our professional athletes, as well as some amateurs, would not be at the world summit. 8 awards from the recent winter Olympic Games in Sochi as well as the outstanding achievements of other Slovenian athletes undoubtedly prove that Slovenian sport is on the right track. This is not least evidenced by the ever-increasing participation of citizens and citizens in various sports and recreational events. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that this development of sport will continue and that the national sport programme 2014-2023 will successfully indicate the direction of this development. We only hope that sufficient funding will be made available for it, both public and private. In sports too, it all starts and ends with money. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the proposed resolution on the national sport programme 2014-2023 because of the positive solutions it brings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u183	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mrs Marija Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u184	Thank you for your word. Say good-bye to everyone again! The motion for a resolution is a strategic system document defining guidelines in the field of sport in Slovenia. According to the applicant, the proposal for a new national sport programme mainly brings breadth from the point of view of social inclusion, a strong emphasis on the professionalism of work, an increase in the impact of the civil sphere and the autonomy of carriers in defining the criteria and the elimination of the monopolies introduced by the previous national sport programme. Important changes are mainly the result of identified weaknesses in the previous national sport programme and the need to update the strategic orientation of sport in general. The national programme included both new content and independent chapters, including, for example, studio sports activities, the education of talented and top athletes, professional sport, sports tourism, prevention of sports betting abuses, and a particularly important chapter for us: sports of older people. Since Slovenian society is expected to be one third of the population over the age of 64 in 2020, it is important to draw up guidelines for the further development of this area. This will ensure that our population grows healthier and better. For society, sport of older people can represent an important means of reducing public health spending, as the effects of quality exercise reduce morbidity, and for an individual, regular sports activity during this life period means quality and independent ageing, maintaining physical, emotional and social health, social inclusion, reducing treatment costs and maintaining creative life energy. The fact is, we Slovenians are a sports nation. This is also demonstrated by the achievements of our athletes at this year's Olympic Games, where we have won as many as 8 collages, which places us in second place by the number of collages per million inhabitants. But athletes warn us that success does not reflect the actual state of Slovenian sport. They want systemic solutions, and above all regulated funding. It is understandable that, in times of crisis, both countries and businesses invest less in sport, but it is not acceptable that everything depends on the financial capacity of parents. Last but not least, investment in young athletes is an investment that will certainly be paid to the country in the long term. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we believe that the proposal of the National Programme of Sport for these questions does not offer satisfactory and integrated answers, but the direction indicated is the right one. For this reason, we will also support this proposal in our Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u185	Thank you very much, Mrs. Plevčak. Ms Ludmila Novak is next on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u186	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a national programme under consideration is the continuation of the programme, which was in force from 2000 to 2010. Several points of that program have not been implemented. Obviously, it was for the preparers of the new programme that the school did not make such strong commitments in the proposed programme. Christian Democrats, however, wonder whether Slovenia is organisational, human, professional and materially able to implement a programme that is, in fact, a programme for better or for different times than it is now. This is not only about the material capacity of the state and local communities to contribute public money to sport over the next 10 years, but also about the ability to negotiate between industry and other sports associations and the Olympic Committee, and ultimately the ability to set priorities. Christian Democrats propose that the state define the priorities that should be achieved for survival or even the development of Slovenian sport, which is what we all want. There is a great danger, which is confirmed by the very frequent events in Slovenian sport, especially in the organisational context, that the weakening of priorities will cause us tension in Slovenian sport. The question is whether in Slovenia we are able to identify in a very short time which sports industries we will be more generously supported by public means, so that athletes from selected sectors will be provided with good conditions for training and performances, while at the same time ensuring development for these industries with a sufficiently large legacy of young people who will prepare in quality sport to enter the top sport. If we could do that and know it, we could postpone the national programme for some time without harm, right now, so we are sure in Nova Slovenije. The sport content already defined in the Sports Act is also not significantly different in the new national programme as it was in the first national programme. The decision for priority sports industries in Slovenia could also be an important message to that part of civil society, which is convinced that every sport that someone has met and wants to cultivate is so important that they must have public support, no matter how many people deal with it and how much public interest is involved. The definition of priority sports industries would be largely justified, so we are sure, also by the proportion of those who are more serious or merely recreationally engaged in a sports sector. In our opinion, the national programme should also focus on the situation of trade unions both within the Olympic Committee and in relation to the country and local communities as important fundraisers for sports sectors. The national programme avoids one of the key issues related to the development of sport and sports industries in Slovenia, namely the role of the Olympic Committee in classifying sports industries and their links into classes and categorizing athletes. All of this is important in relation to the co-financing of trade unions and top athletes by the state and local communities. The question is whether the current functioning of the Olympic Committee provides adequate and, in particular, rapid and effective support for sectoral relations. It is an impression that the Olympic Committees are trapped in disputes within individual sectoral unions, although, in view of their role, it could be more active in the development and operation of sectoral relations with the Sport Expert Council. We could point out many other hot areas of sport in Slovenia, but it is not possible here. We propose to continue the in-depth debate on Slovenian sport. In New Slovenia, we will support the motion for a resolution. We Slovenians are often proud of our athletes, who are the biggest promoters of Slovenia. That's why they deserve all our attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u187	Thank you very much, Mrs. Novak. This has ended with the relocation of the positions of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a discussion on the chapters and sub-chapters and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 1 May. 4. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. First of all, I am putting to the debate the amendment to Chapter 1, namely the parliamentary groups Positive Slovenia, SD, DL and DeSUS. I'm here asking if anyone wants to discuss it. Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u188	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. In fact, the proposal for an amendment to this introductory chapter compromises the various proposals we have received from the Shahov Association or from those who are engaged in this activity and have sought a dictatorship that would not interfere with the official definition of sport, but would nevertheless specifically point out the mental sports games whose most recognizable form is certainly chess. We believe that this dictatorship, as we have now proposed, follows what Mr Istok Yelen has proposed as the most persistent candidate or finder of acceptable language the importance of thought games. It is about what function or city we assign to chess also in primary education and then further. We believe that, with such an important role to be attributed to chess, the reference in the resolution is also meaningful. I therefore expect that the amendment will receive adequate support, given that, as said, at least two amendments or two other dictatorships have already been rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u189	There is more than one wish to discuss, so I am opening up an opportunity to apply. Here you go. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I also, of course, advocate that there is a dictatorship that shows that sports are also established mental games, at least on some segment, in this resolution, in this sport programme. We now have an amendment on the table, which is practically identical to the amendment of our parliamentary group in the Committee's consideration, and unfortunately the coalition rejected it at that time. But it is true that this amendment, prepared by the international master Mr Istok Yelen – I think that the older one, because Istok Jelen is also a junior chess player – and that this dictatorship and this amendment is a basis for introducing chess as a compulsory choice item into schools. Because I think it's very important. I am not here as the one – because I am a senior – who is a reference for sport in our parliamentary group. The youngest active athlete has been injured and is undergoing surgery. Tomaž Lisec is also among the young people he has presented here, but among other things I am a chess officer and this effort is very close to me. For the last time, I couldn't attend the board. It is absolutely necessary to stress once again how important, for example, is chess to develop logic and multi-pectical thinking, to think about moves, to take several steps forward. There's chess and good politics close by. Those policies and those policies that are capable of making multi-pronged combinations are better politicians than others. I can't imagine, even though I don't know what kind of person I am, I'm more of a lover's chess player. You tell me a lot of times that I see something in advance and then it turns out that that's exactly what you had in mind, sometimes even a deceitful coalition, that it also allowed me to play chess. Chess is a mind game and certainly helps to develop personality, but modern chess also requires a lot of physical activity, physical fitness. All of today's chess coaches are aware of that and are working on it. For when, for example, they played Karpov and Viktor Korčnoj as world champion, Viktor Korčnoj, who was somehow a dissident of the Soviet communist system and was in the Russian authorities until he emigrated to Switzerland, on the side track and wanted to disable it, had only, so experts, a weakness that he did not deal with physical fitness. Although Karpov is physically weak, his trainers — said to have had the government’s support of a parapsychologist Zuhar — also worked hard on physical fitness, even though the parapsychologist used all the sidelines of psychology, parapsychology, and so on. Zuhar advocated that the enemy should be hated, which must be wrong in sports. So if we're going to include this, and today I hear that the coalition will now support this, even though there are great chess players in coalition ranks, better than me, but they couldn't get through that phase because the amendment was infected by opposition investment. These ideas in the area of developing virtues, opinions and personalities – the coalition is against if the opposition first invests one thing. This is unheard of, but, as I say, it seems a little clear in the coalition and that at least this amendment, which is some basis for building on the development of chess, the popularization of chess for young people, the introduction of chess as a compulsory choice item in schools, will be accepted. You know that, together with the best chess player in the world of Kasparov, in the framework of the European Parliament, Mr Zver, the European Member, including a chess player and a chess player, is very much involved in this, so that these thinkers, supporters in Slovenia are quite something. Slovenian chessists have also contributed greatly to the development of young personalities by mentioning Bruno Parmo and this great sister, and it is therefore very right that no chess is despised in the Olympic Committee. There is a potential for this lobbying weaker, but it must be established as such, because it contributes much to the national corps, to the development of mentality, logic, engineering logic and also to politics if you want. Some politicians were also good chessists, and they were generally considered good politicians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Replica, Mrs. Potrata.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u192	Thank you. I reiterate that the current coalition amendment is identical to the one that was tabled on the committee. I'll read both, let the public decide whether it's an identity or a relation, but I told them who the author was. The SDS proposed that the last sentence of the second paragraph should be followed by a text that would say: "The national sport programme also includes some historically established mental games that promote the development of the qualities of thought and personality." Our amendment to this place adds the text: "Sport also develops different qualities of opinion and personality." I have said that this compromise is more appropriate and worthy of support. The politics of chess, as we've been before, and I give up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Kurnjek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u194	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. We will support this amendment in the Civil Gazette, as we are, after all, co-signers. Nevertheless, we do not think that this text brings some added value. In fact, it is very difficult to imagine a sport that can only be divided into mental or physical. So I don't think in the resolution itself this dictatorship is going to be too important. After all, chess is not the only thought game we have registered. I think Dr. Kolar might be able to supplement me here. Apart from bridge there is certainly some sport game based mainly on thoughtfulness, and then of course we have all kinds of sports moving from somewhere mostly mental to mostly physical sport. By separating and introducing such a dictatorship, there is nothing wrong with entering it, but we do not have added value. We are doing this in some way by hand with the representatives of the Shahov Association who have been most persistent in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr. Kavticnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u196	Thank you very much. First of all, I'd like to tell my colleague Chuš a quick recovery, but otherwise I'm glad chess is recognized as part of the sport. Now we are not talking about sport and chess anymore, but that sport or chess is also part of this process, where thought and the building of a complete personality – what sport is of course. I will support this amendment and I am pleased that the representative of the Shahov Association has also been so persistent that he wanted this part to be added to the introduction. However, with this amendment, I am sure that sport will not be any more thoughtful than it was, and sport will be able to continue its mission to build a whole personality without this amendment or this amendment, without this resolution or with this resolution. However, I am convinced that this resolution will significantly improve, as this resolution of the national sport programme gives a vision and is bold enough to enable the Ministry to draw up appropriate legislation that will have to be drawn up. I'm talking about the Sports Act, the Society Act. Work legislation will also need to be drawn up and tax legislation also partially regulated. Otherwise, we did not adopt a proposal for an amendment to regulate certain tax exemptions on the Committee, but it was said that this should be regulated in tax legislation. I am confident that the Government will act as a whole in this direction and that the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport will be able to convince the Ministry of Finance that this should also be regulated. The law on scholarships, about Zois' scholarships, where scholarships for athletes should also be introduced. I'm sure what we did wrong back then can now be corrected. This resolution provides the basis for sport in all areas, at all levels, for all age categories, as we have said, for young, old, older and, of course, also for those with special needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u198	First of all, I must say that I am grateful to my colleague to see that she has read our amendment once again, and it has been seen that our amendment was a much better and more complex dictatorship. We have also taken it down the Isle of Yelena, and since I recognize to the chessists logic, thinking, multi-movement combinations, which is typical of chessists, I know that this basic doctrine is significantly better. But Mrs Potrata told the committee that the coalition does not accept this amendment, that it will not be adopted, which then happened. I agree with the etched dictatorship and the stuck amendment, even though I think you made a mistake on the government and in the coalition. As often as in this coalition, you respond to the good solutions prepared by those who see deeper and longer — today we have to be content with this too. I have to answer that, too. Colleague Potrata sees the politicalization of chess in that I said that in politics are also desirable multi-movement combinations that are characteristic of chess and chess players, that top chessists see 10 moves forward to the final victory. To give up this farsightedness, logic, combinatorials, aimed at a multi-way to victory – I must agree with you if you say so. That the Slovenian government had also given up on it long ago, but it is also visible every day. I'm afraid you can see that. Let me just say that chess is increasingly supported by countries in Asia as well as thinking skills and personality building. It is no coincidence that until the recent world champion Ananda, China had done a great deal during the decade to popularize chess, that it had already had female world champions in chess, and almost no chess in Asia 40 years ago. The first Asian champion was Filipino Grandmaster Torre. But a lot has changed since then. The Chess highlights these countries, which are at the same time the fastest developing countries in the field of software sciences. Finally, the Chinese and the Indians were exported to America and then the bearers of these activities in the United States, even the Nobel Prize winners and so on. And because of this, I often see that with us these multiplicity, these logics of the current authorities do not have to recognize this, to recognize it, and also to bow to the efforts of the chess players, the Chess Union of Slovenia, who are trying to keep chess a mandatory choice object in order to have an important place in the construction of young people and young people. I hope that this will change in the future to become a policy in Slovenia that will build on multi-path combinations and logic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u199	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State also made a statement. Mr. Pertinac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u200	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice-President. A respected choir! I must say that whoever seeks chess only in this sentence, which is proposed with the amendment to be added to the text of the resolution of the national sport programme, will miss. Chess is an equal sport industry, like all other sports industries in the Republic of Slovenia. Far from anyone forgetting about him. Now we've heard that the government has forgotten about chess. I have to say, it's not like that. Just two cases, if you'll excuse me. Regarding the systematic introduction of chess into primary school. Since we know that there are many advocates in this National Assembly, I would like to inform you that we have a 3-year selection course of chess, which contains the chess bases of combining and strategy, within a set of natural subjects and that children can choose one object from nature and one from sociology as optional subjects. So we have chess in the education system, systemically regulated. For example, chess as a sports sector is also provided with training for professional workers in sport, co-financed by the European Social Fund. During the period 2011-2014, the following programmes were applied for co-financing from this source: chess mentor, chess instructor, elementary chess teacher, chess coach and high school teacher. By 29 January this year, chess mentor, chess instructor and elementary school teacher were implemented. Of course, I also agree with those who say that other sports industries are also developing and promoting the development of thinking. So I think that chess as a sports industry is completely equal to other sports industries, and because no sports sector is explicitly mentioned in this resolution on the national sport programme, even chess is explicitly mentioned. Otherwise, the Government supports the adoption of the proposed amendment as a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. Pertinac. Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u202	Thank you. I will come from what Mr State Secretary has now said, and this was also the reason why I did not insist on my amendment on the committee when I thought that the words "and some of the historically established mental games" could be added for moving activities in the second sentence of the second paragraph. The explanation that chess is not only such a historically established thought game was also stated. I am aware of all that the Secretary of State has said – that chess can also be found in other parts of the resolution. But if one of the sports alliances, this is the Shahov Association, insisted on investing and looking for a doctrine that could be classified, and if the remaining coalition partners have also found that, in spite of such an amendment that we are now proposing, it is justified to use the word compromise proposal because chess can be seen elsewhere and because chess is not the only thought game, but they have given in and adopted such an amendment. In the introduction this is added, this is on the explicit scope of action, and I think that if we follow this fact, the resolution is a strategic document in which the first word of sport should be used and we should follow the way sportsmen and sports workers see themselves in sport, that they should be followed. I am aware, however, that the Section for Sports of the Republic of Slovenia has given its consent on the proposal for a document without supplementing it. I am also aware that the Olympic Committees of Slovenia – the Association of Sports Unions, of which the Shahov Association is part, have given their consent to such a document, but given that we are trying to harmonise the various interests of Members, it seems to me that this amendment, which follows civil society, is justified. And we've also heard that the government doesn't object. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u204	Since there is an opportunity for us to contribute to the popularisation of chess through this word in Parliament, I think chess in Slovenia as a country – that Slovenia is extremely developed – is a chess empire. We know that at the Olympics ours have also come to the brink of the first or even were among the first ten of the 150 teams. And as such, the ultimate chess is developed. Because it bears attributes in the development of personality, mentality and logic, it must be continuously popularized. Otherwise, it would not be in the resolution, but would recommend that any high school or high school where more than one chess player is likely to have an annual parallel with someone for that level. These could be FIDE masters or chessists with more than 2 000 600 Ratin points, because I know how to popularize, say, helped when at Vidmar Memorial, then I was a student, Ljubomir Ljubojevic, who was then the 6th actor of the world, played simultaneously in the student settlement. I played myself, and in my 55th move, I even sacrificed a figure. I thought I saw the way to the mat, but we only played three more. This was the same time, and then in the 63rd move, I had to shake Ljubojevic's hand to defeat. But that action, and then next year the German Grandmaster Hübner, who was also among the ten in the world, played simultaneously, and Gligorić and others. This has greatly popularized chess among students. Such action would somehow be recommended that every high school, high school once a year, be held simultaneously. The chess board on 30 boards can be played by a player who has 2 000 450 ratings, which are large in Slovenia. And it would be such a synergy that we would also popularize chess in this way and, for the first time, preserve the selection of talents in Slovenia in order to maintain this level of chess that we have achieved with Vidmar, the candidate for world champion in the past, Pierce, Parmo, Mountaineers and our current chessists, Grandmaster Pavasović, Tratars, the younger ones that I will not list – all by name of course I know – but also Beljevski, who played for our team, came from Ukraine and was also the 6th actor of the world. This is how we would really do something. This would not mean some means, but it must be the political will of the school ministry to give someone such an instruction to do something for this kind of enforcement of chess and chess activities, circles and all that. That's not what it was until now. Maybe because teachers may be a little small, but they're good chess players, they just don't have the leverage to go to the Ministry. It is therefore important that we talk about this in this house to support various forms of support for the development of chess. Because the state is sure to pay it off. That's what I guarantee you. The development of technical culture is extremely closely linked to chess. Milan Vidmar was also a world-renowned expert in electrical engineering, and so on, I do not list these modern cases of computer technology. That would be worth it to the state. This is also a small contribution to major effects. Like I said, chess players are always useful in politics in later years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u205	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. Anyone else want a word? [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Brultz? I'm glad you complimented Mr. Jerovsk. Now we go to the next amendment or subsection 6.1.1. Here we have several different amendments, including various investors, namely the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National List and DeSUS, the second amendment of the SD, DL and DeSUS groups, the third amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors and the fourth amendment of the Positive Slovenia Group. Even after the content, these amendments are different, so I ask for attention or ask who wants to discuss them, and then tell them what they will discuss. Anybody want a word? Mr. Kurnjek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u206	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I will stick to your proposal and firstly, to the first amendment tabled by all coalition parliamentary groups, which says that by 2020 an analysis should be prepared of the usefulness of the introduction of one school sports hour per day in primary and secondary schools. We have nothing against such a proposal in the National Gazette, but once again we repeat what we have already said on the Committee – that two additional school hours, although sports trainings, cause certain additional school obligations for a student or student, which, of course, may also affect the rest of the curriculum. In particular, I would like here to remind those who will prepare this analysis if they prepare it and, in accordance with the resolution, will most likely have to prepare it if the resolution is adopted to take this into account. If I may, I would like to define myself to the others that I am not adverting after that, namely the other proposed amendment tabled by the SD, DL and DeSUS groups, which is essentially also related to the fourth, which was tabled separately by the Positive Slovenia Group. In the Civil Gazette, as well as in the SD and DeSUS, we propose that the lecture now be recorded in such a way as to allow free learning of swimming and cycling exams within the delivery of primary school curricula, while avoiding skiing and dancing. Why? Because we think that swimming and conducting a cycle exam are vital for every student and person, and skiing and dancing are not really. And maybe there's another very brief replica of Mr. Lisco when he said earlier that we had rejected all their amendments. That is not true, because we have also rejected some of those who came from coalition groups. With regard to the third amendment, however, I would like to ask if the Secretary of State can also be identified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u207	Mr Secretary of State has just asked for the floor. Here you go, Mr. Pertinac.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u208	Again, thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice-President. First of all, I would like, with regard to the second amendment or amendment under number 2, if I may, and the amendment under number 4, to what already honourable Mr Kurnjek has in some way warned. In fact, if the amendment under number 2 is adopted, the amendment under number 4 will become irrelevant or should be corrected if we do not want to be in a position to have a target in the national programme that will not have an appropriate indicator. In fact, as has already been pointed out, the content of these two amendments, which are in some way linked because the first brings a strategic objective and the second indicator to measure the achievement of this objective, is not aligned because we have added skiing and dancing in the indicator, and the amendment under number 2 does not. However, with regard to amendment number 3, I would just like to point out that if this amendment were adopted, we would actually put top athletes in an unequal position with everyone else, because we already have a systemic solution that allows for the education of top athletes or the possibility of study. Finally, in the motion for a resolution of the national sport programme, there is even a chapter on the education of top athletes. So if the amendment were adopted in the proposed form, then this could be understood as allowing top athletes to study only remotely or not being able to study now, which of course is not true. It should also be stressed, however, that it is within the competence of higher education institutions or universities to prepare such study programmes as they consider appropriate, and this is certainly not an issue to be affected by a resolution, especially when it comes to a resolution in the field of sport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u209	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. I'm opening up the possibility of an application because there's more than one wish. Here you go. Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u210	Thank you very much. There are four amendments ahead of us. You've directed us to identify individuals. It would first be defined by the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. It is no coincidence that in the opinion of the Group I have specifically stopped in the education of top athletes. And if you remember, I specifically stressed that, as we have a well-managed system in primary and secondary school, education in higher education programmes can be further improved. But if we were to follow the SDS amendment, then we would actually revive the possibilities for the education of top athletes, because what is e-education other than distance education. The possibility of an entry point is anywhere, just the right address for your communication. If we say "at least study at a distance", everything else is excluded from this as the form that is offered. The fact is, however, that the study directions in which long-distance obligations cannot be met and implementation for top athletes of adapted forms of education must also be ensured in the location where the top athlete is enrolled in the study programme. Only if it's a student exchange that he can do it anywhere else. I don't rule that out. So there are possibilities. I cannot support this amendment because, as it is said, at the last stage means, and this is essential, the narrowing of options and worse regulation as indicated in the resolution. Given that the resolution is a strategic document and that the opinions of the parliamentary groups have also expressed the view that priorities should be expressed and priorities set, I see in the amendment which specifically highlights swimming and cycling exams, as well as prioritisation, which should also be given special care in the tighter or tighter economic options: this is what is a priority. This, at least as I see it, does not preclude the possibility of other sports activities or other sports industries being given an opportunity, provided that there are other options for them either in the local environment or at national level by 2023. So I'm expressing my support for the other amendment, not the fourth amendment, because it was said that these two amendments were essentially being excluded. I know that this cannot be a pleasure for those who have tabled their own amendment, but it is for us to express our opinions and our beliefs. In all of this it is certainly – it is not a valuable classification of individual sports industries, but it is only what will be followed by obligations. That's why I think it's a good idea to talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mr. Kavticnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u212	Thank you very much. I'm just gonna start with where colleague Majda Potter ended up. The second amendment to Chapter 6.1.1 tabled by the three coalition groups is an amendment that speaks of something that is already in school. Swimming and cycling exams in schools are already under way. Initially, I said that the resolution should be bolder and a little more ambitious, and this is this amendment, the fourth one we tabled in the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia. This amendment, I must say, has received support from the committee. However, since we promised to settle the matter as proposed by the Legal and Legislative Service, we then wrote down "the number of implementing free courses of swimming, skiing, dancing or the number of completed cycling examinations or exams". This is an amendment that is a little more ambitious, and I am sure that in the 21st century our children deserve to have these content free of charge. These content is now implemented in schools through schools of a nature that are cost-effective, and children from certain social groups never experience this in primary school. Some kids don't. Even though they live in an environment where they have a ski in front of their noses, they have no chance of getting on the ski. With this amendment, let's make it possible for them. I am convinced that this amendment from the standpoint of justice is also better. As far as one hour of sports education is concerned every day — that is what not least is recommended by all experts in sports education. We know that, and much has already been said about this way of life, which is now present, for young truly unhealthy children, forces them to over-sit, offers them various games, computer, virtual and so on. The infrastructure where children live is also such that children are not allowed to move every day. In our youth we had broad meadows, where we had, after all, trees where we climbed, played, and so on. This life and the infrastructure that is now do not allow children to do so. Therefore, it is still necessary for children to meet daily with guided sports education. Therefore, it is also appropriate to make an appropriate analysis to see if this is too burdensome for children. As a longtime sports worker, I tell you that sport is a burden on all the activities that school requires of children in one way or another, it means learning, sitting, preventing them from moving and so on. We know what schools are like today, how they're built, how kids can't run in the hallways, so they can't move around in classrooms, and so on. That's why this amendment is still in place. The amendment tabled by the SDS Group of Members, however, is, of course, in the process of higher education. I'm sure this place is well-saved. It's not the best-saved. It is necessary to ensure that top athletes are provided with as many such programmes as possible, but we are a country or a country where we also have limitations in this area. But we live in Europe, and I am sure that athletes can also join other European universities. All they need to do is help and enable them to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mrs. Novak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u214	Thank you for your word. I think that without this analysis of prudence we can find that children need movement every day, and given that the way of life has changed significantly over the years, and that children, young people spend more time in closed spaces with computers, not so much in nature, not so much on playgrounds as in the past, or with farming work, I think it would be better if they just wrote that it is wise to introduce one hour of physical education or sports education every day in primary and secondary schools. I agree with the second amendment, because as many of these activities as possible, they should be carried out within the regular programmes. As we know what situation we are in, that it will not be significantly better for some time to be able to pay additional rates, we should do as much as possible within the programmes. Of course, we can’t just do swimming in the school itself because there’s usually no swimming pool, so a course is needed. Swimming belongs to basic literacy, if we say so, and is of vital importance many times, so it makes sense. Also a bicycle exam, because safe driving is still important for children. While other courses, such as skiing – sometimes we did this during sports days on the shore of the school where this was possible. This is also related to significant financial costs, especially if we think that they must have the best, most beautiful and I do not know what equipment, but, as I stress, given the situation we are in, it is difficult to imagine that all these activities can be carried out in the form of free courses, but not within the regular curriculum, so I support in particular the fact that every day sports education in primary and secondary school, of course if possible, and that as many of these activities would be carried out within regular programmes, because we know that sports teachers have broad knowledge, much must train, study, from dancing, skiing, athletics and so on. And that's why I think they're capable of doing all these things within the regular program.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Bikar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u216	Thank you so much for saying that. Once again a nice greeting to all present! I'm glad we're talking today about a subject where we're all kind of on the same side. We agree that sport is one of the most successful industries in Slovenia, where we achieve excellent results, where we belong to the world summit itself and have excellent athletes. Unfortunately, that's my assessment. We don't appreciate them very much. So before us is a document of a national sport programme that will somehow indicate which direction sport will go all the way there by 2023. It's some kind of strategy. In Slovenia we have many strategies written about such and different areas. We don't even have some, and we'd need them. This document before us is, in my humble opinion, a good document. It is essentially an upgrade to the previous one with certain new, complementary chapters or content such as sports tourism, education of talented and top athletes, sports of older people and so on. So I can say that the document is as good as it is that it's well-written. However, it is also crucial for me that in practice it is carried out to the greatest extent possible, since it is not really expected that everything we write in will then be realized. But if we are, it's even better. We can talk here and write strategies to the point of disability, but if in practice this will not be implemented, then it is all somehow meaningless. If I start at the beginning, with our youngest, it seems important to me, as we also wrote in the document, to give emphasis to quality and regular sports education. So, as regards this proposed amendment of the coalition to prepare an analysis of the usefulness of introducing an hour of sports education every day, I would agree here with colleague Novak. I would now give every day an hour of sports education, because in this proposed document we have increased to four times a week, but I think it would be great if it were every day. It has been shown that children who are involved in sports are less likely to use their phones than computers before televisions, and they think otherwise. Sport is experienced as a useful factor for improving health, well-being, entertainment, and they are more energy-filled, more confident and also collected in learning. There's one more thing I'd like to point out here. It is very important for young people to work with qualified and professional workers. The fact is that the quality of implementation of the individual programme depends largely on the teacher. This is not only about the teacher’s knowledge, but also about his personality, his belonging to the profession, his engagement, and his desire to teach the child as much as possible and to raise him. The golden years, as regards the child’s motor development, range from 3 years and there to 6, 7. That's when it takes the most as far as this physical development is concerned. And at that time, a specialized sports teacher should be available. But they don't have them most of the time. During this time, teachers and educators are working with them, and from first to third grade teachers are working with them. Some time ago, I noticed that after this sports-based chart, which has been accompanied for decades by the physical and movemental development of children, they made comparisons of children from 20 years ago and today at 600 meters and are actually 10 seconds slower than they were then. That's pretty scary information for me. It is also true that in Slovenia we have a very high level of overweight children as well as poor mobility. We discussed this a lot and also discussed it on the Health Committee. This is also an alarming information for me that we have to do something. And not only as a country, but as individuals, I think we can do a lot here. As parents, we should be the first ones we are, and we must be examples for our children. If I move on. In a public presentation of opinions, where some small Members were also present, two top athletes also spoke. One is no longer so up-to-date, this is Iztok Chop, who, on behalf of the OKS Sports Commission, stressed in particular how important it is for an athlete to be educated as well. And since I also know from my own experience how difficult it is to combine all the obligations in school and training, preparation and competitions, I welcome this proposal from the Commission to be written into the programme and it is also written, and that it is also then carried out, of course, the establishment of a university sports centre in the form of a foreign, which would greatly facilitate studies or training for athletes to students. He said very well also the position of the active athlete Rozle Prezelj, who said very vividly and described what all the top athletes we face in our career and also when we finish it or finish it. I can also tell you from my own experience. I think that the system of employment of top athletes, as we have today, is a good system. As a top athlete, I've been working alone for years at the police station. This job enabled me to be able to carry out my training, preparation and competition programme smoothly. This certainty, this social security and some small income meant a lot to me. So I was able to participate in three Olympic games, I was also a finalist of the world and European championships, a state champion and a record player, but I also graduated from higher school with an intermediate break. Well, this job meant some security, some security, but I had to prove it all the time. It wasn't self-evident that once I was in this system, but then I was constantly there. Every year, I had to re-examine myself, confirm the appropriate criteria and achieve the right results. Even though I was constantly aware that this would be over, once you finished your career, it was a great shock and it was not easy. Talking about a career after a career is easier than doing it. There's something else going on when you're getting ready for it. Many times, however, some top athletes end their career suddenly, unexpectedly, for example due to injury. Therefore, the proposal, also supported by the OKS Sports Commission, would allow athletes to take up working experience in the course of an active career before they complete the sport path, in order to make it easier for them to become involved and also to run for the job. Because what happens? You end up a career, you sign up for a job, and then you write, I don't know, three-time Olympics, a medal winner at the World Cup. Therefore, it would also make sense to consider how to do this in concrete terms not only with public administration but also with economic companies. If I could, I would just add that it is very important for all interested ministries to cooperate with each other in the implementation of this document, from economic, health, infrastructure, environment, tourism, not to talk about financial matters at all, because without it there is almost nothing. I'd like to touch a new chapter on sports tourism. This seems very important to me, and we should know how to do it well. Here we could very well walk hand in hand with top athletes as the biggest promoters of Slovenia in the world and at home. It seems to me that we somehow don't know their achievements or that we don't know enough to "use" them in a way that would even better present Slovenia to the world. The fact is, athletes are the ones who create a positive image of Slovenia in the world. If I could, as a former athlete, somehow bear a few thoughts about what athletes would like. Certainly not just the flickering of the shoulders and the promotional pictures of politicians when it's real. Here you might quote the hockey team's selector at the last Olympic Games in Sochi, who says, "We are all being patted on the shoulder, but rather at the expense of this achievement they should build five hockey halls. If we are already in such a position as the country, we will be more than five million euros for the halls. But the children will be involved in sports and we will have three times as many successes in Slovenian sport as we have so far." I would totally agree with that. I would also like to see it cut once and properly tackle tax relief not only for athletes but also possibly for companies that help these athletes. It would be nice to think of top athletes after a career. We've already done something in this direction and it's happening, though. To conclude, I would like to stress once again what I have said several times. If people are more involved in sports, there will be more healthy people, fewer health problems and investment will certainly return to the country. Thank you very much. But of course, speaking of amendments. Of course, I will support the coalition amendments and the positive Slovenia amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr. Kurnjek, then Mr. Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u218	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I would only briefly supplement myself with the first amendment and also with what the other predecessors said. Of course, children are not moving enough at the time of electronic communications devices and it might make sense to think about introducing additional hours of sports education into the school system. However - I will tell my case. At the time I attended high school, my regular weekly school duty was 38 school hours, which included two school hours of sports. So if I added three more hours of sports education, that would mean 41 school hours of student duty. Let us compare the smallness, for example, with the responsibilities of a high school teacher, but how much he must carry out his duties within one week. I just want to say that when we think about such things, we need to look at them in an integrated way, and if we add something, maybe something will have to be taken away from the commitments that students and students have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mr. Brultz.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u220	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u221	Just a minute. Now we have one replica. Mr. Kavticnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Look, sport is supposed to be a way of life. And once you encourage your children that it is their way of life, it is a pleasant way of life, and you can do pleasant things in life for hours, more time. When it gets nice, it's no weight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u223	Thank you very much. And Mr Jerovšek's replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u224	With what Mr Kurnjek said about the burden on the students, I agree, they are too burdensome. It's too much, but it's a solution. If it were 38 hours of what I know, one hour of chess and logic, then a weekly load of 31 hours would be necessary for the students, and the smart ones would come out at the end and have more logic. However, there are few in the school’s authorities who think multifacetedly that have become infected with chess in their youth. It's not there yet. But I am counting on others to come to this and that chess will really be the popular thing that will also allow for some relief, more time for sports activities, those classic sports activities and finally a better result. A graduate student will be a better product in terms of life skills, as far as this format can be given to society and the country. The overall positive results will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mr. Brultz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u226	Thank you very much. That's an interesting debate. I'll sign everything you said. [[advertising from the hall]] Not to hunt me down for words now, but look, let's be realistic. If we bring in a technical education professor, a household and so on – too little. Kids can't cook, they can't wash their socks. If we bring in musicians – you know how much singing, choir singing, and so on means in life. If we bring in others, mathematics, God forbid, physics, chemistry, we strain the situation. What Kurnjek said is true. Now let's take a look at ourselves. Today Virant said, "No way, we're not raising VAT." All that we are saying today is a higher cost, a higher cost from the state budget. It's a shame the Slovenian kid hasn't seen the sea yet. How many are there? You know? She can't go to school in nature like she was told. She can't swim. Skiing — it is not a superstandard today, it is a life’s work that everyone should know. But if we want to have this for free, then let's stop crying and doing the ZUJFs, and I don't know what and demand austerity measures in this area. Today, those dragons, economicists and these are not to say, but what we are now going to invest in sports education, but we don't have technicians, engineers, electrical technicians, and I don't know who. Let's be realistic. Once again, I'm going to sign off on this, not for the increased burden of children. Go watch, I'm leaving at half past Ledin's school in the morning and the mass is going in. If I go home at three or four and the mass goes out. They have a different schedule than we do. I can go out now and have lunch, walk down the halls, and I don't know what. But the child is tense, burdened with objects and so on. Look, five hockey halls -- okay, how many basketball halls do we have today? We had a European championship and what problems we have with basketball now. The least I do, but I like football, is that we have such huge stadiums in Slovenia. We'd need one like the Conch or the Maribor, and we'd invest a lot in this sphere of sports. When I was a principal, first class kids – my kid will play football because he got a uniform there and he got a bag and I don't know what. But if he went to the TVD Partizan, where they developed all of his functions, and then it turned out that he was going to be a good basketball player, he was an athlete, and he was some other athlete, and they pointed him at it. No, we're already saying about the baby, he's going to be a football player. These are the wrong things. So I support the need to give a lot of resources for sports, to develop sport – without a healthy body, there is no healthy spirit – including chess. Jerovšek, I really congratulate you once again on all your statements. Sometimes when you're knitting politics, I'll remind you that he's talking about chess because you were perfect. I agree with everything, but that's what you have to give the money for. Free school in nature, free sports – you know that children do not have to take a train to a sports day somewhere, to an activity. It'll cost you. When we talk about austerity measures when someone else says: no VAT, no property tax, God forbid, he who is rich, let him be and let him not pay anything – that is when we remember today's debate. There's nothing without it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Mrs. Bikar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u228	Thank you very much. I'd like just one brief replica of my colleague Brultz. Maybe this is where we really agree. We don't need five hockey halls, there'd be one athletic enough that we don't have. After all these excellent results, we don't have it today. One good gymnasium and some Olympic pool would still fit, and we don't have one. So this is where we really agree. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u230	A colleague of Bikar's. We don't have a real athletic hall, but I'm sure as a former sprinter knows that we have a winter hall under the stadium stands in the Slovenian Bistrica. So in some places, we also tried for sports infrastructure. You've probably already competed there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u231	Thank you very much. If I can give Mrs. Bikar a word, it's probably in the form of a replica. And then there's Mrs. Majda Potrate. Here you go, Mrs. Bikar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u232	Thank you. Yeah, it's a very small part again. Indeed, there is one such hall in Ljubljana. They're covered stands and you can do a lot of training there. But the real athletic halls, which would not only be athletic, but multi-purpose, which many other sports can benefit from, are said to be intended for a wide range of athletes – and there are no such circular halls in Slovenia. The closest one is in Linz, where we went to practice, and Vienna, and so on. So I know this hall, but it's not nearly what I had in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u233	Mag. Tremendous, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u234	It was heard: sports pedagogues in the first three years. That's true, but we have a restriction on employment. I don't know how you're gonna do this. My experience with sports education in primary school is such that those who would be most needed for sports education because they have poor mobility skills, sports education avoid, and it is necessary to ensure that those who need it are involved and activated. We're surprised if anyone says they prefer math or Slovenian because we all expect every child to say they like sports. But they're also the ones who don't like sports the most, and here's the big responsibility to win these. However, data on how life expectancy is expected to grow are such that they predict that it will slow down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Mr. Kavtičnik, then Mrs. Bikar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u236	Thank you very much. There's a lot of kids who like a certain subject because of a teacher. And when a sports teacher is good, professional, he can listen to his child's needs and wishes, then he's not afraid that the child wouldn't love sports, whatever. Today we are not talking about sports as some industries, but we are talking about satisfying the need for movement in general. This has been the case since the birth of children, and then this need has somehow disappeared due to other needs. Today we live in a world that is market-oriented and that can lure children into some other deceptive way in front of the TV, in front of the computer, with certain games and so on. For teachers and sports teachers, I am also talking about teachers of classrooms who go through the process of education and who can show sport and children in a nice and good way somehow prepare for sports, but there is no need to be afraid that children would not like sports. I can tell you about one project we've been doing for nine years where all children go through some process of skiing learning. There's no child who wouldn't go through this process. If you show it to them in an appropriate way, children are happy to accept it. This is why the 4th Amendment is so important that we give children, in addition to the mandatory content they have in sports education, additional content — dance, skiing, everything that is written there. That is why this amendment is extremely important, especially in this situation when parents are unable to pay for all that they should otherwise pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u237	Mrs. Bikar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u238	Thank you very much, for there is no need for Joseph to say it exactly, even better than she would have said. I would only add that it is the most important thing from the age of 3 to 7 and then they can also be impressed and have no time to avoid it. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this part? Otherwise, we also have subsection 6.3.2.2 and Chapter 7. To subsection 6.3.2.2, we have the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, SD, the National List and DeSUS. Who wants to discuss this amendment or this content? Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u240	It speaks of a national programme to monitor the readiness of athletes. I'm right, aren't I? Yeah. The diction that will go, voted, speaks of a national strategy for monitoring the readiness of athletes. I have to say here about this year's current events at the Olympic Games that I agree with, but our athletes, the winter ones, have made it happen. Here they achieved the highest science and were the top in the Olympics, at the biggest competition, they were the highest. This has not been the practice of Slovenian athletes so far. Many times they canceled the big competitions, not all of them, but this year the beach broke and almost everyone achieved the best results. I was a very intensive sport observer, but I have to say that one athlete who competed was 8 at the end, one Mariborian, not Flisar – I can't remember his last name – I practically didn't register before. This year our athletes achieved what has so far been typical of American athletes, who had a top-notch competition at the Olympic Games with such motivation that they exploded at that time. I don't know if Tina Maze was just such a stimuli because she's actually an athlete for big competitions, and Prevc didn't quit in big competitions, but this time other athletes joined them. I say they developed American syndrome. Remember, or at least I remember the American Al Oerter disc thrower. Four times in a row, he was an Olympic champion, and then he almost stopped competing. In the Olympic year, he began to compete and won the Olympics again. He wins at the right time. We already have such athletes today, so that what is written is actually a consequence, and I am in favour of transferring this technology, which is now developed by our athletes, and this knowledge into documents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me? SD's time's up. There won't be a time-sharing. We are moving on to the last amendment, or to chapter 7, where the amendment of the members of the positive Slovenia, SD, National List and DeSUS groups has been tabled. Does anyone want to discuss this? It's the content of the sports program. If no one wants to discuss it, we will also conclude this debate. The amendments will be decided in half an hour in accordance with the meeting's schedule, which is to say a few minutes before 5 p.m. The meeting will begin at 5 p.m. with a vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u242	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Please check the operation of the voting devices. We continue with the adjourned 13th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft basic residence law in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a basic residence law is not suitable for further consideration. Can we vote? We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the council has taken a decision. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Drivers Act in the framework of the shorter procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am also informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the draft Law on the State Geodetic Reference System in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am also informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the development restructuring of the region in the context of the shorter procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on takeovers in the framework of the shorter procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am also informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 55 votes against 17. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 21st item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism is suitable for further consideration. Can we make a decision? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u243	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have found that there are huge transactions that can mean that money laundering is involved and, as a result, financing terrorism. We have therefore proposed that the Office responsible be given investigative powers. Investigative powers would mean that the Office would operate more effectively and, of course, also more effectively prevent transactions that involve money laundering. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that, given the number of transactions, the transactions from 2007 to 2013 are increasing, according to the data of this Office, that there are several transactions, that there are larger amounts, that this is being opened up and that the law can also be supplemented by the fact that the Office will also have inspection powers and will therefore be more effective in preventing money laundering in this country. According to some of the data presented, which was also presented in the State Council, it was transferred to the tax havens of €52 billion in Slovenia. That's the sum that's worrying. It means 5 state budgets, which means that, if we limit these transactions, taxes should not be increased, no debt should be owed, and citizens and citizens living in a different environment. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose that you support the fact that the law goes into further consideration, that it may be complemented and that money transactions, including illegal transactions, are actually limited to a number of countries, as well as tax havens, and thus ensure the stability of public finances. From this point of view, we have explained in our own debate all the elements of this law, all the consequences of the non-admission of this law and all the consequences of what happens if this law is actually adopted. I therefore propose that the other parties, including coalition partners, support that the law goes into further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u244	Thank you. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u245	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will support this law or we want to allow further consideration of this proposal of the law prepared by colleagues and colleagues in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We're dealing with the money laundering problem. This is an acute problem not only in the Republic of Slovenia, not only in the European Union, but also at global level. The organization of the United Nations served with information that in 2009 thousands of $600 billion were laundered. This is about 2.7% of the gross social product. Fantastic numbers! With us, the amount of money laundered grows every year, almost doubling. And we think that the office we have, the Anti-Money Laundering Office, needs to change the status. It needs to be given more powers, it may even need to be considered whether it makes sense that this office is a body within the Ministry of Finance. I don't know how the other EU Member States are doing this, but it might be good that this office is closer to the police to give it teeth in some way. Because today it is an office that publishes some financial transactions on the website, as I previously served with data. There are precise financial transactions tables in countries for which the Office itself says they represent and give some status that poses a greater risk in the area of money laundering. I think it is crucial that we consider putting this amendment of the law forward to a second reading, including government assistance, if necessary, and, of course, also through coalition Members and Members, to improve this text of the law, and that we finally take some step forward in preventing money laundering and terrorist financing. Well, on our part, it's support for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u246	Thank you. Explanation of the voice in his own name, Mr Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u247	Thank you very much. The law, which gives the Anti-Money Laundering Office powers and powers, is urgently needed. Previously, everyone agreed that it had been a toothless tiger or a paper tiger. Because of the acute situation of extreme money laundering in our country and thus the country's robbery, it is necessary to send a message from this house that Members are aware of this and will try to end it. Colleagues and colleagues, you have two options, which message you'll send from the coalition, because you make the majority decision. Whether we tell our people that we will stop and prevent these processes of looting that are in our banks, businesses, and we will give our citizens and children the future, the possibility of education, the possibility of kindergarten, or they will lose it all. For if the government supports money laundering, which is being done now, it has ripped the country out to the end. For the opposition, both messages are politically good, because in the second case, the people will mass reject you, they will turn against you, they will realize that you are on the side of those who are robbing this country, who are not willing to do anything to stop these catastrophic processes, this flow of money into the tax havens and the plundering of the future of our young people. But I suggest we send them a positive message together – that we prevent it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u248	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 47. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on the termination of the Biocidal Products Act in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am also informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 19th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft resolution on the national programme on illicit drugs 2014-2020. As the amendments to the supplementary motion for a resolution have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the motion for a resolution. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, the motion for a resolution would not be harmonised. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 4. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 18th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft resolution on the National Programme of Sport in the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2014-2023. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 1 May. 4. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. First, we go to chapter 1. We decide on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Chapter 1. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to subsection 6.1.1 Under point 1 we decide on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to subsection 6.1.1 Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 71 votes against 1. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Under point 2, we decide on the amendment of the parliamentary groups of the Social Democrats, the Civil Gazette and DeSUS to subsection 6.1.1. Here I must warn you that if this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors will become positive Slovenia under number 4 irrelevant. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, Mr Jožef Kavtičnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Your Honor! This amendment, the first amendment of the three coalition groups, is not necessary at all because these contents are now being implemented in schools. Swimming and cycling are already taking place. However, since we have said that the resolution of the national sport programme is ambitious, that it must also be a bit bold, it is right to add some additional content, and these are the content of skiing and dancing. The dance can be performed in compulsory activities of interest, so there is no cost and skiing can be carried out in the centres of school, school and school activities. Centres for school, school and school activities shall be co-financed or financed by the State. And if we have to pay, I'm sure there's still a few reserves here that don't need any extra costs. However, if it is necessary to pay for what children are now paying when they attend these schools in nature, which cannot be attended by everyone, because parents do not have money, and for 17 000 600 children they would need about EUR 700 000. I am sure that our children deserve this, especially those who cannot otherwise be paid by their parents. That is why we will not support this amendment under number 2 in the Positive Slovenia Group so that we can support the amendment I have mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u250	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 24. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Under point 3, we decide on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party to subsection 6.1.1. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 44. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I further inform you that since the amendment of the parliamentary groups of the Social Democrats, the National Gazette and DeSUS under point 2 was adopted, the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia under point 4 has become irrelevant. We're going to sub-section 6.3.2.2. We decide on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to subsection 6.3.2.2. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're going to Chapter 7. We decide on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Chapter 7. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have therefore concluded our decision on the amendments. We are moving on to a full decision on the motion for a resolution. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted at the home work body and at the meeting of the National Assembly, the motion for a resolution would not be harmonised. Can we make a decision? A self-explanation of the vote, Mr. Kavtičnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u251	Thank you very much. I will support the resolution on the National Sport Programme in the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2014-2023. I'm just sorry that you didn't vote for an amendment that would allow children to learn during compulsory schooling, and all the kids, to ski and dance. Skiing as a national sport will once again become the privilege of those who can afford it. Parents who want to ski and do not have these resources will look at all of you who voted against this amendment today with a sour face. Too bad it wouldn't cost anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u252	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the 23rd meeting of the assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 9 a.m. See you tomorrow.
