ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 66th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Barbara Žgainer, Mrs. Irena Tavčar, mag. Melita Župevc, Mrs Sonja Ramšak, Mrs Janja Attack, Mr Jakob Presečnik, Mr Franc Bogovič, Mr Matjaž Zanoškar, Mr Franc Jurša, Mr Bojan Starman – is among us, so this forecast does not apply – and Mr Srečko Meh until 13:00. I also invited government representatives to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 66th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday 23 May 2014, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that the agenda of the 66th extraordinary meeting be extended by consideration of the proposal for a decision appointing a Vice-President of the Commission for Rules of Procedure. The extension proposal was received by letter dated 27 May 2014 and is published on the e-club. Does Mr. Jožef Kavtičnik want to speak as a representative of the motioner? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? I note that no, so I am concluding the debate on the proposal for enlargement. We're moving on to decision-making. Therefore, I ask you to check the functioning of the voting devices. Can we decide on the extension? We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 65 votes against 1. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. At the same time, I inform you that the assembly will consider the voting enlargement as item 3 of the agenda, following a final vote on item 2 of the agenda. We are moving on to a full vote on the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as received by reference and with a follow-up. Can we make a decision? We are voting on the agenda as a whole. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 66th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is the third defence proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the determination of catastronomic income within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 26 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank. The wording of the bill was prepared by the services of the National Assembly for the third reading. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposers of the proposal of the Magi Act. Andrei Vissiak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u2	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The government mandate of Alenka Bratusek marked some interesting but less enjoyable events. We witnessed an increase in taxes. Remember, the value added tax has risen, the income will be higher this year and the next year will be higher, and excise duties have already been legalised higher, thank God the failed attempt to introduce a real estate tax, and also an extraordinary surprise for farmers and all agricultural land owners was a novel of the Cadastrian Income Law. Of course, in addition to these tax increases, the mandate also recorded a huge debt, more than €10 billion in just one year, and also that the Government was totally without a concept, without a reform programme, continued several projects of the previous government, did not undertake major reform projects in the field of health and where. Respected, the increase in taxes, which was some red thread of this government, and the concrete proposal by which this government came, is said by the amendment of the Cadastrian Income Law, especially those farmers, or those who process permanent crops, vineyards and orchards, would have taxed more than 2 to 3 times as yet. This is an enormous increase in taxes for those who are working, who, last but not least, are implementing a self-sustainment policy in Slovenia or the processing of Slovenian land, and thus are essentially preventing the cultivation of this land. We have therefore proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party the amendment of the law under consideration today, and this novel retains cadastral income this year and next year at the level of the previous year, which means that there will be a minimum of 70 million lower tax burdens on, in particular, permanent crops and forests this year than it would have been if a government tax increase strategy were to be imposed on agriculture as well. The continuous increase in taxes naturally reduces competitiveness and reduces the motivation of Slovenian farmers and, last but not least, others to cultivate Slovenian land and to support themselves as well as future generations. The constant change in taxes also adds uncertainty and discourages farmers from investing in the urgent modernisation of permanent crops in terms of irrigation, in terms of counter-current protection and in the sense of other measures that increase production and thus increase the competitiveness of this production. The increase in taxes, the change in taxes, therefore, has an extremely negative impact on this important economic activity, on agriculture, particularly when we are talking about permanent crops, orchards, especially intensive ones, as well as vineyards. Such a policy of raising and changing taxes also has negative consequences when we talk about the settlement of the Slovenian countryside and the processing of the Slovenian landscape, especially in areas with severe processing or where additional incentives should be introduced, but not by taxing and modifying these taxes against food production, in particular fruit. The concept, as outlined by the Government some bad year ago, is to tax the forest owners further. It's like nature is actually resisting this with the incredible effects of the acorn. And here we can see that the government had no other concept than how to draw as much money from these natural treasures of Slovenia for the current spending and overcoming the need for serious reforms and the balancing of public finances. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose that taxation, when we talk about cadastral income, is maintained at the level of the previous year, so that it does not increase, as the Government has outlined. In doing so, we want to encourage producers and producers, and in this way we want to do agriculture well. I therefore hope that this law will also receive support in this third reading, and that it will announce it despite the threatening dissolution of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u3	Thank you. We continue with the opinion of the Government. In order to present my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mag. Matthew Vraničar, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u4	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The cadastral income law was not adopted last year but was adopted in 2011. Last year, the delay in 2012 led to the first calculation of the cadastral income according to the methodology laid down by the 2011 law. This calculation showed the potential problems of some input data, in particular more detailed statistics on production intensity at the level of statistical regions and data on common prices. The high response rate of the chosen cadastral income to changes in input data has also been demonstrated, which can significantly change calculations in small coordination. This, of course, has a significant impact on the conclusion of the cadastral income. Catastrophe income is not a tax, but a potential market income for a particular culture is found on a given land. The shortcomings identified in last year suggested an amendment, an urgent amendment to the Cadastrian Income Law, which smoothed the rise of cadastral income in last year, and a decision of the Government, after which the Government formed a special working group of experts and representatives of the relevant departments to examine the methodology used and report to the Government. The Government received its first interim report in February this year, in which the Working Group draws attention to some of the solutions to be reviewed, although it generally notes that, from a methodological point of view, the applicable method of calculating cadastral income is generally appropriate. In the light of the amendments proposed by the Working Group, the Working Group assessed that a longer transitional period was needed to prepare these corrections or to address the deficiencies mentioned above. The bill proposed by a group of Members in the legislative procedure answers the same questions raised by the Government. Therefore, the Government supported the draft law at first reading and proposed certain additions in the course of the second reading that addressed the shortcomings of the legislative proposal. In the light of all the amendments adopted, which were adopted in the second reading, both at the meeting of the home working body and at the meeting of the National Assembly, the Government considers that the proposal for a law, as presented by third reading, is appropriate and proposes to the State Assembly to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u5	Thank you, too. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Marija Plevčak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! In the DeSUS Group, we supported the proposal of the Cadastrian Income Act in the first and second readings. The concrete solutions brought about by the novelties of the law have already been mentioned in previous discussions. The key thing that we have already achieved on the parent body in the context of second reading is that the calculation of cadastral revenues is temporarily resolved, i.e. during a transitional period of three years. In fact, it was originally set up for only two years, this year for another year's extension. I will only add that, at the second national assembly hearing, we have also confirmed the amendment to that article which raises the share of the actual use for agricultural and forestry parcels by more than half. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we think it makes sense to raise this percentage from the original 20, because with such a low share of the owners we only cause costs. In the DeSUS Group, we therefore expect to be aware of the possible damage caused by this time lapse, and because of the lack of consistency of this law we also expect a new law. As has already been said, we support the proposed solutions in the DeSUS Group, which is why we will not oppose the proposed legal solutions in the framework of the vote at the third reading of the Member and the Member of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. We note, however, that the regime of cadastral income lasts too long, has only been extended for many years, and that it is necessary to proceed immediately to the preparation of the relevant law, so that after 2016 we will not discuss the renewal of the deadlines for the cadastral income assessment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Madam Secretary of State, a good day to you all! Let me begin by saying that Members of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will support the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Cadastrian Income Law in the third reading, as we supported it in the first and second readings. We are pleased that the law shows well that it is supported by the Government and virtually all Members and Members of Parliament. But there's a problem. The problem remains, of course, because this does not mean that we have a solved methodology for determining cadastral income. Ladies and gentlemen, how can a young farmer decide to take over the farm today, May 2014, because he does not know what awaits him after 2016? This problem remains. The law is now in some latent state, in some sleep, and can quickly be revived and will in fact be cadastral income after 2016 as the legislator envisioned in 2011, that is, high, which will mean a new tax burden for Slovenian agriculture, and this is not good. Let me explain the reasons for our decision, for the decision of the New Slovenia Group. The cadastral income law entered into force at the end of February 2011 and applied as from 1. Seven. 2011. This new law introduced new foundations for the identification of cadastral income, which is the basis for the taxation of farmers, which compensated for the previous flat-rate taxation of agricultural land. Last year, the first public decomposition of the cadastral income scale was carried out, which showed that the calculations were unrealistically high compared to the previous calculations, and errors were also shown in the calculations themselves. In particular, the illogical differences were illogical when compared to the assessment of individual types of agricultural land use as well as forests in individual statistical regions. Let me illustrate this with an example. The catastronomic income of the country of the best quality, 90 to 100 credit points, is estimated at EUR 177 in the Central Slovenian region and EUR 277 in the Inland Krajina region, although the climate conditions, the conditions of processing and, last but not least, the conditions of sale in the Central Slovenian region are significantly better than in the Inland-Karska region. Similarly, we could speak about other statistical regions, such as the pomurska region. The scale of the calculation of the cadastral income has therefore proved inappropriate. For this reason, the previous government, which is our government, has proposed an extension of the deadline for the transition to a new cadastral income system under the current law for one year, so that the increase in cadastral income for 2013 may be higher by up to 10% compared to 2012. Despite the extension of the deadline, however, it is noted that the corrected grounds under this law are not yet ready, so the extension of the transitional period in which the cadastral income calculation scale is frozen to the cadastral income level for 2013 for a further three years is necessary until the end of 2016. In Novi Slovenija, we strongly oppose the increase in cadastral income, as is the result of last year's public scales, which is the sum of several times the current cadastral income. The transition to a new, more modern way of calculating cadastral income is, in our opinion, necessary, but should not lead to significant increases in cadastral income and consequently increase the tax burden of the Slovenian farmer. Indeed, the taxation of farmers has a significant impact on the economic situation of farms and their family budget. Catastrophe income is included in the income of farmers, affects the obligation to manage farm bookkeeping on the basis of actual income and expenditure. The management of accounting by actual income and expenditure means much more than tax but also administrative burden for farmers, especially if we take into account the age structure of the owners of farms in Slovenia. Catastrophe income also affects the eligibility of farmers and their family members to social security benefits, which is very important. In particular, we stress the right to scholarships for students and students. It is further concerned with child supplements, protective supplements, payment of kindergartens and the like. Members of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats believe that this is an additional three-year transitional period long enough to make the necessary correction of the cadastral income scales and, if necessary, to amend the legislative bases that will allow for a modern and fair system of taxation of owners of agricultural land and forests. As has already been said, our support for the proposed amendment of the Cadastrian Income Law is guaranteed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u9	Thank you, too. Mr Zvonko Lah will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u10	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are adopting this law at an extraordinary session because if we waited for a regular meeting, it could already be too late due to the dissolution of Parliament and this law would not be adopted at all, or if we were waiting for the Government to put such a law into the procedure. Indeed, already in 2011, when this law was passed, when Finance Minister Križanič of the SD and Minister of Agriculture, Mr Židan, was also adopted, and was due to be enforced only in 2013, on the basis of the first calculation bases and scales of the cadastral income, brought 300 million KD, an abnormal amount compared to the old calculation of the cadastral income for 2012, which amounted to a good EUR 60 million. With this law, we have practically resolved the increase in cadastral income for 2014 from 47.8 million in 2013 to 113 million euros in 2014. Given that certain calculation bases for field areas were reduced for 2013, the total KD, although increased by 10% for those crops such as permanent plantations and forests where the calculation was higher, was lower, from 60 million to even 47.8 million. So if we left the calculation bases that were ready for 2014, some farmers with permanent crops and forests would still pay a triple or even a fivefold catastronomic income compared to 2013. Of course, those with predominantly field surfaces are significantly less. With this law and with the Real Estate Tax Act, this government has delivered a particularly severe blow to farmers and rural areas, where it would be practical to destroy rural areas. It was the Slovenian Democratic Party that first submitted a constitutional assessment of the Real Estate Tax Act, which was then abolished, thanks to God. And we have also now introduced a law to reduce the cadastral income for 2014 and 2015. I am glad that then the Government has found and added 2016 to be enough time to prepare a new base, a new way of calculating the cadastral income. We even propose that the Government should follow the example of neighbouring countries, Austria, Germany, where agricultural land is otherwise taxed. It bothers us why this government and the former Pahor’s government have thrown this law away or turned it into a burden on the countryside and the farmers. Even now, farmers are not competitive with foreign farmers from neighbouring countries because of the structure of the land, but the Government has wanted to tax rural areas and agricultural land with agricultural facilities by destroying them. Why would the government not work in the direction of how this small structural property or small farms, which are on average 6.5 hectares and especially in an area with limited agricultural factors – why not encourage the processing of agricultural crops, to increase the added value of these farms to survive and not to destroy them? Is the reason why small farms need to be destroyed, so that most of the quality land of these small farms gets larger farmers and the small ones virtually cease farming with the rest of the land, and the cultivation of agricultural land will continue to increase? I simply cannot believe that agricultural policy, as governed by this government and the current agricultural minister, is being pursued. Why should grow grapes and sell grapes all of a sudden because they don't bring any? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u11	Mr Lah, let me remind you that the agenda item is the law amending and supplementing the Cadastrian Income Act, not the agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u12	What is different, although it is under the auspices of the Ministry of Finance, it is pure agricultural policy and the destruction of agriculture. Let me tell you about the case. Why should these small vine growers who grow on these slopes, 20 per cent and more, grapes which are certainly as good or better due to climate conditions as they are in Austria, with blue francs selling 15 euros per litre in Austria, and farmers selling grapes to us because they were also unable to sell their crops with the Wine Act. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is essential that the cadastral income also begin to be accounted for or found otherwise, perhaps as in neighbouring countries, where agricultural policy will be substantially different than it is now. In our party, we are pleased that this law, which is one of the few that will be adopted, will make a significant contribution to reducing the tax burden on agriculture and rural areas.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u13	Thank you. Mr Branko Ficko will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u14	President, it's a beautiful day for all of us! In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, we will also support the proposal of the Cadastrian Income Law in the third reading. At that, of course, allow me to reiterate our already well-known position. Predictability of the amount of the contribution to be paid by the farmer on the basis of the cadastral income is very important, especially in the light of the regulated conditions for farming and development planning. It is unacceptable that each year a farmer wonders in particular what the amount of his contribution will be. Let us remember, of course, that the Cadastrian Income Recognition Act was adopted in 2011 and its implementation was postponed to 2013. This is a period of three governments. Instead of data on the cadastral class, the new methodology covered data on landworthiness. It turns out that the calculations made under the new methodology were largely based on incorrect or inadequate data. As a result, the 2013 amendment introduced a solution that will only apply in 2014, whereas for 2013 it was considered that all land for which the newly calculated cadastral income is higher than that of more than 10 % would be considered old. At that time, new calculations were promised to be properly harmonised, and this did not happen. Today, of course, we will accept the freezing of calculations to the state in 2013. However, the transitional period is extended until 2016, once again with the promise of a new methodology. I only hope that, in this case, the input data will be more appropriate so that we do not have to repeat the scenario of the imposition of the property tax. We are, of course, wondering what the relevant services or civil servants have been doing since 2011, regardless of which government they were. If the new methodology is based on incorrect data, of course responsibility must be sought. And if we use this freezing to protect the owners of agricultural and forest land in one way, the country will lose in this period. It is important to take into account that the current cadastral income on average is about €60 million, and the country receives about 6 million out of this. On the other hand, data on realisation in agriculture show about 350 million added value. At the same time, of course, there is still an annual contribution to the agriculture of European money and the country's participation of about 400 million. So there is still a lot of open questions about the correct level of burden on cadastral income. Of course, as I mentioned earlier, in Positive Slovenia we will support the amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u15	Thank you, too. Mr Mirko Brulc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u16	Nice greetings to all present! The amendment of the law seeks to achieve a fair and proportionate tax burden for the Slovenian farmer, thereby ensuring its existence and functioning in the future. A solution is proposed to limit the level of cadastral income in 2014, 2015 and 2016 to the level of cadastral income as measured in 2013. This follows the principle of proportionality by adapting new calculations to real levels of income. In the Social Democrats, we have already supported the law at first reading, so we will now, because the calculations of cadastral income on the basis of the new methodology may be problematic. This needs to be changed for a longer transitional period. By regulating the extension of the transitional period, the whole cadastral income determination procedure is simplified by simply freezing the cadastral income amounts to the state on 31 August 2013, which no longer requires the implementation of new annual cadastral income calculations during the transitional period. At the same time, the possibility of all parcels with the same type of actual use being attributed comparable to cadastral income is also regulated during the transitional period, which also allows for the determination of cadastral income for newly created parcels and for plots to which actual use has changed. As it is said, the Group of Social Democrats will support the Act amending and supplementing the Cadastrian Income Act, but I am convinced that there is no need for a four-hour debate with regard to the adoption of the Act, unless it is a free pre-election EPP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u17	Thank you, too. Mr Aljoša Jerič will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u18	Thank you, too. Nice greeting on my part, too! Respected and respected! At the time of the adoption of the law in 2011, the Government ensured that the starting points for the new methodology for the determination of cadastral income were very similar to those previously applied to the cadastral income system. In theory, both between the old cadastral income and the market income calculated, there should be no significant differences. Simulations made using a model developed under the Project Development of a new method for determining cadastral income, which served as a basis for the preparation of the final model taking into account the 2008 prices, suggest that cadastral income on quality land could increase significantly and on poorer land could also be significantly reduced. Taking into account the 2008 prices, the cadastral income would normally increase in the fields and slightly lower in the grass, which includes most of the livestock income. For most processing land with a very low number of credit points, this is less than 40 credit points and the found cadastral income may even be negative. The previous methodology for the determination of cadastral income was based on data from the land cadastral data on agricultural and forest areas, namely data on cadastral culture reflecting actual land use and the cadastral class indicating the production capacity of the land. The new methodology, instead of the data on the cadastral class, covers the data on landworthiness and, instead of the cadastral cultures, the actual use is taken into account and instead of the cadastral districts of the statistical region. On 20 May 2013, the Geodetic Authority issued a new proposal for the calculation of cadastral income. The new law of 2013 also introduced a solution that would only apply new cadastral income calculations in 2014, whereas for 2013 it was considered that all lands with new cadastral income higher than the old one by more than 10 % would be considered by the old one, i.e. those that were lower and accounted for for for 2012. New calculations should be made publicly available for next year through Gursa by 20 September of the current year at the latest. For this year's new methodology, informational calculations should be available by 20 September at the latest. Since these informational calculations, which should be available by this date at the latest, have not yet been made available, the proposal for the law that we are considering today provides that the level of cadastral income is calculated in the same way as it was done last year. In the Group of Non-Related Members, we believe that the predictability of the amount of the contribution to be paid by a farmer on the basis of the cadastral income is important, since also on this basis a farmer may decide how to determine the income of his primary activity, i.e. the possibility of deciding between the flat-rate income assessment or the management of accounting and the identification of cadastral income on the basis of actual income and expenditure. The latter option may also be linked to the costs of possible accounting, which, of course, also affects the decision on how to determine cadastral income. In the Group of Non-Related Members, we also believe that a period of three years should be provided for the harmonisation and correction of the methodology, and at that time the cadastral income would have to be accounted for as high as in 2013. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Cadastrian Income Law will be supported for all that is said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u19	Thank you, too. Mr Marko Pavlisič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, a respected colleague, a respected colleague! Information calculations for the calculation of cadastral income under the new methodology should be made available by 20 September 2013 at the latest for this year. Since these informational calculations have not yet been made, the proposal for a law that we have today under consideration foresees that the level of cadastral income is calculated at the same level as it was done last year. There was an emergency, a temporary solution that would allow an emergency exit. In the Civil Gazette, we will support the bill. However, let me add that we have in the National Assembly all too many laws that we adopt and are later difficult to implement or that someone decides to ignore them smoothly. And so it begins by looking for some emergency exits, and halfway through the rotten compromises that satisfy formalism, they move away from the actions set out and cause only confusion. In the Civil Gazette, we have to ask ourselves whether these emergency exits and temporary solutions may not become a constant on the subject of cadastral income. You know, it's temporary solutions that last the longest. In the Citizen’s Letter, this seems to us to be such an action, to say the least, unserious. It also raises a question of who is in the interest of not moving or whether the marriage base is really so bad or difficult to use or maybe someone does not want things to move because he lacks the courage to change and rather waits for better times. We are increasingly aware that there are strong lobbyes in Slovenian society that have good connections in politics and state authorities and are willing to defend their kindergartens at all costs. In the Civil Gazette, we expect all those responsible to faithfully do their work and consistently implement the legislation and to make sure that we move forward instead of stepping in. It was enough to accept unnecessary legal changes and laws, while those who would need them remain in drawers or stop at some commission. We are still awaiting the implementation law of the Golden Fiscal Rule, we still do not have a classification and a strategy for the management of state property, and the proposal of the Civil Gazette for amendments to the Law on Access to Information of a Public Inventory is still unconscionable from Europe. For the third time, I politely ask the President of the National Assembly to ensure that the necessary formal papers are obtained so that we can continue the adoption process. It is time to step forward and create a better future.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u21	Thank you. Mr Marko Pavlišič, I must also remind you that you have misused the provision of the position of the Group of Members on the Cadastrian Income Act. For the third time, however, I explain to you that we are committed to asking the European Central Bank to take a position on the law you are referring to and, once it is received, we will proceed with the procedure. Mr Janez Ribič has the floor to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, President of the National Assembly. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have pointed out several times the enormous increase in agricultural burdens in 2014, from the inclusion of the full amount of agricultural subsidies in the tax base, the increase in cadastral income and the mandatory bookkeeping for all those engaged in agricultural activities and their annual income of more than €7,000,500, to the failed real estate tax. As in previous discussions, we will also support the proposed amendments to the Cadastrian Income Identification Act in the third. Let me remind you that in last May's Group of Members, we were the first to draw attention to the controversial methodology on the basis of which new cadastral income calculations were made. These, as we know, constitute the basis for taxation of agricultural and forestry activities. Initially, the proposed calculations or estimated value of the cadastral income calculated on the basis of the new methodology were shocking, as some values of the estimated cadastral income increased by ten times or more. Indirectly, this would mean a marked increase in the tax liability for owners of agricultural land and forests and the loss of a type of social rights, so that I do not even mention disasters for a Slovenian farmer. Last but not least, the inconsistencies of the prescribed methodology have been demonstrated in the differences in the projected increase in cadastral income, estimated at EUR 311 million after the initial calculations, and after repeated calculations based on the same methodology, these values have decreased significantly, for example, to around EUR 113 million for 2014, almost twice the amount of catastronomic income collected in 2012, when it amounted to around EUR 63 million. This is therefore a clear indication that the methodology for calculating cadastral income is significantly flawed as it allows for a significant difference in final calculations on the same input data. The profession also made it clear that in the methodology there are strong inconsistencies which cannot in any way constitute the basis for a correct assessment of the potential value of agricultural land and forests on which fair taxation would follow. This is also noted in its opinion by the Government, which does not oppose the proposed law and has also proposed an amendment to the Committee to extend the current regime to 2016. All inconsistencies led to the adoption last June of the new Cadastrian Income Identification Act, which, in addition to the 10% cap on cadastral income for 2013, also eliminated certain methodological deficiencies in forestry, where the calculation of cadastral income in addition to land credit also tied to the growth coefficient and the law also introduced the cadastral income determination procedure for the year ahead. This means that new calculations must be published by 30 June of the current year and that income estimates should be taken into account in the following year. The proposed amendment of the Cadastrian Income Act, which we will adopt today and the amendments adopted by the Committee, has extended the transitional solution established by the last amendment of this Act, namely the 10% cap at the level of the cadastral income, to 2014, 2015 and 2016. However, new agricultural and forestry parcels created after 31 August 2013 are subject to a new formula for the calculation of the cadastral income which, according to our Group of Members, is appropriate. Therefore, we will be pleased to support the proposed amendment by the Member and Members of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u23	Thank you, too. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members on the draft law as a whole. The word has magic. Katarina Hočevar, Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. I welcome the secretary of state with the co-worker and all present! Yes, even today several half-truths were said in the presentation of the parliamentary groups. The fact is that we have a method of cadastral income, the system itself, which has somehow been established since 1979, and that is why the fact, even because of the parameters that have changed, and when they are no longer being run, has to be changed. The new law was adopted in 2011. Since then, it will obviously be six years, when I think we will be able to bring about a simpler reform of the system, I hope, however, that we will also be able to put into practice. I would like to point out that, in essence, this law or this system of reconstruction of the cadastral system points to one major cancer in Slovenia, namely one major reform failure. If we are unable to deal with one such issue, such as how we will determine cadastral income, which I think we need only a little healthy human or farmers' minds, how we will only carry out those necessary structural reforms that must be if we are to get out of the crisis. A sad or ridiculous matter, for example, took place last year. After we had previously postponed the validity of the Cadastrian Income Law twice, the Government adopted a regulation on the determination of cadastral income calculations. However, at the same letter meeting on 31 August 2013, she also adopted a decision and imposed on Gursa, the Ministry of Finance and also the Ministry of Agriculture, that they should establish a group and, in essence, verify the accuracy of the calculations, review the methodology and propose amendments. This is said when we do not bring changes into practice at all, we are already talking about what is wrong or what needs to be changed. But there will be no mistake, that regulation has been a disaster, and I have also made it public many times that you cannot produce as much on the premurks as on the saviacs and that this should be clear to experts who, I don't know, have been making or making calculations for five years, how this cadastral income should be calculated after a new one. Because we are not talking about the tax; the cadastral income is just one flat-rate income assessment if I make it very simple or domestically say how much you can produce on one hectare of land. This is essentially how much of this farmer can have on this hectare or on this land income. And the fact that we don't know how to deal with this in six years, that we don't know how many institutions and different working groups to take action, but we're talking at the same meeting about how we're going to change is a disaster for me. The fact is that the cadastral income so far, and even when, I hope, according to one common sense, it is not the biggest bar or the cancer of Slovenian agriculture. Many words have been said on this subject by now until the third reading, but I think it would be better if we had a special session or a proposal mainly on how to protect small hill farms, how not to introduce a system, in the new financial perspective – I would like to point out this out publicly, because I hope that this will not happen – only those who will be employed in the farm can be the recipients of the action for young takers. Although it may at first sight be a welcome move to encourage large farms and increase self-sustainment, but forgive me, we do not have such large farms in Zasavje that we can only deal with this. Our masters, our young takeovers must unfortunately go to work. And they say to me, "Dear Member, I would love to work on the farm, but if I could live on it." The next paradox that is also taking place in the agricultural administrations: agricultural policy measures or this system, not direct payments, but rural development programmes. Young takers who can then run for agricultural investment bids – a third-place mammal after meat production, that is to say after meat production, have collected half the points that should have been taken into account in order to be able to receive the funds from this measure. What do I mean by that? The rules and calls are again made for big ones, so I won't say Premur because I don't want to say it, the farm. We have forgotten again about the small hill farmer on those difficult farming conditions where the conditions for production are more difficult. And these are the key issues of Slovenian agriculture, but not, respected colleagues and colleagues, including those who refer to this meeting, to the cadastral income. This is, of course, a nice topic to talk about, and we say: The government of Alenka Bratušek raises taxes. Firstly, we have not raised anything in this area because we have prevented this together or will have to go through the profession once again to determine this cadastral income by one such common sense and soundness of mind. As I said, once again, a warning to the competent ministries, in the new financial perspective, do not work to limit young take-overs in a way that makes them compulsory on the farm. They will be happy to do so when income allows. As long as this is not the case, it is necessary to farm in addition to the job to bring the farm to this stage, and also to give new jobs. And on the other hand, of course, let us give invitations to work not to the extent of Europe, but to the extent of the Slovenian farmer. And there is also a challenge for the old, new European Members to negotiate for the devil in the European Parliament that these funds coming from this title will be to the extent and for the benefit of the Slovenian farmer, not only those couples that I can count on the fingers of one, two deadlines given to those who exceed 150 000 euros in subsidies. There's very few of them. Those who are actually stuttering at our farms in order to be mutilated, not to heal our landscape, and to practically invest in their salaries and pensions that our smaller Slovenian farms still live on – they should also be looked at. And that is what I think is the real problem of Slovenian agriculture. Of course I'll support this marriage. And I hope that those who are in regular service this time will do the job by correctly calculating how much from Prekmurje to Primorska is to be processed and that this income is to be determined honestly. That's all I wanted to say. In case I accidentally earned myself a replica, I'll tell you in advance that was my purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u25	I don't know if there's going to be a replica, because there are any possible discussions below. However, it is probably my duty to point out that you have gone far beyond the content that is now enshrined in the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Cadastrian Income Law. Excuse me? As a proposaler, he has the word mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u26	Thank you very much. This was also behind the pay phone, from the previous debate to hear that this is a nice topic for us to have a little talk about. That's literally what was said. Your Honor, this isn't a nice topic to have a little chat with. If this law were not addressed here in Parliament today and adopted, this would mean that 2014 would be subject to cadastral income, which would mean several times the burden of farmers and farmers. A few times higher. Instead, 47 million or more would have been seized between 120 and 130 million of the catastrian income collected. Ask, please, owners or producers of intensive plantations, as well as, say, fruit growers, vine growers, forest owners, what they think about it, is it a nice topic to talk a little. This is a topic that has a direct effect in the pockets of growers. Look, it's also a problem if we're not able to agree on anything. I think we're capable of making a lot of arrangements. In the second government of Janez Janša we have also proved this, we have agreed on important reforms, although they are not likely to be ideal, but they are an important step forward, such as pension reform and labour market reform, where international institutions are also witnessing and talking about an important step in the right direction. That means we're capable of making a deal. We just need to listen a little. We need to listen to that the solutions we design are good for as wide a circle as possible. And I will say what I think is most wrong in the proposed Cadastrian Income Law, indeed, from 2011, adopted by the Borut Pahor government, which also includes the current agricultural minister. What's the problem? The problem is that, of course, it determines the cadastral income, which is not actually what can be produced on land, but how can it be financially, i.e. the financial income generated on land. That's the whole point of the cadastral income. But he throws everything into the same basket. I will say, for example, to the winegrower, for example, in the winegrower in the bizel-sremish wine-growing environment or in any other environment of any of the three wine-growing countries in this country. He throws into the same basket of wine growers, which, of course, he sells in the form of buttocks and also achieves excellent results and, of course, he can market his wine at relatively high prices, and at the same time a wine grower who processes one bitterly, as we say, because he inherited it because he loves it, because it also means recreation to him and because it keeps the appearance of our natural landscape. Both have the same cadastral income squared or their own surface. Does that make sense? It doesn't make sense, and of course it can't make sense. This will also crush those who insist and cultivate today the Slovenian land that is on these scattered plots – of course, these plants are huge, such and different, and now we do have some relatively favourable taxation or this cadastral income and people are doing it. If we raise this for a few times, as was the proposal of these 'fahmans', who are meeting and making various proposals, which then mean in nature what we have repeatedly stressed, then many of them will leave this production, the old vineyards will be cut down, the landscape will be healed. And what's the result? Of this, even the small cadastral income that has been so far will not be, and the neglected landscape will also have a miserable man, because he had to cut down his family vineyard, which he inherited from his ancestors. We have already burdened the farmers in this country with so much nonsense that it is simply necessary to make an end of it once. And this cadastral income is precisely because of these different situations that are treated equally, these illogicalities have occurred. Your Honor, we can't agree on this. How do you think we will agree that we will agree to one fruit grower as well, say, living from apples – in Brežice, where I live, we have quite a few strong fruit growers who are today faced with challenges of how to update these fruit trees. They've got to get the flow nets, they've got to fix the irrigation. We know that we have these climate changes, that they are droughts, and so on, we know that we have several times the point that we have a variety of storms. So these people are in an investment cycle because they have to adapt to the challenges of the time we live on if they want to live on. And to these people, the country now prescribes a 3-fold higher cadastral income, and forget that we have agreed in this Parliament that we aim to self-sustain ourselves, that we want production on Slovenian land to be as much as possible in terms of consumption and so on. So on the one hand, we want to essentially develop this industry, and on the other hand, we throw pollen under its feet. It just doesn't work. And it is clear to me that the idea of the Cadastrian Income Act 2011 was a fundamental objective of how to obtain as much money in the State budget, regardless of the harmful consequences that I have mentioned. Look, in this Parliament in 2001, 13 years ago, we were talking about a drill. At that time, the amendment of the Wine Act, where we determined that the cricket and some other types of CTU were recognised as traditional designation. We talked a lot, and then we found out, there were also books about how the drill is actually a way of life in a lot of parts of Dolenjska, that people usually have vineyards around houses, a little, I don't know, 300 to a thousand, a thousand 500 vines, they process them, they hang out there, and it's their way of life. This is their way of life, and now those who can't actually market this drill at the same price as the big producers who bottle wine and sell it on the shelves of our shopping malls or in other ways can't get the same prices. And for them we calculate the same cadastral income as some average crop price they can make. Although it is clear to everyone that a vinegrower with 300 vines cannot reach this price because he has neither the quantity nor the technology, nor the knowledge to do so. And the result is that we both throw you in the same basket, and that little guy who's doing it today, and he's more or less costing him, we'll definitely, if not an old master who's today, and whoever inherits it, prepare him to leave it. And 10 years from now, there will be no more practice. I hope it does, but it won't make sense. So I would really suggest to all those who appeal that we have to agree on such matters, that you also talk to us, not that you come to us with an unacceptable solution, which means such and other harmful consequences, and you expect us to nod either quietly or loudly. In fact, I am also pleased that some Members and particularly Members of Parliament in recent days or in recent weeks have come to realize how much nonsense you have been doing in this mandate. Then, of course, you forget that with some bureaucratic obstacles and unacceptable solutions, you have already burdened both forest owners and these, especially small people who are working in the Slovenian countryside to survive and not eventually to survive us, because we too live off their stings or taxes they pay. And you've introduced all kinds of carriers and valuations, and I don't know what else. However, you did not engage in monopolies, some of which have a lot of them, and Slovenian citizens have only bad and expensive services such as chimney concessions, such as, say, forest concessions, logging and so on. These are vital problems that burden the Slovenian countryside and, last but not least, the Slovenian taxpayers and all those we have to, I don't know, smoker or pay for anything else to get our heads hurt, but we wonder why. So I believe that everyone accompanying the work in this House also has some attitude towards those who have now lashed out in the last few days or weeks, of those who have already been alerting us to these deviations, which were present in the Slovenian government of Alenka Bratušek, when she saw the only way to balance public finances with new burdens, both tax and bureaucratic. I simply cannot agree with this, and that is why we have also proposed this amendment to the law. And please don't tell me again that it's a nice topic to have a little chat with. This fine topic is an expensive topic for Slovenian producers. If we hadn't talked about it today, it would probably have been a higher cadastral income this year, which would have hit the pocket dramatically, especially those small producers, which I don't know for sure, 95% in this country. Think first of the small, says the European river when we talk about the economy, and agriculture is also an important segment of the economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u27	Thank you. The replica has a mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. I didn't want to repeat myself from the debate when we discussed this law in the first reading, but at the time I stressed that even if your parliamentary group hadn't tabled this law, the government was already in session 3. 4. adopted a decision and instructed the Ministry of Finance to prepare a new Law on the identification of cadastral income in a manner or in a direction that you then submitted. But there is no problem, whether the government or the opposition or the parliamentary group, but it is not right for the public to say that if there were no such meeting today, the cadastral income or this method of identification would rise to the heights. It's not specific. The next thing I want – Mr Vizjak has repeatedly used my word "concrete". I wanted to point out and say this: I was the first to leave the cadastral income to the donkeys as it had been or that it would have been in 2011 and after we had extended it together in the Government in 2012, I said that it would be 10 % up there forever, as it had been before, or that we would have found one simpler solution. And that's how the guilt is distributed. Even in the previous government, when our Minister Janez Šuštersič was Minister, we extended the matter. Why? Because nothing was done in Gurs. And my debate went to the point that I wanted to draw attention not to what we can agree on, but to the fact that, in these years and these six years, when the system is in place, a lot of money has been spent, and not just one meeting of the National Assembly, but they are officials, project groups, working groups, ministries, the bodies involved. Do you remember in 2011, Mr. Vizjak, when we were in government together, what was written under that law, under that novel, why we put it away? Because there was no money on the budget line for Gurs to establish a computer system and to connect it together with the land book and the Earth disaster and make a computer application. That was the reason back then. And in fact, we all have responsibilities together. I would like to point out that we are now extending again, but the first thing is that the solution will be just, that we will not be 14 times, as has been said many times, burdened our officials, but we must also pour ourselves pure wine and all of us, especially our ministry services, executive branch, seek simple solutions and be as cheap as possible. I just wanted to warn you about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u29	Thank you. The text is wanted by the proposer of mags. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u30	Two things you don't hold. First, if it were not for this extraordinary session — what would it be? Then the marriage would hang in another reading. Given the likely scenario that Parliament can be dissolved within a week or two, this means that the law would not be adopted. It's very simple. For if the law in the second reading is dealt with and the third hearing is foretold, and the third treatment is not for the dissolution of Parliament, then there is no law. Am I wrong, Madam President? I think so. Then there's no marriage. Then are the early elections, the formation of a new government. There can be no new government. I don't know, given these electoral results, the same chaos of the parties and the parties after the next national elections – and what? KD 2014, the cadastral income, would be several times higher than many. So there is, respected, no deceiving or any false speaking or hinting that if these extraordinary sessions were not, and today's debate would not be that the cadastral income would be very, very likely to be significantly higher. That's what I was talking about. And that is probably true — unlikely, 100 percent. That's one thing I wanted to talk about. The other thing is this one. Look, you mentioned the government in 2012. In 2012, the government solved the imported situation inherited by the passed law of 2011. In 2011, the government of Borut Pahor adopted a law that enforced this new methodology, which I think is missing. And here I ask again, perhaps the secretary of state, to try to answer me one simple deviation, or one illogicality, inanimateness and danger of an existing solution, the concept of an existing solution based, of course, on the purchase prices of crops and costs and so on. And these are general ransoms This is a very similar problem to the real estate tax. [[...]] It is said that we have a general common price, which is so valid for those who even exceed this ransom price, because they can market it and so on, they have their markets, and one lover, a small producer of wine, fruit or anything that makes it a lover. So these two are on the same page. For the two of them, it's actually the same tax. Is that fair? I don't think that's fair. I don't think that's fair. Why not? Because, of course, he has a small producer by producing this — he does not do it for economic gain, but he does it because of the circumstances in which he found himself, or that he, I don’t know, inherited the vineyards, either because he likes to do it because of hobbies and so on. And of course, if this case isn't enormously burdened, then fine, it also pays taxes. However, if someone disproportionately taxed him, and for wine growers in some positions, the cadastral income would increase by 10 times, it means that this will simply not go away. And then what is the end of the spoils of the treasury, and what is the broader expropriation? Weak. For this farmer will not pay the euro any more, nor will he pay for the forest, which is less, much less than for the vineyard or anything, because of course he will leave the vineyard, cut it down, and leave the matter to heal. And then the inspectors will be after him over there. By the way, I speak from practice because I have a vineyard. In my immediate vicinity, vineyards have been abandoned, which no one has cut in years. A few years! And how do you imagine that an additional increase in cadastral income would affect a lot of people who are at the border today, whether they will do it or not? For the vineyard is an obligation, it has to be serviced, it has to be done in much, and not least it costs you a great deal. And you need to be physically, and you need to know, not the last time. It's kind of a thing. And I'm warning you, not these people get hit with taxes because they're already in trouble. Also, see, in Slovenia wine consumption has fallen in well-known wine-growing environments for a variety of reasons, including the constant presence of police, impossible penalties, tourism and more. And I'm not in favor of excessive drinking or anything, just so it doesn't happen. But don't explain to me that some of the wine tourist roads known as tourist attractions in Austria can also be carried in Slovenia without the provision of wine and so on. I want to tell you that because of the concept, it is a problem whether we will ever implement such a system at all or not. Just like he was at the real estate tax when you ended up torturing yourself with non-residents and residents. Since it is not in its own right, it is not just that it is residently taxed in the same way as nonresidential. On the other hand, we could go into the system, even here probably, into a system of single taxation with some relief that cuts those small ones, just like it is with income. And you have a threshold, for a certain threshold of exemption, which prevents those little ones who have a few hundred reeds or fruit or anything else from being overtaxed by the visas of others. So at this point it is really worth pointing out that such important things as cadastral income, such as various other taxes, especially real estate, do not make sense, I would say, to negotiate in some closed circles, but it is necessary and necessary to deal with such things in a broader way and to deal with them. And not only with the so - called profession, which sees more or less the business and those large producers, but also with others — with those who also represent people who are important food growers, are small and do more or less because of self - care. So I think this law wants to bring back an opportunity to make a substantial difference on this subject. I even believe that this law should be fully replaced with one another and that life in the Slovenian countryside should be heard more as well as the views of some experts protecting such and different interests.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u31	Thank you. I give the word to the government, mag. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. Agricultural activity is an economic activity with its specificities and must be taken into account or treated as such. Last week, I think that Thursday or Wednesday, Wednesday, we discussed a proposal for a novelty of two laws that fully increase the possibility of flat-rate taxation for economic activities with an argument: it is necessary to simplify the matter. Here we are talking about a law that means the basis from which income is charged in the agricultural activity that is dealt with by individuals, farmers. And since we have a certain methodology for calculating this cadastral income, here we say that too little specificity takes into account that too little takes into account the different characteristics or characteristics of each individual producer of such or other agricultural crops. Let's see the numbers. Statistics publish each year the value added in each economic area. For 2012, an added value of EUR 300 million was set for the agricultural activity. Catastrophe income in the same year was €60 million, 5 times lower. Is it possible that the old methodology for determining cadastral income is too low and that the new methodology, which would mean EUR 113 million base for this year, is perhaps closer to actual economic power in this area? I agree, it's a big breakthrough, big difference. But the question is whether this difference has arisen because the old methodology has set the assessment of agricultural work too low, or whether the new methodology puts the evaluation of this work too high. We must not forget that cadastral income is not just a basis for taxation; it is also a basis for the rights of those persons who are protected by basic agricultural and forestry activities. Since there has also been a lot of talk about small winemakers, let me also say this: most small wine growers have vineyards of 0.3 hectares or even smaller size, but data from the wine and grape growers' register show that 90% of the growers in this wine area and only 40% are consumed or sold as grapes. This assessment and this information are also taken into account when determining the height of the cadastral income for vineyards, where it is taken into account that most wine-growing areas are not used as grapes. My assessment is that the implementation of this law could result in a burden or an assessment of the value of market potential income in agriculture, which would be much closer to the actual added value. However, since this is a flat-rate income system, it is not possible for such a flat-rate system to be simple, transparent and usable, to cover any specificities that apply in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u33	Thank you, too. He's a magi-proposer. Andrei Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u34	Dear Secretary of State, you have, of course, rightly summed up how this has happened, but I also tell you quite correctly that I do not agree with this. I do not agree that you, for a large majority, say between 90 and 95 % of wine producers in Slovenia, but you say that we cannot follow just every specification. It's a rule, it's not specific, and you know it. If I remind you that the European Union, too, when we are talking about economic operators, where also the vast majority of small ones, has particularly taken them for small ones and said 'Think small first', think of small ones first. Therefore, I would ask you to think of the small ones first when determining the cadastral income. And this is not specific for you to say that each area will be treated separately or otherwise – no, this is the vast majority of farmers in this country who have, as you said, a few ten acres of vineyards. And they are not ordinary growers, because if they stop producing grapes or wine, this will probably not mean anything to the market, but also in their supply probably not, but it will have another extremely unloving consequence that we will have an increasingly ingrown and unregulated Slovenian landscape, which is specific, we have fragmented parcels. In short, you can't just compare this to any manufacturer of anything. If one craftsman, I don't know, closes his workshop in some village, the customers will probably go somewhere else. It's a big problem, but it can probably be replaced in some way. However, if small producers leave this activity due to disproportionately high burdens, they will soon find out that they will no longer do so and will have this other unloving effect. And another thing is, most of these growers do it as a side activity, and they do something else. And it is true that as soon as the cadastral income goes into the income forecast, they can also be taxed very much, given this cadastral income. It is no longer a lower rate, but it can be one of the higher rates, which means that a lot of income is then paid as a result of such increased cadastral income – an additional motive. So I would ask you, those who, of course, create this policy in this area, to break the existing law and the concept that works, I would say, flatly across the board, and introduce in some way a specific, at least specific, for what is happening in practice. If you knew this specific about income introduction, because you have a progressive income scale with certain general facilitations, you may also have a similar concept here, a similar concept here. So you wouldn't go all catastrotic income actually into income. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, it's practically going. And it doesn't matter, it can also be the same land that can be taxed differently for different people. It's possible by that logic, too. So I think that the bad side of the Cadastrian Income Act and all these novelties is that the matter is still unclear in advance as to what it will be. Today he is not here between us or I ask the Secretary of State what will be the next course of government in this area. [[...]] Will it actually change this system again for 2016 and 2017? Which way is she going to turn it? What will happen if these farmers today, who have received two years of leave, know what awaits them — whether they go to grind their axes and saws or go to update their plantations? For one uncertainty in the field of taxation is the worst thing that can happen when a man cannot plan what he will do with it. And I'm asking you for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u35	Thank you. I give the word to the government, mag. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u36	In order not to be mistaken, the existing Income Act exempts income payments or excludes cadastral income from the tax base, which is lower than EUR 200. In Slovenia we have the number of people who are engaged in basic agricultural and forestry activities, about 535 thousand 700. Of these, there are 132 thousand of those in the cadastral income base. It is said that the vast majority of those who own land and are therefore liable to the acquisition of cadastral income are exempt from income. The same would be true of the new or slightly less due to the increase in certain lands, and some would also be excluded because of a marked decline in cadastral income in certain cultures, and therefore, last year's cadastral income was lower than in 2012. As far as your question is concerned, you know that this is not a matter that the Government of the current business would be able to prepare further, so that the new government will have to answer how it will proceed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u37	Thank you. He's a magi-proposer. Andrei Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u38	Dear Secretary of State, you have given me information on existing burdens or cadastral income, not on the simulation of new calculations, which would be, in particular, for plantations and vineyards several times, up to ten times higher, and of course would be substantially more liable to pay. That's one thing. The other thing is this one. It is very sad if you do not know what the concept of the Government is for the next time that we are extending the validity of the catastrian income. I am not asking you what you will do next week, but in which direction we can expect, of course, if you will have this opportunity to lead the government after future elections, in which direction we can expect solutions. I hope you have that concept. However, if you do not have this concept, it is better to repeal that old law, because, as you say, some have been forgiven, probably especially in the field and so on, with even lower earnings. In fact, you have done more damage to this budget or we will collect this tax even less than we did under the old regime. Really, it's incredible creativity.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u39	Thank you. Before I give Mrs Ivi Dimic the floor, just an explanation of the functioning of the National Assembly. If there is a dissolution of the National Assembly, this means only a reduction of the four-year constitutional deadline, otherwise all other powers for the adoption of laws remain. So much for further discussion. Mrs. Iva Dimic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secretary of State! The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Cadastrian Income Recognition Act, which is due to postpone for 2014 and 2015 and which would not be higher somehow than 2013 for the basis, calculation of the base, of course I support. It is certainly necessary to discuss above all what has been done so far, that this law has not been prepared, and that these changes await the fourth government, the next fourth government. I think that this is unrealistic, not serious for citizens and citizens, and not serious for those who depend on farms and live and who do not know what will happen to them in 2015 or what will happen after 2016. This is all too far away, moved to the future, and I ask here, but I asked myself a year ago on the Committee on Agriculture, where we discussed what is being done on the Geodetic Board of the Republic of Slovenia, what are they waiting for when the Government will decide that the groups must be set up. I think it's irresponsible work. They are paid for this to wait for something to be done, and the farmer has to pay it immediately, because if he didn't pay some taxes for four years, then half the farm would probably ruin it or whatever. I think it is completely irresponsible here that these things do not move in this area. If we're going to come from the end, where we're at an altitude of 600 or 800 more above sea level, I think it's extremely inappropriate to suggest that in the interior and karst region there was some field of the best quality compared to the central region, what I've already said in Ljubljana, which is 100 Euros higher or valued 277, and Ljubljana 177. This suggests that on the Geodetic Board of the Republic of Slovenia this was done by someone who did not know the situation. He did not know where these fields were, and he did not know what the climate conditions were there, what it was like to produce and what food producers were dependent on in that area. Come in. What, then, is the basis for calculating the cadastral income? This has already been said today, and I will repeat it again because one important thing has been dropped. This is the possibility of production on some territory or a forest section in some area minus the cost of cutting or production costs. This is important. And if I go back now, I also asked that question, but I didn't get an answer from the Geodetic Authority at the time, in which the costs of logging were cut in the woods, because there was a 13-fold increase in the interior and karst region, in which the slaughter fell, the cost of cutting. Because we know what the cost of cutting is. And if we go back, or just a few months ago, that these costs of cutting and bringing about the consequences of greed for our area are extremely, extremely high. I have also warned myself that the methodology for the calculation of cadastral income should also take into account all natural disasters that may follow, and also take into account for 2016 and 2017 when these calculations are being made, including the nature of the disaster that has just affected the Inland Krajina region. I think there's going to be a 13-fold increase in cadastral income here, but a 13-fold reduction, because unfortunately there won't be anything left in our inner forests. However, I would like to touch on this a little bit – not the topic of this session, but also other colleagues of mine have gone to another area, but they will also go down, but I would just say something here, and here is also the call of all farmers and forest owners that something has to be done. If it has been suggested that a state-owned company should be set up to buy wood and that we have a buyer abroad who demands certain quantities, why this is not now implemented, why it is not implemented, despite the fact that no company has been set up to just get this wood that is actually falling in the woods on trains. The worst thing is that farmers have to pay the workers for wood, but they get nothing, and this is another threat to the social situation in the future, in the months or years to come, the forest owners or, to the greatest extent, the farmers. I would also touch on how important the calculation of taxes and cadastral income is. I would just like to highlight one example of a farm of 15 hectares. Nor was a small cadastral income calculated for this lady. She remained a widow with three school-bound children, small ones, she did not come from the farm alone, and received 500 euros a month's salary, guaranteed a low salary. I think it's also necessary to do some work here with someone like that, I can say, a social note, because lastly, our farmers, the owners of farms will have nothing but – what? To fail, to despair, or to surrender to fate, and to hope for a better tomorrow. I hope we give them this better tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u41	Thank you, too. Mr Robert Hrovat has the floor and Mr Tomaž Lisec is being prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! It must be said that at least three questions have already been raised this year on the subject of KD. It was appointed to the Minister for Agriculture of the Jews, who claimed that he was not competent, then it was put to Chufer, not once, twice, there were no answers. That's what I said to avoid that debate, that debate that we put in a law that the government thought was going to file anyway. See, here, in view of the fact that this question was raised at least three times and there were no correct answers, this has led us to do so or led us to submit this proposal for a law. I am pleased that at last, although only at the end of the term, there has been some agreement that we should finally come together and do something good for the Slovenian farmer, the winegrower, the owner of the forests and so on. In this mandate, everything was too much to be heard by the government. All too much has been listened to by the government and followed the government's actions, especially I speak for the coalition. We in the Slovenian Democratic Party and the rest of the opposition have always opposed and warned of the problems that have arisen. Look, otherwise it's a financial law, but whatever we're looking at, the Slovenian farmer's bumper is the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment. And in this area or at this exam, unfortunately, the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment has fallen, however we look. Whatever we're looking at. It was squirming, squirming, and then the Slovenian Democratic Party proposed a change of law, and now it is our fault that we are going to populism and that the Government will prepare it and bring it to the National Assembly. That's not true. The Slovenian Democratic Party has proposed that all the parliamentary groups agree with the proposal. Of course, thank you very much for your support. Why did we propose to change this law? See, in 2013, a calculation was made using a new methodology, which is controversial, however we look at, and you also point out to the representatives of the Ministry of Finance that the methodology is controversial and needs to be corrected. And they have a job, some professional group, and I'm gonna say bad again, bear and bear and give nothing away, and I should have given it a long time ago. And that's what colleague Katarina was talking about, and the officials from the third, fourth, the ones who were paid to take the matter down and do it, and the thing just doesn't move. See, the calculation showed that vineyards, farmers, forest owners should pay around €113 million in tax this year. Since we are proposing a change and a amendment to the law, farmers, forest owners, will pay €47 million. What does that mean? If the same methodology were to be applied for the 2013 calculation, this year a farmer would have to pay EUR 2 000 500 tax instead of thousands. Now I speak generally, but plastically, so that the people who follow us and find out what the Slovenian Democratic Party has actually proposed, watch, know what this is about. It's a huge difference. If we hadn't proposed this law, farmers would have paid substantially more income. Of course, this had to be prevented, and waiting for the Ministry would, in my opinion, be a fatal mistake. It was therefore right to come out with this law, because the social, economic status of Slovenian farmers is lower from month to month, and not to say that Slovenian farmers' incomes are rising, that the standard is better and so on. It is not true, the economic, social situation of the farmer is rapidly deteriorating. And with taxes, such or otherwise as we have dealt with in this term in the National Assembly, and thank God that we have constantly warned in the opposition and that no real estate tax has been imposed. Remember what the Minister of the Jews used to say when he first started talking about real estate taxes. He said, "I'll do anything to stop it. This has to be prevented." What happened at the end? In the National Assembly, the law was passed. Without the Constitutional Court's constitutional assessment of the Slovenian Democratic Party on which the Constitutional Court ruled, farmers would still be taxed and still be taxed for real estate. And that's what we talk about all the time. And if we add KD here, if we add to the Forest Carriers Act and more, and I could say that I am not talking about high penalties, extremely high penalties for those small offences, then it is clear that this mandate was not for a farmer, but it was against a farmer. And thank God that it is the end of the mandate for the cards to be remixed, and I very much wish, in the interests of the Slovenian farmer, that the Slovenian Democratic Party will be given the opportunity to run the Ministry of Agriculture. I really want to, because I think that this would be the only right way and the only solution, even for small farmers, not just the big ones that are being defended now, especially for small farmers. In particular, small farmers need to be taken care of because there are more than 90% of them in Slovenia, and this would be the right way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u43	Thank you. The word is government, mag. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u44	Thank you very much. I repeat, cadastral income is not tax. And the statement that 113 million tax should be paid against 47,5 million tax is incorrect. This is the basis for the calculation of income. In fact, the amount of tax actually paid depends on the personal circumstances of each individual debtor. According to an effective rate of income from an agricultural activity of approximately 18 %, last year, approximately 8 million tax and not 47 million tax were collected from the cadastral income base. And also the basis that I spoke about earlier, 113 million, is the basis and not the tax that was paid for agricultural activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr. Croat, you think you've been misunderstood, you have a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u46	Of course, I was misunderstood. Is income tax or not tax?Oh, my God! What was I talking about?Oh, my God! That's exactly what I'm talking about! I understand and I know that KD is the basis for an income assessment, and don't put words in my mouth that I didn't say in that way! I was talking about taxes, taxes. Is the income tax? Just tell me that. It's a tax for me!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor and Mr Branko Ficko is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u48	President, thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State, other government officials! The red thread of the cadastral income issue is, you want it or you don't want it, Mr. Dejan Židan. In 2011, Mr Križanič, Minister of Agriculture, was Minister of Finance, Mr Židan. Things got complicated. It is true that one interim government has not solved this, but also the current superminister, as some say, Mr Chufer and Mr Židan, as Minister of Finance and Minister of Agriculture, have not saved this. And given the situation that it is now in their customers, you can give at least one beer to SDS Members because we are saving them what you should be solving alone. We're on it. And what you are doing today, Members of the coalition, when you are trying to minimize this law, because this does not play any important role for a Slovenian farmer – you can tell that to a Slovenian farmer, but his calculation, both cadastral income and, as a result, higher income payments, puts your thesis on a lie. Moreover, after leaving the issue to be definitively solved by another ministerial twin, the Government, or government officials, who are supposed to be professional regardless of what the minister comes from, or the government's option, bought another year of time through the amendment on the committee to make it easier for them to run free and nothing will happen. Earlier she said to colleague Katarina Hočevar: "Six years has been saved or will be saved." Respected, what do officials at the Ministry of Finance and officials at the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment do if they have no choice but to invoke that it is the Geodetic Administration who gave them the wrong calculations, after which the Slovenian farmer would have been struck by the cadastral income for more than ten times for certain parts of Slovenia, such as the winegrowers in Posav, beekeepers and others? And I understand Minister Cuffer that in fact it is such a marginal matter for him, because everything he deals with, and then he has to get to know agriculture. But the fact is that if the Minister of Finance does not already understand or even wants to hear about the agricultural problem, it is the Minister of Agriculture who should be the one to roll up his sleeves, and if he wants to be the defender of the Slovenian farmer, to solve matters, but to resolve matters in favour of the Slovenian farmer, in particular that small farmer, which my predecessor, Andrej Vizjak, had previously talked about, which is almost 95% according to the data. In short, whatever the Government now refers to as some foundation, something is then paid income – all of this would be paid by Slovenian farmers. And that little farmer would pay the most for it. And, Your Honor, this is proof that this minister's mandate has been directed against a small farmer: a property tax, carriers that have only touched a small farmer, not large concessionaires, fines for a small farmer who brings home more than 6 cubic metres of wood and so on. The Minister washed his hands with the most crucial problems of agriculture – concessions in the area of chimney farming We had the opportunity at one night’s meeting to change it, and he withdrew. [[...]] The forest concession expires in 2016. Don't talk about it. A new minister will have to do all that this minister has done to him or leave him an open question. And I believe that the next Minister for Agriculture and the Environment will really have to be one superhero to solve all things before 1 June 2015, if we want to have things wrapped up, resolved in 2016. Let me get this straight. In view of the amendment that came from the Government to move these transitional solutions for another year, I feel that either at both ministries they do not even know how to save, or things do not even know or want to resolve, and probably in 2016, whoever the minister is going to meet inside this space and again look for a gold vein to save the cadastral income, which is supposed to be in favour of the Slovenian farmer. But the question is, will it really be a good solution for the Slovenian farmer? I myself recall the debate last June on the committee, on the proposal of my colleagues from the SLS Group, and on the occasion of the adoption of the law five before the 12th, where we rejected the madness prepared by Gurs as a calculation, as a methodology, and then all of this went through or through ministries, that Slovenian farmers would not be taxed up to ten times more. And that's when the government still took 10%, and we can lift it. She still took 10%. That's not what our marriage is about. And believe me, if the SDS hadn't come with this law – let's leave what Mr. Jew and Mr. Chufer are doing now. If I didn't come with this law, I guarantee you that the government would come if you came here, if you came here, to safely take 10, 20 percent, because after the collapse of the real estate tax, you're hunting for every thousand, for every million euros, to spray it into the state budget, where you're leaving a huge hole. And also with this higher base, from 47 to 113 million, as a result this means higher income, but only something would be absorbed into this poor state budget, and this would be paid by Slovenian farmers, the smallest. This makes it impossible for our marriage, so thank you to all those who will also support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr Branko Ficko has the floor to prepare himself for the mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u50	Thank you. Say good-bye again! Today we will freeze the cadastral income calculations following this new methodology. Why? Since 2011 it has not been established and something has been very wrong here. Whether it's on Gurs's side or someone else's side, we should also investigate and find responsibility, but let's just leave the matter. The fact is that cadastral income, this amount, which revolves around EUR 60 million, is about 6 million, or about 8 million, as the State Secretary had previously said. Of course, these figures should be compared to other data in agriculture. The registered income in agriculture is about 1.2 billion and the added value found is 350 million. Of course, these 350 million should be taken as some basis for calculating the levy or the contribution that agriculture is supposed to give back to the country. Of course, this should take account of the contribution to agriculture, which is on an annual basis about 400 million European money with a Slovenian contribution, of which about 140 million direct payments. Of course, we must then decide whether we will continue to have agriculture as a social category or whether we will have agriculture in the right sense of management. My proposal will also, in the future, when the ministries, I am talking about both, and the finance ministry, of course in cooperation with the Minister of Agriculture, will identify the correct basis or correct methodology, in particular taking into account the level of income in individual agricultural activities, the contribution of European funds from Slovenian money on an annual basis, and in particular the added value. As there has already been a lot of talk today on the burden of a smaller or smaller farmer, my recommendation will always be that both ministries take into account the category in the new reform of agricultural policy by 2020, which determines that the minimum contribution of European funds will be one hectare. And then we could have some height, I'd say, so-called social caps, that whoever has 10 acres, 20 acres of vineyards, won't be burdened with the same height as those farmers who are really engaged in economic activity. I propose that the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, which, in particular from its registered income, in particular the added value, has the right data for the individual agricultural holdings, be involved in the Ministry of Agriculture and the environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u51	Thank you, too. The word could have been mag. Ivan Vogrin, but he is not in the hall, therefore has the word Mr Marijan Pojbič, to prepare Mr Jožef Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think it is right to say in the beginning that I was born alone in a village in Slovenski gorica, where we had a small farm at home with our family, which we really worked with the heart and realized how important it is to produce home food and not to buy around these centers that we have around Slovenia, how this food is significantly healthier and so on. And we were aware of that. That is why I am even more concerned because I know that these small farms and those people living in this environment cannot and must not be burdened if we want this environment to remain processed if we want to produce healthy food, Slovenian food on these small farms, which I believe is still important for the future and also for the healthy life of the Slovenian people. And we all need to be aware of that together. That is why I am so much more concerned that it is the government of Alenka Bratušek and the coalition for these small farmers and for this agriculture that has completely lost that real contact. If we look all the time, if I just mention raising VAT, I will mention excise duties, not to talk about penalties in agriculture, not to mention the real estate tax, which thank God was abolished by the Constitutional Court. And now up to two, up to a threefold increase in the payment of cadastral income. Do you know what this means for these small farms and this rural environment? It's a direct attack on the countryside! This government and this coalition, after all that it has done, have evidently deliberately pursued such goals. This is really extremely unacceptable, extremely unacceptable, and citizens and citizens of Slovenia cannot afford such a thing to allow such things to move forward in this country! And thank God, I also hope to stress that there are elections at the door. Why? In particular, because, at the moment that the coalition supported the proposal, the coalition and the government, the proposal proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, and this is the proposal of this law. Thank God! I hope that every month the elections in the Slovenian Parliament will react to coalition parties and the Government in the way they reacted in this situation, so they will react in the interests of my people, my people, our people, Slovenian mountains, the whole Slovenian countryside and the whole of Slovenia. That seems extremely important to me. I hope that this spirit will also apply in the future, that we will start in this country, not only the Slovenian Democratic Party and the opposition, to act in the interest of the Slovenian human being, in the interest of the Slovenian people, but not in the interest of individual corrupt thieves, who continue to remain completely untouched! But we are burdening those in this society with such legislation who, according to my assessment, are the most important and weak, and this is unacceptable! That's unacceptable! And when I return to this law, which we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have written into the objectives and principles of the bill the following important sentence: "The purpose of the bill is to establish a fair and proportionate tax burden for the Slovenian farmer." I repeat: establishing a fair and proportionate tax burden for a Slovenian farmer and thus ensuring its existence in the future. I repeat: and thus ensure its existence and operation in the future. Can anyone say that this is not what Slovenian agriculture expects of us? And in the second sentence, we wrote: "By a solution whereby the level of cadastral income in 2014 and 2015 is limited to the level of cadastral income as measured in 2013, the principle of proportionality is followed through the adjustment of new calculations to real levels of income." So we did what we believe should have been done long ago by this government or the previous government, Borut Pahor, which adopted the law and methodology in 2011. This would also increase the cadastral income by two or three times, or in some cases even ten times. And thank God that in this Parliament we have a Slovenian Democratic Party, which has resisted and proved through the proposed law that it disagrees with such a way of dealing with Slovenian agriculture, and has proposed a solution that is at this moment the only solution acceptable to Slovenian agriculture. Dear Government, dear coalition, to conclude this: I am sure that this government and this coalition should raise money for the mafia, thieves, criminal associations, privileged people and all those who have destroyed this Slovenian society, not by any means, but for those who are already most burdened, and not for those who live on the brink of survival, but not for Slovenian agriculture, for the Slovenian small farmer, who, I am sure, is still important for us to enjoy healthy food in Slovenia in the future, and how important it will be for us to live in Slovenia. That is why we must not, and I ask you to confirm this law in the third reading, that we avoid this, so that we do not impose additional burdens on Slovenian farmers and Slovenian farmers.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek, Mr Ivan Grill, Mr Andrej Chus, Mr Dragan Bosic, is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary of State! Preventing or obstructing the overexploitation of the Slovenian population, both the worker and the farmer, is one of the basic tasks of a Member in the Slovenian Parliament, whether opposition or coalition Member. However, I do not feel you in general in this House, because in 2011, when this law was passed, this mentality began to test the patience, patience and ability of the Slovenian farmer. At that time, the ministers in that government were Mr Luksic, Mr Židan, Mr Križanič. And here again was the reincarnation of that policy, which was present all the time after World War II in the predecessor of this party, from which these three ministers come – the oppression of the Slovenian farmer and the constant test of his sustainability, to which limits. This happened in 2011 and earlier in that government. Farmers are always a test sample of how the Slovenian worker can be further burdened, as this mentality in the party has always been, when farmers are not able to organize themselves, they do not strike. Here is a fitting test sample for how to make additional use of a worker and a man who serves his own bread. And it is no wonder that in this government, ministers Lukšić, Židan and Križanič, there was such a law. And now that these calculations have been made, which have shown that it has been suggested that farmers from three to four times increase the base for cadastral income, and, of course, on this basis are excluded, you have, I must say, been a little awkward, slow and not in time, even though you had this plan, you have done so and the matter has come at a time when you suspected that Mr Jankovic had announced the party's dissipation here and, consequently, the collapse of this government. And then there was a quick conclusion on the table that this had to be put off [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u55	Mr Jerovšek, focus on the law, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u56	Am I not talking about how this came about? If others mentioned earlier when the decision was made by the government, you did not interrupt them! That the government is also against the immediate application of this law, because they were aware that just before the elections, the introduction of this exploitation tax would weaken the possibility of elections. And of course, this decision was immediately taken by the Government to suspend it. However, this was essentially envisaged, although farmers do not benefit from their income for luxury, not in 99%. If they have income, profits, they reinvest it, and such people must be wanted by the state, not to study how to tax them as much as possible. Of course, you all agree now, which is commendable, but in view – this wave will follow a new one. You have now passed on your expectations and all of this to those policies that were the advisers of this government during this government and the current government, such as Mr Cerar, Mr Soltes, and this will continue in the same way. It has been seen that, even now, under Mr Jew and finance minister, we have had a reincarnation of all possible taxes that have been invented in the previous system. I was just waiting for the tax to be imposed on the native, the vine of the native. That was after World War II for a long time. If anyone had a brat from the locker room, he was taxed extra. They were specialists, you know, even though they're people. [[...]] And I expected the Minister of the Jews to introduce this, because I can see that he was instituting all those patterns that they once intended. That's why I know but it was back when it was just, Mr. Cardell, who kind of hated the farmer. [[...]] I know my parents were shaking if he had a speech about what he was going to say again between the lines, where he would nationalize, what would happen to the farmer. Now it's the perfect reincarnation of this, the perfect reincarnation of this, and people need to be told. I don't expect these new actors entering the political scene next week to be any different than they thought. They were advisors to these governments, left-wing, they were advisors to these governments, and this is only a fraud that goes from mandate to mandate, so that today we are likely to prevent this exploitation law from being enforced is not a definitive solution, as this remains in the subconscious of people who agree on the same ideological patterns, that it is necessary to permanently tighten up with farmers and workers as long as they are able to survive. People need to be careful, and that is why we are also speaking today, because in the pre-election period, we have not completely resolved that there are new frauds on the march, which will help them try to do so on the back of farmers and workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u58	Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues, secretary of state with co-workers from the Ministry! In fact, we could say that this government should be for a while, because now it finally has a more serious opposition, now that more – except the Social Democrats, of course, they do not know what they would be and where they would be. But when they're in power, they do so much damage that you can't fix them in 10 years, that's, of course, the second truth of Pahor's 7 billion and so on. And for some, that's also true, and I didn't intend to start with that, but now I have to do what the American journalist in the New York Times wrote about Slovenia. He wrote: "There is a country in Europe under the Alps that borders the Balkans and is confined to itself. There the unemployed work the most, there live the people on the most fertile land, but it is unprocessed because the cultivation of the fertile land to farmers is not worth it." Let's keep going. So, such a way, and it would be more appropriate for the government to really rule and to reject in Parliament what is not good for people or what is yet to be improved. And this is what is happening now that Parliament can work in this way as well. If we did this, I am sure that many of the taxes adopted in recent times would not have been adopted and that the proposal for a cadastral income law would probably have been resolved long ago, and given the new methodology that has been prepared – as the State Secretary has said before – whether the new methodology overestimates values or the old methodology underestimates when we are doing a comparison between each other, what then comes about the basis for a tax assessment. They're clearly both flawed, they're definitely weak and, you know, it's definitely what happened last year, that citizens, that entrepreneurs, that economists, that craftsmen don't know how they're going to be next month, how the bike is going to spin when it's just around new taxes, so it doesn't happen. And if we acted in this way, of course we would have the most citizens and citizens, because the government should simply rule. Now she was lying in the shadow of the government coalition, and there was a lot going on in contrast with the will, even with the beliefs of many MPs or coalition MPs, when we talked in the hallways when there were no cameras, but of course, many times it was said, "Yes, but what are you saying, the coalition has to be supported." The point is that government Members should negotiate significantly more firmly with the Government when they are alone in closed work, when there are no cameras present. I can honestly say that when I was a member of the coalition alone, we did this, and how hard and how many times more times we did not agree on some things and the ministers had to step back. We also told them that if they didn't know, then let them go, because we were elected, and we replaced them, and we set them up, and we solved them. Such a way, of course, if Parliament were to work, would be significantly better and everyone together would have significantly more than that, this means a more social state, they would have better salaries, pensions, jobs, young people would not be on the edge as they are now. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will, of course, support the amendments and the text of the law in the third reading, and I am pleased that we have a third hearing today, because if this were not for the Parliament to be dissolved and there would be no extraordinary session – we know that even a two-thirds consensus on important matters is needed then to be placed on the agenda following the dissolution of Parliament – I am afraid what this would mean for the cadastral income in 2014, if we would not have accepted it. This will be adopted today and, of course, this is good. When the secretary of state spoke earlier about the average of vineyards, 0.3 hectares, that is 30 acres. In Slovenian Goricah and Haloza, there are many individual vineyards, even smaller than – this is the average – 0,1 vineyards from 10, 15, 20 acres. To avoid selling grapes and most of it goes into wine, it is true, because of course selling grapes today means simply not selling – to give. Because to a large extent you know what's going on with these cooperatives. Farmers don't get paid for it the way it's supposed to be. Even at the minimum, low-priced price, which does not even cover their costs, they do not get, but this is of course different in neighbouring countries. I was recently in one such province in France, where farmers co-operated and, of course, cooperative work in their interest, grapes were paid 48% at the full price. 52 is for processing, selling, marketing and so on. If there's anything left there, the partners will split it up again. Unfortunately, this is completely different with us. Agricultural policy must be put on a completely new footing, my fellow Members and Members. Slovenia is not Sweden, it is not Germany, it is France, Slovenia is such as, from sea to mountains, it has Slovenian mountains in between, it has other parts that clearly do not have 100, 200, 000 hectares of working surfaces, but are significantly smaller. The tradition is different with agricultural policy, tax policy, cadastral policy. Remember when we discussed the real estate law, which was annulled by the Constitutional Court, thank God. If we were to deal with him today, I'm sure he wouldn't have been accepted. I am sure that the vast majority of those Members who did not agree at the time would vote on their own conscience, because they are no longer responsible to a government that is no longer theirs, which has fallen apart, which is simply gone. And the fact is that, of course, with such a tax policy, we will not preserve the Slovenian countryside, we will not preserve what our grandparents have left us and so on. In the Slovenian People's Party, as you may recall, last May we drew attention to this controversial methodology and, of course, we said, even today in our position, that the increased burdens on agriculture are numerous, too many and that this is not the right path. I hope that after the new parliamentary elections we will receive such a coalition that will take more account of the position of farmers, the position of craftsmen and the position of entrepreneurs. If all of this is largely taken into account, if we drastically reduce taxes, we will, of course, increase everything from self-sustainment to employment, economic growth and so on. We must encourage people to maintain the countryside as well. Half a hectare, one hectare of land – imagine what it means to process a municipal company, but we have to pay for it, or if someone who lives there puts their free time into it, by the way, because he has a love for it because he is tied to the ground because he is simply a Slovenian patriot. And here from Ljubljana's offices, of course, we'd like to literally put him in charge of this. The right solution would be for agricultural policy at this level – in fact, agricultural policy is regulated in Brussels. However, in order to regulate, at this level and around taxation and so on, and to deal with it at regional level. This means that regions are urgently needed for this country. This will solve a number of problems. See, some have predicted the abolition of congregations, something that is good, in this way with taxes, of course they would also abolish farms, family farms that do not bring any profits, but of course bring, contribute, if you want, to the self-sustainment of that family at that time, even when it may be the worst, when various disasters, floods, floods, floods and so on occur. That's when it all matters when it's not, I don't know, electricity and so on. In this way, this Slovenian countryside and Slovenian agriculture are still important and, of course, we must not destroy it with some taxes, get a few million, and on the other hand, we have left billions to all those rascals they took away, nothing has happened to them. Banks, billions drop into banks and so on. I hope that better times are coming for the whole of Slovenia, for the whole country, times that will no longer owe us, like this mandate. In fact, Mr Pahor's previous mandate was in record debt, and Mrs Alenka Bratušek was in fact in record debt, which, of course, increased by third power, increased, marked, and she is convinced that all together is far better – it is, of course, from her viewpoint as a Ljubljana bureaucrat – to raise taxes and contributions. I will personally support the amendments, and I will also support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Cuz has the floor, followed by Mr Dragan Bosic, Mr Jožef Horvat and Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings from Mrs. Vraničar and colleagues and colleagues! The new Cadastrian Income Law, in my opinion, brings more fair and proportionate tax burdens for Slovenian farmers. This, of course, will also have an important impact on the Slovenian farmer's ability to, say, at least a minimum decent future and existence. We need to know that all these taxes and burdens adopted by the government of Alenka Bratušek in this year have been very harmful, all the research shows. On the other hand, more and more people, including young people, have been deterring agriculture, not only from agriculture, but also from putting themselves in the world of entrepreneurship by themselves. It was simply the teaching of this policy to be at home in social life, because you would be doing as if you were on a minimum. And also the fact that more and more young people do not want to work, even in agriculture, is mainly due to the fact that the situation of our Slovenian farmer is worse from day to day. Let's take a look at how much we would have picked up a Slovenian farmer if all of your actions were to go through. Unfortunately, most of them did, but fortunately there was a property tax here, when we fought here until seven o’clock in the morning, they said why the law was not appropriate, why it would fall in the Constitutional Court, but you were blindly supporting it and, on the other hand, saying that this law was righteous. Fortunately, the Real Estate Tax Act has fallen, but there are still several other measures that have affected farmers, rurals and those who create: higher excise duties, value added tax and, of course, increasing penalties, I think in agriculture. Last week, in the municipality of Markovci, I had a parliamentary evening, on which as one of the guests I also had as one of the former Presidents of the Federation of Slovenian Rural Youth, and when he presented the situation in our agriculture, of course, my head began to ache. I could talk about this here for more time than I have, but the information I wrote down is that farmers up to the age of 35 in the European Union are 6% and only 4% in Slovenia. This shows, of course, that the situation in Slovenian agriculture is alarming, because young people do not decide on this profession, young people leave rural areas, do not take over farms, and, of course, because the situation is as it is. It's no longer worth being a farmer. It is true, however, that in the new financial perspective there are some measures that will be aimed at rejuvenating Slovenian farms, but if we just talk and accept it here – I don't know, we will have to go to the field from the offices and ask what needs to be done. And if we look today at the situation that we have about 130 thousand unemployed, of which at least 30,000 are unemployed by the age of 30 – how many jobs are available in agriculture? I think a few thousand, and here we fell asleep and missed all the trains, all the buses, so we have to walk. However, if we do not or would not accept the novel on which we are voting today, the situation of the Slovenian farmer will deteriorate further. In fact, he would have been affected by abnormal burdens. That is why I am glad to have the support of most or all of the parties in the National Assembly. It is obvious that the upcoming elections have little effect on your decisions, but let us look from a healthy point of view. If we do not accept today's novel, or if we do not accept it, a farmer with 12 hectares of land will pay EUR 2 000 300 instead of 600. The novelty we have prepared in the SDS Group has another important function. The Geodetic Authority will be given time to develop a new methodology for the calculation of cadastral income and to prepare a legal basis for this methodology. The methodology adopted by the National Assembly three years ago, and it came into force last year, which was already a year ago, can be said to have brought together owners of farms, forests, orchards and vineyards throughout the country. However, we also need to know that according to the current methodology for calculating KD, which is then also the basis for taxing farms, this would increase by 5 times, from 61 million to 311, and thank God that we have frozen it already in 2012. So that some of you who say that they are calling themselves, as was the case at the second reading – if there was no meeting today, Slovenian farmers would pay 113 million euros, but now, if this is accepted, they will pay 47 million euros. I think the difference is more than obvious. I will, as of course, support the SDS Group's amendment to the Cadastrian Income Law, which will relieve Slovenian farmers and, I hope, allow at least a minimum of sufficient conditions for existence and survival. In several discussions today, it was to be understood that Slovenian agricultural policy has fallen asleep in the past, has not responded to the problems of the terrain, so the farmer, she has not listened enough, and I think that this is one of the measures that will finally go to the farmer's benefit. It grieves me, however, that instead of dealing with some of the serious problems we are facing at this time in the National Assembly, the SDS Group had to draft a law to bring it in. Of course, we did it with no difficulty and great joy, but on the other hand, we have coalition parties, failed coalitions, who are only competing, who will set up more new parties.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Dragan Bosic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! This cadastral income law is a very interesting matter because the income is bound by the tax, and of course whenever the tax occurs, the problem is burning. But it's easy to save, and it's very easy. The real cadastral income is based on some hypothetical approximations as to how much it would be possible to earn or generate from some natural property, and on the other hand, it is a real income created by someone. If I talk about a simple solution, I am talking about that there will be no problem when these two numbers are even, which we are currently discussing in Parliament. That means it's a task for someone to reconcile with each other. But this is not really the priority of my debate. My predecessor talked about dealing with serious problems, and some of my predecessors also pointed out these serious problems. I think the first colleague of Dimic was, if I remember correctly, a colleague from the Slovenian People's Party. In fact, they were talking about the consequences of natural disasters that further affect, in particular now the farmer, but not only in principle the farmer. I have pointed out this problem once, but this warning has not exactly come up with some feedback, but it is important to note more than once, even now, about the European elections or elections to the European Parliament that have been concluded. But I'd like to warn you one more time. If we are talking about the consequences of natural disasters, where we have classified glands and more, we should call on the perpetrators to account. I'm serious here. In fact, prominent climate change institutes and prominent climate scientists, among whom we have very prominent representatives, point to climate change, which are anthropogenic. And in this context, we can also include glands and, of course, all the consequences. And from this title, it would suggest calling someone to account. Despite my smallness – if I'm talking about smallness, I'm thinking about geographical or population – but we can, maybe the real term is "frech" and we call someone to account for the woes that hurt people. If I finish with the thought I gave in the first place. The cadastral income itself, if I come back, is the result of some approximations based on some data, facts, and when it is equal to reality, people will accept it. If people accept it, then any discussion on this subject will be irrelevant to us. Of course, I will support this change because there is one rule; if you do not have an original, better solution, then do not change anything at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat, Mr Ljubo Žnidar, then Mr Franz Breznik, and then Mrs Alenka Jeraj, have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry of Finance! First of all, I regret that she is no longer in the hall of her esteemed colleague, Katarina Hočevar, because I would like to ask her about who or what the criteria were when she said that the invitations were somehow adapted only to large farms and added mainly to Premura. I think there's still a few things I need to explain. Of course, I cannot agree with her statement, if I have understood it correctly. It also calls on the newly elected Members of the European Parliament from the Republic of Slovenia to negotiate well for agriculture in Slovenia, in fact, an appeal that has passed because we have already completed the reform of the common European agricultural policy. It is true that negotiations always take place between the European Commission, the Council of the European Union and indeed between the European Parliament when it comes to reforming the common agricultural policy. So you also need to understand how these things work. With regard to these reforms of the common European agricultural policy, I would like to draw attention to the call of a well-known agrarian economist and university professor, this is Dr Emil Erjavec, who points out that there is a problem in the transfer of knowledge, even when we are talking about agricultural production, and that in fact, in our traditional contexts we would urgently need a reform of the educational institutions themselves in order to make it easier and more effective to transfer knowledge to agricultural production. The law, which we are amending or in some way prolonging its validity in some way – I hope that this law will once be definitively extinguished and that we will write a whole new law with some new methodologies. In fact, when the value of the cadastral income for different cultures was expanded in 2013 according to the new methodology, we actually saw that the farmers were on their feet. Only when you start talking about the tax base and when each farmer calculates how much more this will hit him, and when he calculates that the vineyard will, say, tax hit him 10 to 14 times more than the old methodology, then it is normal for farmers to start cutting vineyards. Yes, cut, this is happening in Slovenia, this is especially happening, which I often mention, in Prekmurski gorica, in particular in Lendava Gorica, the formerly the largest complex of Slovenian vineyards. And look, just the Pomur vineyards and, of course, the vineyards of south-eastern Slovenia are vineyards that have the highest cadastral income according to this methodology, which is written in the law. Best vineyards, cadastral income per hectare, pomur region, 4 thousand 676 euros. That's income. If you want to achieve this income or if you want to get paid in this amount, I say payment, then you have to sell 15.5 tonnes of grapes – the price is 30 cents – or the low 12 tonnes of grapes, if the price is 0.40 euros. Some numbers actually don't go together, so I don't know what they were for one expert to be able to calculate such cadastral income. Here, of course, what I'm saying is, assuming that the costs are equal to nothing, which is, of course, unrealistic. On the other hand, if we look at the technical data, the density of vines per hectare is between 3,000 and 6,000 vines per hectare. And even more, if you want to have quality wine, the maximum permitted load of vines is such that the vine does not give you more than 3 kilograms of grapes. If you calculate all of this and take into account the maximum purchases, you can see that, for the cost of processing one hectare of vineyards, you must not spend more than a bad thousand euros. It doesn't work together. It is true that I believe that only a few reasonable people, in spite of all that they have done, because the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia explains that the calculations so far have taken into account only the income from grape production, that is, the old methodology, and the new ones also take into account the income from wine sales. I guess things don't add up. First he sells grapes. Then he sells wine. I hope, as it's said, there's enough common sense here. I wanted to say on one occasion how the actual numbers show a lot of nonsense or we can actually understand that these solutions are indeed such that owners encourage them to cut down vineyards. I will not discuss other uses of land. We just need to be aware that we should, in fact, and I expect the new government to do so, achieve that this law will somehow end or prepare a new one that is acceptable as soon as possible. Because, as I said in the position of the New Slovenia Group, how can a young farmer today decide to take over the farm when he does not know what to do after 2016? Of course, I support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has the floor, followed by Mr Franz Breznik, Mrs Alenka Jeraj, Mr Jože Tanko and Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u66	Dear Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! By means of a regulatory form, that is to say by adopting legislation, by regulating the agricultural strategy, it is possible to say that it is not decisive to influence what will happen to the Slovenian countryside. The current government, with the Deputy Minister Dejan Židan, has taken quite a few decisive steps in the field of agriculture, first in February 2011 with the adoption of the Cadastrian Income Act, then, somehow, I would say, quite quietly, quite quietly, quite inconceivably raised the income. Those who survive farming also receive, I'd say, these benefits. Under Minister Dejan jeedan, excise duties have been raised, including in the field of agricultural activities. I would say that it is a great happiness on the initiative of the Slovenian Democratic Party that the property tax has not been seen in the light of the world, because this would put an enormous burden on Slovenian agriculture and the Slovenian economy in the field of agriculture. If I returned to the Cadastrian Income Act, Slovenian agriculture would be burdened with EUR 113 million this year. At our initiative, this burden will be only 47 million. We can only imagine what a difference of 66 million, what a burden this is for Slovenian agriculture. How would this agriculture survive such a burden? I'd say this election time has a very good side. The good news is that today the entire government, ruling coalition supports the proposal for a Cadastrian Income Act tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party. If this pre-election time were not now, so wide, there would certainly not be a hundred percent support for our good proposal. So I would say that despite the bad political times these are good times for Slovenian agriculture and for Slovenian farms or for those who live exclusively from agricultural activities. So, of course, I also support this proposal for a Cadastrian Income Act, which gives a bright future to agriculture in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Vraničar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. I will also keep repeating this: the assessment of €113 million and €47 million is not the value of the burden on agricultural activity, it is not tax, it is not income, but it is the basis that is included in the tax base for the income tax. This is not a burden on the agricultural economy, but it is a potential market income, without taking into account the 400 million subsidies that agriculture receives each year. So last year's burden on the average effective rate of income was a good 8 million and not a 47 million and a half million and not a 113 million. Since I have the floor, allow me further clarification regarding the preparation of calculations and the preparation of the methodology itself. The lack of expertise of officials, employees and so on has been highlighted several times. This calculation was not done by the Ministry of Finance, nor by the Ministry of Agriculture, but was done by the Faculty of Biotechnical Technology on the basis of data on the value of individual costs and the amount of individual revenues prepared by the agricultural professional service. The calculations thus made or the methodology thus prepared have been verified by all stakeholders, including the Agricultural Forestry Chamber. However, last year, when the first results of the methodology were published, the methodology was found to be too volatile and, therefore, last year's proposal for a transitional period and this year's support by the Government to extend the transitional period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Breznik has the floor, followed by Mr Jože Tanko and Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u70	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Let me begin by saying that I am second-signed under the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Cadastrian Income Law. I must admit, as I have said several times in this National Assembly, that I come from the Slovenian Mountains, I am a Member from the Slovenian Mountains, from the municipalities of Lenart, from the surroundings of Lenart, from the surroundings of Lenart, from the Church, from Sveta Ana, from Sveta Trojce, from Benedict and so on, and I come from a distinctly agricultural area. We have an average farm area of about 7 hectares. I must admit that there are also larger areas in this statistics, but we even have a number of small farms that are sown on the Slovenian hills and where people are struggling to break through from month to month. This agriculture was destroyed after World War II; large farmers were dispossessed, agricultural land was literally cut into dozens or hundreds of smaller pieces, which were then given into some new property relationship to people who, of course, with a few hectares or even two, three hectares during the Socialist Yugoslavia. I must admit that agriculture has not survived or reached the final stage of this transition in these last 20 years, that it has stopped somewhere and that this transition process has also stalled in agricultural policy somewhere. So we still have a socialist model of agriculture, where the country owns a whole range of agricultural land and forests through the agricultural land fund. Look, property is the first one, it's people's motivation for any work at all. That's the problem. As we can see, Slovenia is growing, as we can see, Slovenia has very limited food supply, and these are issues that must be in order of the day in such an institution as the National Assembly, especially if we look at the trends in the world that we are following. The development of science, in particular the development of the medical profession, has shown that the use of quality food, quality water resources strengthens human health, has a preventive effect on some of the costs of medical bills, and this must be one of the basic activities –quality non-intensity agriculture. Here, too, I see some competitive advantage mainly in my field. Because we are somehow connected, as often as they say near the Austrian border, to Austrians – Austrians can use this in combination with smaller farms, combined with the so-called complementary activity on the farm through rural tourism, through cycling, where bikers visit rural tourism or also tourist farms, and can somehow survive on these farms. In our environment in this recent period there have been a number of comassations, which means some mergers of land. We urgently need quality medium-sized farms that will have an area of 20, 30 to 50 hectares, which will not be labour intensive, but will have some quality bio-processing of food. Of course, the question is something else. The question is what have different agricultural cooperatives been doing in the last year, why they did not combine these smaller food producers not only in our area, but throughout Slovenia. I think that here, too, agricultural policy or part of the commercial part of this agricultural policy has somehow stalled. It's not just cadastral income. A few weeks ago, we were saved the property tax, which we somehow defended together with the help of the Constitutional Court. See, someone in Ljubljana who writes these regulations has to recognize the specificities of different provinces in Slovenia. This is also a problem with a certain rule. Determine one farm in Slovenski gorica on some hilly part where there is also a slippery area, along with some area in Dolenjska, Primorska and so on, you know, does not go to the same basket. As a result, agriculture in the Slovenian Mountains is experiencing, I can say, a flood. These people need some process that has been reversed since 1945 until 1990, i.e. the integration of agricultural land. We have to give these people opportunities, and the opportunities are lower taxes, lower burdens on cadastral income, lower real estate taxes if this tax is ever introduced. We need to be aware of all this. We need an economically independent farmer, we do not need farms that will live forever on subsidies, but we need to give these farms the opportunity to be economically sustainable. Above all, we need to see that small, young families will remain on farms, take over these farms and that these farms can survive, live and pursue some economic goals, which must be a non-intensity quality diet in the Slovenian Mountains, if I speak for my territory. Here I also see the goal, and therefore I am also a co-signer of this bill. And I believe, dear colleagues and colleagues, that you believe that we are pursuing truly sincere, qualitative goals in order to give agriculture an opportunity to strengthen, give them a transitional period, that these incomes are smaller, and that self-sustaining will be the start of Slovenian agriculture, that they will receive a new rebirth. I ask you, in particular on behalf of Slovenian farmers, to support this law and to give producers not only food, especially livestock, in the field of wine-growing, beekeeping and everything covered by the cadastral income. In this bill we also thought of Primorsko, i.e. olive groves. So I think that the law is to be adopted at this point, especially because elections are coming, any kind of government. Before the new government is established, it will be a few months. Agriculture must survive at this time, and food is a strategically important matter. I don't think there's any hesitation here. Thank you so much again for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah has the floor, followed by a representative of the Government, if she wishes, and by a proposaler of mags. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Madam Secretary of State, you were right to say that the Ministry of Finance is not the Ministry responsible for this area, nor is the Ministry of Agriculture preparing these calculations for the Faculty of Biotechnology. However, Gurs, who is to publish these cadastral income scales each year, will do so in agreement with the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Finance. Without the consent of the two ministries, he will not do so. Both the property tax and the high cadastral income certainly do not lead to better self-sustainment, to a more developed agricultural policy with us or a better policy, but this attempt at high cadastral income, where the first calculation was EUR 300 million, and to taxes on property on agricultural land and on agricultural facilities is more likely to drive the government to accelerate the abandonment of farming on smaller farms or to ensure that these land is taken over by the best land of small farms, which are still very small farmers for European conditions and do not have much prospect of surviving in the future. Smaller farmers whose average area of agricultural land is 6.5 hectares and the average age of the farm operator is over 60 years, or the rest of which will then be left to cultivation. This policy, which is evident, certainly does not lead to better self-sustainment and prevention of the growth of agricultural land. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that this policy needs to be changed, that this policy is a viable one. Even better informed or more educated farmers, the larger ones, especially livestock farmers, find that in our primary-farm farms, milk and meat production will in the long run not be able to withstand the necessity of complementary activity, urgent processing, the necessary added value that will enable survival. Those small farms that deal with vineyards — if they were to produce only grapes — would certainly not have survived long ago. We know that it is possible to survive on a farm that deals with vegetation, with a few hectares, perhaps even in fertilisation. Which of the farms then has another processing, also organised marketing. I think that agricultural policy should go in the direction of how the average farm or small farm in Slovenia will survive, stimulate or somehow help them to remove bureaucratic barriers in order to undertake complementary activities. Then organic production; we know that we import 80% of organic food in Slovenia, but we have very favourable conditions, climate conditions, to significantly increase this. Small vineyards – you said before that the average area of the vineyard is 0.3 hectares or less. That vine grower can't imagine marketing on his own. He can't survive on his own. The marketing of these small vineyards, the maintenance of small market surpluses, including those with so-called hobby production or boutique production producing perhaps a thousand litres of wine, but very high quality, should be organised. The Wine Act made their lives miserable because they all have to sell bottled wine. We have cases now that wine growers have top marks at a thousand liters of wine, but they say they don't know where to sell it, that they're not allowed to market it, and if they don't spend it themselves, they'll either give it to someone, pour it out, or even turn it into burning. We can't let that happen. In this way, we will not develop rural areas in such a policy. Of course, the easiest thing to do is to adopt a law, tax as if our rurals were so patient — admittedly, they had been through a lot of crises — that we should not even be producing food for ourselves. It's like a policy is going in the direction that it's best for everyone to go to trade, there's a tax, there's a VAT bill, and the country has some of it if a person comes home with healthy food, and the country doesn't have any of it. This is where it looks like it's going. I hope that this will change, that this cadastral income, too, will be this group that is preparing new legislation – I think it has met several times before, but there are no results because obviously this legislation cannot be corrected by giving the desired results. We can only look across the border. In Austria, everything is worth it, everything on a small farm, everything they can sell. Agriculture along with tourism, I think, is the solution, and in neighbouring Austria this has long been very good living and also gives great income to the state itself. With us, it's like it's blasphemous for a man in the country to sell those very high-quality little market surpluses and something. I am pleased that this law will be adopted today with the support of all parties. However, I appeal to the Ministry of Agriculture, more than the Ministry of Finance, to take this matter seriously and to try agricultural policy at all as a new financial perspective as a great opportunity to do more for smaller farms, for smaller farmers, in which direction the new European agricultural policy goes. Agriculture receives 400 million subsidies per year. This is not a small amount and it could probably be used much more useful for rural development and for our self-sustainment than it has been used so far. Of course, there are some lobbies that have been taking politics one way for decades now, when they exclude these small rural farms and want to create some larger farms that are competitive and comparable to European farms, and that, believe me, we will never achieve that. We can only destroy the countryside, the cultural landscape, the way of life, the culture of this nation, because the centuries have lived this way, and now, it seems, we want to destroy them and make them workless. Or it is not better for a farmer to grow land at home, to recycle on his land, to produce healthy food, to go to some recreation, and the land is growing, if nothing is to be paid. I think it's a mistake, and this is the task of the agriculture ministry, not you, but somehow avoiding it, if this marriage isn't theirs and it's none of their business. As early as 2006, the Minister of Agriculture had to sign these calculations or the basis for a cadastral income dose. So these two laws must be of great harm to the countryside. Fortunately, we have managed to stop this somehow, but I fear that Slovenia's new agricultural policy is not going in the right direction, and it will be a real shame if we do not set the right perspective in the new financial perspective for 7 years and last as long as possible in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Both the Government’s representative and the Magi’s proponent have the opportunity to speak. Andrej Vizjak. Both gave up further discussions in this part. I conclude the debate on the bill as a whole. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. The assembly will decide on the draft law in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 2nd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, this is a third-party proposal for a law on cross-border security of call-for-sports in violation of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 30 Members and Members, with first-signed Mr Joseph Kavticnik. The wording of the bill was prepared by the services of the National Assembly for the third reading. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the drafters of the bill to Mr Jožef Kavtičnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Madam President. Nice greetings, Secretary of State, other representatives of the Government, fellow Member and fellow Members! First of all, thanks go to all of you who have supported all the amendments to this law in the second reading. We also have some additions in the third reading, which are of a more cohesive nature, due to the amendments adopted in the second reading. The law has an important message – a certain percentage of their income is recognised as tax relief for professional and top athletes. This part of their revenue is collected in the bridging fund and the tax exemption is only temporary. However, when an athlete starts using funds, he taxes himself, but no more than 30% of the amount. By exempting a certain part of the funds from immediate taxation, we stimulate the employer, a sports club or a sports society, in order to or to hire more athletes than any other, thereby providing them with social security and paying compulsory benefits to the State. With more athletes involved, more revenue will also be available for the budget. The employer or athlete will provide the fund with funds for the time when its sports route ends. In normal circumstances, it ends somehow after 10 years, but it can also be significantly earlier due to unexpected injury. The law also specifies who this amount or law will apply to, and it will be for professional athletes or athletes employed in a sports society or sports club, top athletes by the category of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia – associations of sports associations that are self-employed or employed elsewhere, for example, in the Ministry, for defence, for internal affairs and so on, who will manage the fund and who is responsible for its management, who is the guardian of the fund and what its tasks are, who manages the management of the fund. In the second reading of the law, it was pointed out that the law on overprotection of professional athletes was not a system law. The law is systemic, but it is true that it does not solve all problems in the field of sport, but it touches on the problems that professional and top athletes face in the face of enormous taxes on their earnings. We all know that the benefits received by athletes are one-off benefits or benefits received in a short period of time, and these benefits can be very high, and therefore the athletes fall into the highest tax grade. It would be fair for athletes to be divided into longer periods of time or with a delay as provided for by this law. The next observation was that I did not accept the offer of a hand after the cooperation. I strongly reject this observation because I have worked with all those who wanted to cooperate, both with the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, with the Olympic Committee of Slovenia and also with individual Members who wanted to participate. At the request of the OKS and the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, I postponed the debate on the parental committee as well as the debate at the plenary session of the National Assembly. At that time, we held a consultation organised by the OKS at the premises of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, where representatives of national sector sports associations and sports associations participated. They all unanimously supported the bill, and on their proposal we introduced some additions, and this is that from the age of 35 we carried on to the age of 30 – this is the period after which the athlete can start using these funds – we have also included those top athletes who are not only employed in sports societies or sports clubs, but are also employed in ministries. However, I could not accept the proposal to withdraw the law from the procedure. The government and the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport were in the way of tax work, and this is an essential part of this law. If that were not the case in marriage, of course this law would make no sense. Nor was I able to withdraw the proposal because 30 Members were signed under the law. That the law does not have the support of the professional public, is not true, as I mentioned earlier that it is an expert public [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] This has been defined and supported by law. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u75	Thank you very much. To present my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Aljuš Pertinac, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u76	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice-President. Dear Members and Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposed law in the proposed text. We are of the opinion that the solutions proposed are not comprehensive and do not regulate the position of top athletes and professional athletes in a way that would in fact mean an essential solution to their problems that they face after the end of their career. As you know, the proposed legal solutions in some way introduce a form of private savings supported by State tax advantages in the form of a reduction in the tax rate. In our view, we are moving away from the current leadership to take care of the careers of top athletes after the end of the sport path mainly by encouraging integration in education programmes and by employment in public administration. In this way, we introduce a new direction that says that, during a sports career, the profits that athletes receive from prizes or from sponsoring contributions should be put on the side, according to the household, that this is untaxed. After the end of a career, when they start to use it, they are taxed at a uniform lower rate. This means, in some ways, that it is an early retirement or retirement, which is long before time, in short, that athletes are not encouraged to do so in the context of the possibility of living another active life after the end of a sports career, but to live from their savings. In its opinion, when it was adopted, the government, of course, announced that if this law was not adopted, would produce a more appropriate solution within six months. I guess we're not gonna be able to see this now. Once again, however, if this law is adopted, it is a very small group of Slovenian athletes who receive these essential parts of the law, as the applicant himself has already stated. In short, this is not a law that would mean a major change to the vast majority of Slovenian professional athletes. However, time will show how many of these solutions will be used and whether they will be in a much better position. If that is not the case, I fear that we have lost some valuable time to propose more comprehensive, more systematic solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the New Slovenia Group, Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u78	Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Government, welcome! Christian Democrats want to support the sport path of Slovenian top athletes, as well as their preparation for life on the finished sports path. For good results, extraordinary efforts have to be made, and a lot of athletes have serious health problems later. However, citizens are increasingly demanding better results. Most of the time, we do not even know how much effort, denial, financial resources must be invested so that the athlete can achieve the highest result, which we are all proud of. At least in the early stages of success, the whole family is working. But we're very critical if it doesn't work. For this reason, the Christian Democrats contributed a signature to the Proposal for a Law on the Restraint Insurance of Professional athletes, which was written by the Slovenian Sports Union. Sportsmen often lose their livelihood after the end of their professional sports careers, not only to have sufficient resources to launch a new business idea. As a result, former professional athletes may have major difficulties in entering a new life period, especially if their sports industry is not the most profitable but at the same time requires a lot of resources to cover the costs of training, equipment, travel, insurance and so on. In some European countries, so-called bridge or career pension funds have been set up as a facilitating measure to mitigate this transition and to maintain the normal standard of living of athletes in the new life period, allowing the athlete to pay savings in a cyclical manner. The proposed law provides these athletes with resources for a time when they will be involved in life and when sport will no longer provide them with a basic or basic source of income. The Ministry of Education, Science and Sport has the responsibility to complete the law and bring it into line with the Slovenian and European legal order, if necessary. We are all very proud of the successful Slovenian athletes and athletes, as our ambassadors and promoters are. It is right to allow them to move from a sports career to a normal life as much as possible. Members of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will be supported by the Proposal for a Law on the Restraint Insurance of Professional athletes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Andrej Chus.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. We care about Slovenian sport, Slovenian athletes and athletes in the Slovenian Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. We reiterate with great concern that Slovenian sport has suffered profound consequences in the present crisis. The outgoing government has only deepened the crisis in Slovenian sport. The country-level index of funding for sport for 2014 provided by the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport is 47.3 per year. This means that the ministry has more than halved its funds for sport this year. We stress with particular concern that the Ministry has recklessly reduced funds for the most vulnerable groups, for the group of pre-school children by 20%, for children of special needs athletes by 32%, and even for top athletes by 20%. Instead of preparing a package of measures to support Slovenian sport, the Ministry responsible for sport has to date only attended the National Assembly with amendments to the Law on Property Transformation of the Loteria Slovenije, which was rejected last week. The Act on the Crossing Insurance of Professional athletes comes from the sector and this law has to be prepared and proposed to the Government by the Slovenian Sports Union. We ourselves welcome the initiative and readiness of the Slovenian Sports Union, which has been representing the law and knocking on our doors for six years. I think the representatives of the Slovenian Sports Union have proved to be a constructive partner at this time and it is right to listen to them as well. The Act on Overstretching Insurance of Professional athletes enjoys the support of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. We believe that this is an important step forward and an improvement in Slovenian legislation in the field of sport, which we consider to be a stone age to this day. However, we call on the Government and the competent ministry to proceed as soon as possible with the preparation and adoption of the implementation plan contained in the resolution on the national sport programme. We believe that in the field of Slovenian sport, and especially in the areas of the accessibility of sports education, we think, above all, that there is a great deal to be done here, especially in the field of employment in sport and sponsorship in Slovenian sport. A broad and high-quality debate was held in the present examination of the law on bridge insurance for professional athletes. We can conclude, however, that the proposal for a law enjoys broad support from the professional public, athletes and also from parliamentary groups in the National Assembly. Since we want to do well with Slovenian sport, we will support the draft law in the SDS Group, and we call on the Government to approach other important measures to improve legislation in the field of sport in the Republic of Slovenia as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The text is by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, Mrs Alenka Bikar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Act on Overstretching Insurance of Professional athletes began before 2010. The draft was introduced to Dr. Beast, then to Dr. Lukšič, Dr. Turk, and then to Dr. Pikalo. People working at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs also participated in the drafting and writing of the law. None of those ministers had comments on the draft law. Nevertheless, no government wanted to take him more seriously than to adopt him. Respected, the law that is before us, takes nothing away from anyone, harms no one, but gives an important positive message to our top athletes and athletes, and that is: Slovenian policy has also realized that our top athletes and our top athletes deserve a law that will allow them to be part of the prizes, bonuses and earnings earned at the time of the greatest success, into a special fund that will provide them with some social security immediately after their completed sports career. It should be pointed out that this law is not about State aid but about some form of self - help or some form of self - insurance. If the employer is an athlete or an athlete's sports company or a sports club, he or she is obliged to pay a certain amount into this fund. In the event that an athlete or an athlete is an independent sports worker or an employee through a particular state institution, an athlete or an athlete may be voluntarily involved in such insurance. The law, however, allows for the partial and temporary suspension of the tax on that part of the funds collected under the bridge insurance, which must have the status of a top athlete or athlete. The law also determines when an athlete or an athlete can start using these funds. Since the law had not been tabled by the Government in the parliamentary procedure, it was not subject to interdepartmental coordination and therefore received a number of comments from the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. All the comments were supported by the Ambassadors and Members of Positive Slovenia. The bill has the support of the general public. He was presented at a consultation organised by the OKS – the Association of Sports Associations in the Sport Ministry in Ljubljana this April and received the support of all members of the OKS, i.e. national industry and sports associations, as well as the committees of top athletes at the Olympic Committee of Slovenia. Members and Members of the Parliament of the Positive Slovenia Group, we are actively involved in all stages of the consideration of the law and we will also unanimously confirm the law in the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with his fellow Members and Members! Several times the position on public treatment and broad professional support for this law have already been cited. On 8 May, we received a letter from the Slovenian Professional Council for Sport, which reads: "The professional council of the Republic of Slovenia for sport supports the purpose of the draft law on reinvention insurance of professional athletes, with the proposed law and the Olympic Committee of Slovenia – The Association of Sports Associations proposing that public consideration of the bill be carried out, in particular to include national sector sports associations, local sports associations and sports associations, as well as the general public. The Section for Sport of the Republic of Slovenia calls on the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport to actively participate in the process of further coordination of the Proposal for a Law on the Restraint Insurance of Professional athletes in order to prepare such a text of the law, which will take into account the comments made on the proposal of the law by both the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly." As regards the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, it can be concluded that, in particular, those relating to the concept of law have not been taken into account with the amendments. With regard to the Government's opinion, however, it should be noted that the Government, in its rejection of the law, announced the willingness to prepare a law to remedy the weaknesses within 6 months. None of the applicants expected that the law would be withdrawn because we were aware that the withdrawal of the number of different signatories was difficult to achieve, but it was proposed that the applicant wait until the law was examined so long as the government proposal went in parallel with it and that a law was acceptable in all respects, nomotechnically and substantively. All of this has not happened, and right before the end of our term of office at an extraordinary meeting, we are adopting a law which the proposer says is systemic. It's a rather unusual decision. Nor is it possible to say that in previous proposals or attempts to make a law, there were no services and ministers of concern about the law. It was twice Janša's government that could have adopted the law, but it wasn't. It is true, even during the Ministership of Dr. Lukšič, that the experiment by the Slovenian Sports Union was presented, and the proposed concept of the law was not further adopted. Let me stress in particular that the Slovenian Sports Union does not have the status of a representative union, but by law it has a considerable role and power. In particular, let me warn you of one thing. According to Article 27 of the Act, which deals with a committee of the bridging fund that oversees the management of the bridging fund, two representatives of the committee are appointed by the debtors, saying those who have to pay to the fund and three representatives are appointed by the Slovenian Sports Union, so they have the opportunity to propose a trade union, not those who pay, although they are their means, but those who do not have the status of representative representatives of athletes. The second question is, from which sports industry has the most members of the Slovenian Sports Union. What is a fundamental systemic deficiency is enshrined in Article 2 which has remained closed and has not been amended, namely that bridge insurance is based on the payment of professional athletes' contributions and on the commitment of the State. This has been particularly pointed out by the law's proponents because we cannot commit countries to something that is governed by tax legislation in such a law as we have before us, and in most countries where such a bridge fund for athletes is also governed by tax legislation. No country has a special law, just like we have it now. And let me stress, this is not a law for sport, as it is not a law against sport, we do not say it at all, but it is only a law that defines a financial mechanism in which athletes themselves or those who are committed when athletes have a regular working relationship with the debtor, they pay. However, in particular, I should point out that this payment is not without other obligations; the bridge fund requires a 3 % contribution when entering the bridge fund, for each year 1% of the average amount paid and at the time of withdrawal 1% of the payments or payments made. You can calculate this for yourself; if it is a single payment that can be up to EUR 5,000 high, it has to pay 1%. However, I leave aside now what is the contribution that must be paid as a taxpayer for the tax. I would like to point out that I would expect greater linguistic care in the drafting of the law, because we would like to stop at this dimension of the law if it is the Government's proponent. Let me say that this law requires a number of editorial procedures. What is most disturbing, however, is that the law does not comply with the basic provision of Article 115, paragraph 4, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which states: "In the text of the articles, women and men must be used mutatis mutandis in those first articles or chapters of the draft law laying down the basic subjects of the bill, stating that the title in the male sex should be used further." That's not a warning. The addressees are not mentioned in women and men in sexual form at first mention, since in the first article, the continuation of professional athletes replaces only the association of professional and top athletes, but does not carry out this indication of what should be done after the fourth paragraph of Article 115 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The law doesn't give athletes anything, but athletes are obliged to broadcast part of the money they spend, agree, invest it in a fund from which they draw on their completed sports careers. However, they can absorb as much as they have paid in or as much as they have created rights from payments. It should also be added that insurance, like any other, has two characteristics – that it is compulsory, so it is not available to an individual professional athlete, whether he will pay or not, but compulsory, and that he has a more favourable tax base. In setting up the Fund, the proposer also sums up the solutions contained in several different laws from the list of offers, resulting in what the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly defines as "that the proposed legal text denotes non-systematicity, lack of transparency, lack of clarity and lack of consistency, reflecting both the absence of internal structural parts and the substantive subordination or non-conformity of the bill". It is true that the amendments tabled – throughout the process, they were in line with the original 41-article proposal, together with the amendments tabled so far and the amendments adopted so far, 63, and they, as has been said, did not satisfy the warnings of the Legislative and Legal Service. Some important concerns have not been addressed, for example, that the duration of the bridge insurance in the view of the Legal and Legal Service on the home labour body is not adequately determined that the provisions concerning the bridge fund are sub-normary and unclear. No important consideration shall be taken of the mandatory transfer of management from the Capital Company. The issue of the entry into force of the law in view of the complexity of the changes has never been addressed; this is relatively short. If the applicant referred in one part to the provisions of the STIZ, it is unacceptable for us, for the Social Democrats, that it is based on an express individualistic perception but does not contain any solidarity component. In fact, the characteristic of ZPIZ is that our pension system is based on solidarity. This law does not take account of it, but as much as a person pays, it can also draw as much from this fund if something does not happen to the fund. So, one small part of the hostages is being used. The Fund is expected to include only 500 to 600 athletes, and then it creates an impression that it is a whole sphere and that the whole sphere is governed by the issue we are talking about. If the majority in the National Assembly had serious intentions to give to athletes, we feel that they would allow co-ordination in their demands. We believe that in the past week the amendment of the Law on Property Conversion of the Loteria Slovenije has been rejected by the possibility of co-management of athletes in matters that are still affecting them. It is unusual that the law has a highly underestimating attitude towards the ability to judge professional athletes because it is justified that athletes can or cannot deal with the resources they earn at the time, and that instead of this absence of time or ability, some other authorities will manage their resources. The question is, who will take responsibility for the marriage? The government's offer to draft the law has now been abolished because the law will be adopted. Well, the offer is denied. The National Assembly will soon be disbanded, and the question is, who will be responsible for the words spoken, with which much praise has been given at the expense of this law, how many advantages this law brings to athletes. And so, of course, it can be that the traps that clearly exist in this law are covered, and some of them are also reminded of the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you. And we won't support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The text shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, Mrs Alenka Pavlič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Vice President. The proposal for a law on bridging insurance of professional athletes represents a step forward in regulating the area of top professional sports and athletes in Slovenia, so the purpose of the law and the objectives of the law cannot be challenged or deserved support. Nevertheless, the text of the law contains some shortcomings or dilemmas that could cause more problems than have helped to resolve the material status of athletes after their completed career. While the law does not interfere with the regulation of the wider area of sport, it regulates only a separate part, namely the so-called bridge insurance. In fact, it allows professional athletes to charge part of their income untaxed under the so-called bridge insurance for a period after the end of their career. The State is expected to support the latter with appropriate tax incentives. As the law interferes with the area governed by four system laws, pension insurance, investment funds, the market for financial instruments and sport, and falls within the area of three ministries, sport, work and finance, the question has been raised as to whether it would be necessary for all those ministries and Kad to participate as the intended manager of the bridge fund. The latter, in the legislative process or before, did not occur during the lawmaking phase. The government agrees with the purposes and objectives of the law, but not in the proposed text, nor has the Ministry of Finance agreed, and the coalition partners have expressed disagreement with the amendment of the law. In the Group of Non-Related Members, we find that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the law in this form. It does not support it because of systemic inconsistencies, as it is supposed to cause more problems. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has also shown that the law has some incomprehensibility. Although amendments were adopted at the meeting of the parent working body, they eliminate certain inconsistencies. For the second reading at the meeting of the assembly, the proposer drafted amendments which have been adopted and which, however, bring some substantive changes, remain open questions or fundamental concerns regarding the circle of insurers, the specific tax status of payments and payments and the manager of the bridge fund. The government has accepted a commitment to prepare its proposal for a law within 6 months, which will also drink water at the implementation level. It is true that we have a derogation from the government, which should not affect the drafting of the text of a law that regulates and regulates the laudable purpose it pursues because of the importance of the matter itself. We will therefore, as we have already announced in the second reading, vote in full on the draft law at our own discretion in the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the National List, Mr Branko Kurnjek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with his fellow Members and Members! A week ago, we had a second reading of the draft law on bridge insurance for professional athletes on the agenda of regular meetings of the National Assembly. Although we have heard a lot of words or suggestions about support or non-support to this law that it would in any case make sense to uphold the law before the elections, as athletes are a topic that is also well-sold in politics, we remain in our position weeks ago. For we cannot support a bad marriage with the excuse that some others use, that it is better to adopt a bad marriage than none, and that it will then be perfected in the future. We believe that such thinking is unacceptable and irresponsible. Nevertheless, I would like to briefly renew and repeat our position from a week ago, which has not changed to this day. In the Civil Gazette, we believe that the legal arrangements for the insurance of athletes after a completed career are necessary for several reasons, while at the same time we warn that athletes should not be branded unfit to treat their income rationally, as some others would like to show. The situation after a completed sports career needs to be regulated, but the draft law we are considering does not regulate their situation in a comprehensive manner and has a number of shortcomings, which the Legislative and Legal Service has also pointed out in a broad opinion, which the text of the law has referred to as non-systematic, opaque, unclear and inconsistent, and has also been written in some of the provisions by causing inequality. The amendments adopted to the draft law at the meeting of the home committee and the second reading at the meeting of the National Assembly are, however, followed by some comments by the Legislative and Legal Service, but do not address all the essential conceptual concerns. Here again, I will say a few reasons why the proposed law in the Civil Gazette can unfortunately be considered unacceptable. As it is said, it is an unsystematic, opaque, inexplicable and potentially unconstitutional law. The bill does not constitute a sufficient set of beneficiaries to justify its adoption. Tax policy measures should be governed by tax legislation, the law should contain an assessment of the public financial consequences and be in line with the Ministry of Finance. And perhaps another reason that I also pointed out last week; that is, the main purpose of bridge insurance is to make a successful transition to another form of active professional life after the end of a sports career, and this should also help the funds invested in the bridge fund. However, the bill provides that an athlete or an athlete is unconditionally entitled to this right only when he is 30 years old. If a sports career, without a legally provided reason, ends earlier and, of course, has all and exclusively the right to do so, it shall not be justified or justified under favourable conditions. Here, however, such athletes lose their basic purpose, which is, as has already been said, the transition to a new way of life after the end of an active sport path. And, of course, we could also list the reasons. We do not support the draft law in the National Gazette, because, as it is said, the bridge insurance of athletes is governed by partial, non-systematic and unclear rules. Given the complexity of the topic, it is essential that the area be fully examined and, together with the competent ministries, appropriate and financially sustainable solutions can be found, which can also be found in practice. The Ministry of Education, Science and Sport offered its hand and promised to draw up an appropriate law within 6 months, but the proposer did not want to hear or heed it. Finally, I stress once again that we are in favour of the legal regulation of this area in the National Gazette, but we want the law not only to appear to be attractive but also to be substantively assigned, in line with all stakeholders and, of course, supported by a broad majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian People's Party's Group, Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Vice President of the National Assembly. Honourable Secretary of State with fellow Members and Members of Parliament! As we have done in the previous two cases of the proposed Act on the Obstacle Insurance of Professional athletes, in the Slovenian People's Party we will also express our support for this bill in the third instance, thus providing Slovenian athletes with at least minimum conditions for better social security after the end of their careers. With all the successes that our sports heroes have made us happy throughout the year, this is the least we can do as politicians. The career of a professional athlete usually lasts from his teenage years to the beginning of his thirties. It is therefore a period in which man is in excess of his power. This period is used by ordinary people to learn, start a career, strengthen social contacts, and also create a family, while most professional athletes are severely deprived of it because of training, racing and continuous travel. Thus, after the end of an active sports career, many of them are left without a more visible education, making it difficult for them to get to a stable job and directly to social security. This is particularly problematic if a professional athlete has not achieved the highest results during his career, which provide more funds in his bank account. The proposed law on bridge insurance for professional athletes, in our view, provides a good basis for regulating the smoother transition of a professional athlete from an active career to a normal life, if I may express myself. The law introduces a bridge fund into which a professional athlete himself or his employer will make contributions that will depend on the amount of his income and the gross amount of income, wages, awards, funds will be used as the basis for the payment of contributions. The funds collected in the sport's personal account within the bridge fund may, however, be used by the athlete after the end of his career either in the form of a bridging wage paid monthly by one of the insurance undertakings to which the funds from the fund will be transferred, or in a single payment if the amount collected in his account does not exceed EUR 5,000. In doing so, it is worth noting that the obligation to pay the tax will arise in the payment of the funds to the athlete, while the tax on the payment to the fund will in principle not be charged. We hope that this will remain the case for the consideration of other tax laws that we will deal with and provide a basis for improving the business environment. In the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party Group, it is the duty of the State to establish such conditions through concrete measures as will enable athletes to live a decent life even after the end of their careers. This is, after all, our moral responsibility. In previous discussions, we have expressed our disappointment at the government or ministry responsible for sport, which in our view should be one that proposes systemic solutions to ensure the social security of top athletes. If this law is passed, however, the Government will be forced to find a way to bring the provisions of the law to life. Members and Members of the Slovenian People's Party estimate that the proposed law on bridge insurance for professional athletes establishes one of the paths to a known goal, that is to increase the social security of athletes after the end of their career. That is why we will also support the proposed law on bridge insurance for professional athletes in third countries, and we will also support the proposed amendments that are still improving the text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u91	Thank you very much. We have another position on the Group of Members, namely the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. The position will be presented by Mrs Marija Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. Say good-bye to everyone again! In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we are well aware of the importance of Slovenian sport and the outstanding sports results that our athletes have achieved since the time of the former country. Today, in our independent country, success is even better and even greater, especially due to their extraordinary efforts, diligence and will. But the state has contributed to the excellence of their results, so to speak, with all the positive measures available to our athletes and their trainers. All of these measures were presented by the Secretary of State last Tuesday at the time of the second reading of the law. Well, it must be admitted that our country does not behave stepmotherly to athletes. Even this, still current government must not be attributed to our athletes and athletes, in particular because it has given a negative opinion to this bill. Parliamentary Law-Legal Service has also assessed the law as non-systematic, vague and uncoordinated, in short, inappropriate. Despite the amendment, the law, according to our assessment, is still not enough to meet all the criteria that every law must fulfil not only in a nominal sense, but also in terms of fundamental legal principles such as trust in law and legal certainty and equal treatment or non-discrimination. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we are convinced that this law, as it is, will cause unequal treatment within the same group of athletes. We are also convinced that this law would be adopted in an irresponsible manner, particularly in view of the current public financial situation in the country, when, for example, there is a specific risk of co-financing transport to students and students at the moment, as this proposal for legislation, due to tax reliefs, constitutes a negative impact on the state budget. For us, the law is also unacceptable because it discriminates against other comparable groups regarding the possibility of establishing special favourable insurance under special tax advantages. We are even more disturbed by the proposaler's concern for financial benefits only certain, this is a narrow group of people. From the point of view of the preference of the narrow circle of athletes and discrimination to the other Slovenian population, especially to unemployed citizens and citizens, and from this point of view the issue arises. How can a person adjust to life at the expense of minimal or even zero incomes and without special tax advantages when losing a job? In our opinion, this law is not in place. The applicant says that it is necessary to provide for athletes after the end of their careers in order to facilitate their transition to a normal life, while also acknowledging it, as stated in the recital to the bill’s proposal that athletes be foolishly equipped with their own financial resources. I wonder what those who remain unemployed should have in their possession. Where is our solidarity now? In all these concerns, despite the high respect of our athletes, the Member and the Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we unfortunately cannot support or abstain from the draft law on bridge insurance for professional athletes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u93	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. However, I must inform you now that, due to a malfunction in the computer time measurement system, I am interrupting the meeting for 10 minutes and will continue for 15 minutes in 4 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u94	Dear Members and Members! We continue with the adjourned session. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the draft law as a whole. Mr Aluš Pertinač, Secretary of State, also entered the floor before the regular application.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u95	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice-President. Dear Members and Members! Perhaps just a few additional explanations in relation to the debates or views of the groups. It is right that we support Slovenian sport, but it is wrong to overlook that in the meantime something is also done for Slovenian sport. With regard to the implementation plan of the national sport programme, I would like to say that this is a public debate and is expected to be discussed and adopted on 6 June at the Sport Expert Council. With regard to sport funds, however, it is important to stress that last year's index is indeed lower but in the field of investment, because last year, as you know, last year in the previous 2007-2013 programming period, when European projects were still under way, and it is true that last year we spent as much as 18 million European Regional Development Fund funds, and this year this money is significantly less because the programming period or the drawdown of funds is ending. Otherwise, it is an index of resources in relation to last 90 years in the state budget, and it should be pointed out that last year there was also a European basketball championship. It is clear that this is not every year, but it is true that at the time of the government's launch, the budgetary resources for the implementation of this competition were not provided. As we know, there were those who thought of not even performing the championship. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Pavlišič has the following word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u97	Thank you for your word. The principles of this marriage are certainly fine. That an individual sportsman spends part of his income at a time when, for example, he has high incomes on a special savings account and thus extends the payment to periods when he is no longer active and his income will be reduced accordingly. This idea is certainly a good idea and should be extended to all inhabitants. I don't know why we wouldn't support, in the same way as athletes, scientists, inventors or creators of some kind of startup that also occasionally succeeds a large target and then, at some point, they get relatively large money or large revenue, and then they would stretch it out for a longer period. It's certainly a good idea, and I really don't know why we should be confined here just to athletes. It's clear why it's worth it. It is also worth it from a tax point of view, clearly. However, if we introduce another additional tax relief for top athletes and thus give them an appropriate recognition, I will say, okay. This law, however, implies that all professional athletes who have a contract of employment with a company that is a member of a national sector sport association will be obliged to protect themselves in this way and that something will go into this fund from their salary. Unlike those who can voluntarily be insured, who have the status of a top athlete regardless of whether they are employed or not. Let's see what this actually means for someone who has, say, a thousand euros of gross wages and will necessarily be included in this insurance. With a thousand euros of gross wages, I took a relatively low salary, which means 81 euros lower the net salary of this athlete. That's how much it means. Of this, I think 120 euros will actually go into this fund, but its monthly income will be 81 euros lower, which means, in other words, that what he gets in his pocket will be reduced by 8% of the gross salary, or that if we look at only the net salary, it will fall by as much as 10%. One tenth of his net salary will simply be reduced by this law. If we look at one, say, a more successful athlete who has 5,000 euros in gross wages, we are talking about 940 euros in lower net salary after the introduction of this law. 940 euros will be less in his pocket every month, which means 19% of his gross salary, or if we look at his net salary, we will essentially reduce his net salary for a third. This must be said about this law. I'm not gonna tell you whether that's right or wrong. I believe that the applicant has also spoken to athletes about these numbers and has obtained the right consent from them to agree, but it is only right to say so. To get a thousand 765 euros in his pocket instead of 2 000 705 euros in his pocket. I hope that we will not have great complaints about this because I believe that all of us in this National Assembly wish the athletes the best and agree. I would rather see if this law was entirely based on volunteerism, it is said that any athlete can decide for himself whether to accept this additional contribution, which lowers his net salary or does not fit in. It is said that it would be entirely voluntary because volunteerism is already included in this law. Sporters who do not have a contract of employment decide voluntarily whether or not to enter the scheme and also take a voluntary decision to make payments to the fund on the basis of certain single premiums or sponsorships. So volunteering is already included in this law, and perhaps it would be right to extend this option around volunteerism. The other thing we can't overlook here is bureaucratic obstacles. I don't know if we really can't adopt any laws in this National Assembly that don't introduce these additional bureaucratic obstacles, but let's take a look here. If anyone wants to, I will say, receive a pension or a one-off payment on the basis of what he himself has paid into this fund before 30 years, and this is only in the event that he has health reasons, a commission is needed, a form is needed, a decision is needed, an opportunity is opened for complaints by this Commission, and a regulation is needed for the functioning of this Commission. Why is all this necessary, and why do we need a limit on these 30 years? Why is it that if we are based here on volunteering, let us not, for example, allow some gymnasts to simply decide at 25 years of age, end their career and then draw 5 years of funding from this fund, complete in this way, say, studies and then, as we call it, continue their usual professional path? Why is this not possible, why do we need to introduce these additional bureaucratic obstacles and some additional restrictions? Then there's the insurance register run by the Ministry. What's this about? And then when you sign into this register, you have to make an insurance contract with the manager of these assets anyway. Why don't you just stay here and make a contract on this insurance, and then the Ministry, if it needs this data, if it needs a record of these, then it gets a register of these active contracts from the manager, we've done the thing substantially, substantially simpler. And when it comes to the controller, it seems somehow that the biggest winner of this law is actually the controller who is determined by the law itself, namely the Capital Society of Pension and Disability Insurance. And here we don't know how this was chosen and we don't even know how this fund should actually be managed. The law simply states that it is governed by investment principles governed by pension law. And I'm going to ask here if anyone has looked at what these principles in the pension law really mean. I can count them because I've looked at them; it's about the fact that the funds have to be scattered; it's about being liquid; it's about paying attention to liquidity. And a few others, but it's essentially irrelevant. There is no, say, guaranteed profitability here, which is in similar, comparable laws related to such matters. We typically have some guaranteed profitability there. Neither here in this law nor in the related laws, any management direction. With regard to pension funds, it is very typical that we have three different approaches for different age groups. We all know that when you're younger, when you're up to the end, there's still a relatively large pension, there's more to it than a more aggressive investment policy that brings higher risks and higher risks. As you get closer to your pension, it makes more sense that it is a conservative investment policy that has lower yields and lower risks. What we're talking about here is not in the law or the word, so I'm very afraid that those who are going to get into this, and some of them are going to be forced to buy a cat in a frog. This is one of the inadequacies of this law, and it would be nice to arrange it before we adopt this law, without fixing it later. Speaking of which, let's see what kind of returns he's provided in the past. In particular, if we look at the First Pension Fund fund managed by the Blue Insurance Company, which is owned by the said manager. Profitability of 2 % was guaranteed in 2012. Guaranteeed return of 2 % per year. If we look at the second fund managed by the Capital Insurance and Disability Insurance Company, namely the Compulsory Additional Pension Insurance Fund, it amounts to less than 3 % of this annual income over the last 10 years. So I hope those who are forced to enter are satisfied with this. Those who volunteer will know and decide for themselves. In particular, I also have an account in supplementary pension insurance, and the guaranteed value of the funds in my account currently amounts to 126.86 euros, but the actual value is only 101.41 euros. So, basically, I've lost something so far. And that's the result of this controller. Here I ask why it was not possible for the controller to open up so that everyone could choose who would manage it for him. Why do we have to choose here to have those friends of ours from the Capital Society with us? Why couldn't this be opened in marriage? I'll add it again. The idea itself is excellent. The idea itself is excellent. If we were to extend it to all people and open the possibility of selecting the fund, it is said that this is not specified in the law, but to open up this option of choosing the fund to which it is being paid, and then, say, only for athletes, if we wanted to help them, would we add some additional tax reliefs – if we did, we would get a great second pension pillar, which we now have more or less in Slovenia. And we're missing because the one we've already adopted is so much more bureaucratic. This way we could get a great second pension pillar, but we missed that opportunity again. And they would get one without excessive red tape, without any coercion and with the possibility of selecting the contractor, which is very important in this case when we talk about incomes and incomes over the longer term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u98	Thank you very much. The following will have the floor, Mr Jožef Kavtičnik, as the proposer, followed by Mrs Ljudmila Novak, mag. Stanko Stepichnik, mag. Andrej Vizjak and Alenka Bikar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u99	Thank you very much. I won't go in the order, but I'll go in the order maybe, but in the back. [[...]] Well, my friend Marko found something good in this marriage, and that's right. A few of the Members and Members who took the floor today also began by looking for the good, and this was well presented here. Of course, we can also show some weakness, but for this there has been a great deal of time both in the committee and in the National Assembly. We have amended the bill with proposals from Members, Members and, of course, interested public, of all those who wanted to participate. Those who are not then say how bad marriage is, and that could not be included in that part. Comrade Marko, look, it's about athletes now. Of course, scientists are also able to receive certain benefits, and in tax reliefs we also have an opportunity for scientists, for culturers and also for top athletes. However, top athletes got lost here somehow, so years ago this proposal came up. The draft of this was created before 2010. From 2010 until recently, we have stood on this proposal or draft, and no one has taken it, no one – no government, no ministry, no parliamentary group, except the proponents – was the Sports Union. We listened to it somehow and started with this proposal, assigned it, processed it and, of course, prepared it for today's third reading. The bridge fund will be set up following the example of mutual pension funds with certain exceptions, which are relevant for a different purpose of fundraising. This is, for example, a shorter period of saving a simple investment policy. Since the bridge fund is designed by the example of mutual pension funds, the law often refers to the application of the law governing pension funds and the law governing investment funds and management companies, since there is no need for already known rules for the operation of the bridge fund to be laid down in this law once again. Unlike pension funds, the law does not provide that the bridge fund should have a specific pension plan and rules of application, since all conditions of operation of the bridge fund and all rights and obligations of the manager and insurers are already prescribed by the law itself, which is the basis for the establishment and operation of the bridge fund. The bridge fund will be managed by the Pension and Disability Insurance Capital Company, which already manages a similar fund of compulsory supplementary pension insurance. Where the beneficiary is because he owns 100 percent of the country and because he is a neutral entity. With regard to the liability of the operator for the obligations and liability of the operator, it is envisaged to apply Article 270 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which provides that the operator is fully responsible for the operation of the bridge fund. From the point of view of control, it is therefore important that Kad is fully responsible for the management of the bridging fund, despite the fact that external operators may be empowered to provide certain services. We did not write in this law who would then be this external contractor, that is to say the market. They wanted the funds to be collected after they had moved to an insurance agency or insurance company, Blue, Triglav, and so forth, perhaps an external insurance company — they wanted to write it down in this law. Individuals wanted this to be written down with their influence, but we didn't want it to be. Thus, in the case of mutual pension funds, the assets of the bridge fund will be completely separated from the manager and other assets in its management and will be exclusively owned by the insurers. In order to ensure additional security of the property of the insured, the law provides for the custodian of the assets of the bridge fund, which can only be a bank with the permission of the Bank of Slovenia. Since it is not a normal financial institution, it is not subject to the same strict operating rules as those entities. For this reason and in order to ensure the maximum professionality of the management of funds, the law requires that when the management of the assets of the bridging fund is authorised by a financial institution subject to the highest standards applicable to the management of foreign assets and, as such, is subject to supervision by the competent institutions. The assets of the bridge fund can thus be managed under a management contract only by a financial institution which has obtained the approval of the Securities Market Agency for this service. When he can choose between banks, stock exchanges and management companies. The manager of the bridge fund will have to take due account of the principles of investment policy, pension fund and the law governing pension and disability insurance when managing the investments of the bridge fund. The master of the bridge fund will have to inform the insurers and the debtors on a regular basis about the operation of the bridge fund. The insured person may request from the bridge fund manager, in cases specified in the law, to pay the redemption value of the assets entered in his personal account. It is envisaged that payment in the light of the fulfilment of certain conditions may be either in the form of a bridging pension or in the form of a one-off payment. Not least, you've already warned yourself about this. Look, the Ministry's already running the register when you said red tape. The Ministry already runs a register of professional athletes. This register already exists, there is no additional bureaucratic intervention or additional task here. This is already being done and, of course, this will not be the last thing we will be able to do. That's according to your comments. Representative of the Government, the Secretary of State said that the government is already encouraging athletes and all other young people to learn. True, they do, we have certain incentives for these purposes, but for top athletes it is an exception. Because of its burden, because of its schedules, i.e. twice a day they have trainings, the games have afternoons, mornings, evenings, usually at a time when other citizens are free, and then the athlete cannot carry out his duties at the educational institution. Therefore, it makes sense to introduce another way of education, that is to say distance education, or an athlete begins education when he terminates a sports career. I'm talking about top athletes, we're not talking about all athletes. Supreme athletes and professional athletes are some exceptions, and since they are exceptions according to their abilities, their results, it is right to give them the opportunity to have exceptions here as well, to have some tax relief when they have those extraordinary incomes, as you have, Comrade Marko, you yourself have found that in a short period of time they can get some greater reward, which at present can be a great burden on taxation, instead of reaching out for a longer period of time. In athletes, this distinction is also made between scientists, cultural workers and other special people, whom we highly appreciate that their time of activity is very limited, precisely because of this presence of consumption. In 10 years of active activity, even if there is no damage, the top athlete spends so much that he can no longer interfere with the superior and so visible results. Of course, if there's an injury, it's so much earlier. Why 30 years? Because you can be an athlete to this fund during this period, you can save some resources that you can then use. If he spends only one year or several months in this fund, of course, these resources will not be sufficient for some normal adaptation in another way of life. We're talking about adjustment. The athletes adapt quickly, of course, but they still need some time, and at the time, they also need some resources to get their lives together so that they can prepare for a new job, so that they can find a new job, so that they can finally be able to get an adequate job for this job. The proposer could wait. Of course, we would have waited or waited if — and I am talking about other comments now — we had at least one basis in our hands that the Ministry was preparing some legislation to draw up another law that would solve this area in an integrated manner. See, already in the resolution of the national sport programme, the applicants have deleted all that was involved in tax reliefs. It's all been erased. If I tell you only from experience that in other countries athletes are exempt from certain taxes and, at higher amounts, this tax is allocated to them for a longer period of time, even for 40 years. Some are exempt from certain duties, and clubs and societies are obliged to put in funds, and athletes can then benefit from certain investments, such as the increase of family members and so on. So these are the solutions they have in individual countries, and we have not done anything about it yet. I am talking about tax reliefs and about the fact that an athlete could put some of the resources into savings that he will benefit in the later period. And that is exactly what the proponents have pointed out and thus wanted to encourage all those who would and who are obliged to prepare such legislation. No government has ever done that before. Of course, it could wait, but do you know how long — while waiting, how long can you wait? So long that a few generations of athletes have gone from sport to another activity. That could happen. When it is said that the state is preparing or that it is able to give employment to top athletes to various ministries, public institutions and so on – yes, of course, but we are talking about top athletes. And these athletes have to prove this every year. They must be subject to performance annually, and once the Olympic Committees of Slovenia grant them status, they can be entitled to this job and then one year after the completed sports career. That could happen. Two years. Thank you. So, two years, then it's over. And at that time, an athlete can save himself some of the resources he then invests or puts into this fund and then benefits them, if necessary. See, the various bodies are elected to the Assembly of the Sports Union by individual athletes, but only those involved in this insurance. He can't just be an athlete. This means from those athletes involved in this insurance, and that's right. This means that they are beneficiaries of these funds, and I do not see any comments here. Solidarity – yes, look, this is about personal insurance. Here is the insurance of every individual athlete who gives funds to himself, from his income to some fund. He can then be solid when he gets this money, or he can't. He can be as solidarity as we all are when we are talking about solidarity. Of course, we expect a comprehensive solution to the problem of athletes and athletes, not only of the top and top professional, but of all. Here, however, the country could go along with some solidarity moment or with some solidarity means, such as for culturers, such as special pensions and, last but not least, for colleagues and colleagues, such as public servants, as the State also provides some funds for us – we speak only for public servants – in Kad, and these funds are not taxed and can then be used by public servants when they retire. But why not give one more moment of solidarity here, and all those who receive or receive these funds would say: this means and half of these funds are given in solidarity for those athletes who are not professional, and for those who have achieved very visible success, they do not have the means to survive. So much for once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u100	Thank you very much. It's a replica. Here you go, Mr. Pavlišič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u101	Thank you for your word. Mr. Kavtičnik, you misunderstood me, so I have to replicate. I said that the purpose, the idea of this law is very good, that they are very good purposes and ideas, but unfortunately we have spoiled them typically Slovenian, by introducing additional bureaucracy, by favouring state and parastatal institutions and by limiting choice. We encounter this very often in this Slovenia, and unfortunately this is also the property of this law. But I'm saying, the purpose and the idea are very good. And in this additional bureaucracy, I would only read the extract in Article 11, which nicely states in the first paragraph: "The Ministry responsible for sport shall establish and maintain a register of insured persons involved in bridge insurance for the purposes of this law." It's beautifully written in "establishment and water", it doesn't say, I don't know, extend the existing register. It says "establish and keep the insurance register," so apparently it's not there yet. With regard to the Fund itself and its management; I agree, there are many references to existing legislation in the law, and that is correct. This is right because we really should not make up some rules for each fund and simply introduce some new things. It's good to get in touch, and so are the rules of management, and we make it as well as we should, security, guardian and so on, but there is no investment policy. And in normal pension funds, investment policy is a matter of an individual fund, and then an individual insurer can choose between different funds with different investment policies. Here, however, it does not have this choice and it is therefore important what the investment policy of this fund is. And that is the difference between where we properly refer to the rest of the legislation, which is simply missing here because there is a different situation, where the insurers can choose which of the funds with different investment policy will enter. That's not the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Now, Mrs. Ludmila Novak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u103	Thank you for your word. There's obviously a problem. We are reminded of this by the unions, and last but not least, the minister on the committee said he was aware of the problems and that the Government would prepare appropriate solutions. I am very sorry that the majority will of Members has been expressed here to adopt a law to resolve a problem, and on the other hand, the Government has not been prepared to listen sufficiently to all the competent ministries to cooperate in improving this law. Here I think that our political misconduct is also a fundamental mistake. We Members are elected by the will of the citizens, we represent their will, their interests, and it is also right to propose some solutions. It is usually the other way around, the government proposes solutions, coalition government Members have to confirm them, but if they agree with them or not, many times they do not. Why wouldn't it be the other way around? When we propose to the Members, I think it is the task of the government, the task of the ministries to approach and seek appropriate solutions. So I'm sorry if the marriage is flawed and incomplete. You could have been better, of course. I don't think it's the best reference to legal and legal work. In this House, I have listened many times to the Law-Legal Service, which has had concerns, many concerns about whether or not the law proposed by the Government has been passed by the coalition voting machine, and the law has been adopted without a doubt. I am not in favour of adopting laws that have such holes that cause additional bureaucracy, but I am in favour of finding that there is a problem, that we are looking for solutions for it. It is also because of the Ministry's representatives that I have little doubt as to whether it is right to confirm this or not in the face of such major shortcomings, but every law can also be amended. So, if so far there has been no agreement among several ministers to resolve this problem, then this is one measure of coercion that will force ministries to improve, supplement, amend, and then find a final solution. I therefore regret that this coordination has not taken place, because this law could be one of the rare laws that the majority of the parliamentary groups can consistently support and thus solve the problems of many professional athletes who undoubtedly deserve our attention because we know that when young people are full of strength and at the height of the glory they have come to work hard, they are all spinning around them, even many who have various merits. But since this time can pass quickly, they find themselves in many troubles. Recently, I heard information that professional footballers are going bankrupt two years after their career ended. I myself know such cases, I also know the case of an athlete who was applauded by all of Slovenia with excellent results, and then we collected or raised funds for his apartment and similar things. Well, there are problems. We're trying, we're trying to save them.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u104	Thank you very much. A number of debaters have checked out. Mr Jožef Kavtičnik signed up for him, Mag. Ivan Vogrin, mag. Leila Hercegovac, Mrs Mateja Pučnik and Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Thank you, colleague Ludmila, but I would still like to say: no, the marriage has not so many shortcomings. It's not true at all. It is true, however, that in its original form, as a proposal, when it came to the National Assembly, it was inter-sectorally inconsistent. As a result, so many comments were made by the Legal and Legislative Service. We wanted the Government to become more actively involved in the drafting of this law alone, but it was already essentially a proposal to exempt this tax burden from these tax reliefs. Then the marriage doesn't apply if that really happened. As far as the law is concerned, we know the law on personal assistance. In December 2012, the government was supposed to prepare this law, as it was said. The law was being prepared, then the government changed, and the next government has not yet prepared this law. But he was three months old. So we do not trust or believe that the government could produce an appropriate law from nothing when it has such concerns about these tax exemptions. It really got me wrong here, and all of us who signed up, that's exactly what it was. However, when we talk about the obligation or non-compulsoryness of all those involved in this bridge insurance or bridge insurance law and the allocation of funds to this fund, it is as follows: none of the professional athletes is necessarily employed in a sports club or society. He can decide that he can also be a solo sports worker, and then he pays himself into this fund or not. It's up to you. We wanted to do this, and this is essentially helping the sports club or sports club because sports society pays less tax on its personal income. For that part of the bridge fund, the gross gross is reduced, and essentially the tax is paid only from that balance. That means something like 20% less, 10 to 20% less. And that's why it's stimulating for clubs and societies to use it. This will attract more athletes of their own kind. We know there used to be 500 professional athletes. Today there are only 200. We know what kind of trouble sports clubs and society are getting into today. That is why this is also one contribution to solving this problem. Other top athletes, who are supposed to be involved themselves, we know how many they are. All of them would be about a thousand. I think that Slovenia and Slovenian athletes and athletes deserve such a law and such obedience to politics to them and to solve their problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Aljuš Pertinac has entered the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u107	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A lot of talk about how long this matrimony has been going on and who's been involved and who's responded and who hasn't responded. Maybe it's right to say that one day it will be clear to the end. This proposal came for the first time as it has now come to the National Assembly, in this procedure, within the mandate of 2004-2008. At the time, the secretary-general didn't even want to talk about it. There are records of that, I don't mean that. He then came back in 2008-2011. And there was a meeting, including at the Ministry of Finance, where it was agreed that, if you want, the bill-makers would complement it, because the position was the same as in the 2004-2008 mandate, so that it would not now look like I was returning any blame to anyone – that the proposed solutions were non-systematic, incomplete and did not provide the effects that the drafters would want. Regrettably, the drafters of the law from 2011 to 2013 did not correct the proposal of the law, but brought it again to the National Assembly. A proposal for a law signed by Members has now been tabled in such a form. It is said that no matter which government it is, no matter which minister it is for finance, it does not matter which minister it is for sport. By now, three governments have found that the solutions proposed are not optimal if you want me to express myself in such a way that it will not be obvious to me that I oppose these solutions. They're not optimal. And see, a law based on tax relief – here I hope you understand me – the Ministry of Education cannot not propose or improve. That makes sense. The Ministry of Education cannot offer tax reliefs, please. The Ministry of Finance does not, for example, set standards and standards in primary schools, to be clear. It doesn't go through, it just doesn't go through. And it is non-systematic that tax relief is introduced in the sport law. However, I do not define what we discussed in the second reading, whether the target group of top athletes in this country is the one that deserves the most in this country's time a reduced tax burden in these circumstances. This is not a matter for the Ministry of Education. The Ministry of Education cannot propose such solutions and they will never be. As regards the register, it should be said that what we have at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport is a display of professional athletes, in which each of us applies. This is not a register as envisaged by this bill. That's not the register. It's a show of professional athletes. We do not know whether all persons who have the status of professional athlete are actually introduced into this application because they are inside under the Sport Act on their own proposal. In short, if this law is to be adopted, it will be necessary to establish a register, as the law provides for a new register. The examination of professional athletes does not guarantee what the marriage proposal requires. See, there has been a very large debate about this law or the bill. But there will be no confusion, in short, no matter which finance minister, no matter which sport minister, no matter which government so far - none of these solutions, as they are, are recognized as being the best. All right, we can take the obvious that they didn't propose to others. Here. But no one's ever supported these before. If you will accept this law by Members and Members, I said, in my view, this means that, of course, the proposal for alternative solutions will be postponed. Makes sense. Because it will have to wait for what will happen to this bill first. The practice so far shows that no government has undertaken these solutions in such a way as to interfere with the tax area. And now I wouldn't count back, but what are the solutions? So no one makes it clear to the law's proponents that purpose is not good or that there is no need to solve the problem. As for the very broad professional support. Look, it's a union, but it's one union, it's not representative, and it's already been mentioned which collective sports industry comes from most members. That is something to think about. In short, those athletes who have low personal incomes will have to pay into this fund if this law is to be adopted under the Mus, as it were said at home. It means that they will have lower incomes during their careers, but at the same time these contributions will not be so high that, after the end of their careers, at least in my opinion, they will be able to have a very high quality life. This is what we are afraid of, and therefore we cannot support the proposed solutions in this form. Why have we not contributed to the better content of the law? I told you why not. We are the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport and cannot contribute to the content of tax reliefs. That's what this is all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u109	Thank you very much. I won't be long. Here I have a record of the meeting of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia – the Association of Sports Unions, which was 3. 4 p.m. in the Grand Hall of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport on Masaryk Road 16, Ljubljana. Almost all representatives of national trade unions attended this meeting – I have signatures here – and representatives of sports associations. I attended this meeting myself, presented the purpose of this law, and after an interesting debate in which the Director of the Directorate for Sport also participated, and praised the excellence of this bill and warned that the fundamental problem was seen in the tax policy, what I have already repeatedly pointed out, everyone has unanimously accepted and confirmed that they agree with this law and that they support it. Three comments were made and all three of us entered in second-reading amendments. So I don't know what else to do. This was discussed by the OKS Executive Committee, OKS, and I sat with the president of the OKS, who agreed that if representatives at this meeting confirmed that the OKS had no objection and that it supported this law. Who, then, is OKS if we talk here and we all somehow advocate that OKS is the largest and most organised civil sport organization? So I do not see any additional need now, except that, at the ministries or in the government, I would suggest that the ministries cooperate better with each other, that what the Ministry of Education proposes can be proposed, but that you, the distinguished Secretary of State, may, I think, propose a suitable solution to the Ministry of Finance and then include this ministry or not. However, the proposal must be. And once the talks begin, when the proposals begin, when the evidence begins, why something is necessary and meaningful, then I am sure that it is also the will to find a way and an appropriate solution. But if we say from the beginning that something can't be done, then we are where we have been for years in this country – that certain bureaucrats in ministries won't let us do something because they say that we can't. And that's a big mistake. And thank God, and I am glad that there have been so many Members and Members in the National Assembly that we have recognized the need and usefulness of this law and have submitted it. I say now that it is not the best, of course not, like many laws in this country, but the foundation and the beginning to make it even better. But he's much better than nothing. I'm sure, as I stand here, that this marriage is much better than it was when nothing happened. And it will be better and it will benefit those athletes we tell them today that they are professional and superior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Alush Pertinac.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u111	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Look, nothing, the order is clear, this National Assembly has, thank God, adopted the National Sports Programme. He's been gone for years. On the basis of the strategy for the development of sport in the Republic of Slovenia, the Law on Sport began to be prepared. The Sports Act is a top law for sports. This is how things are usually resolved systematically, even in other areas. For the law you are considering in the third reading today, I have told you how it came about; many words have already been said about it. I was talking about the support of the government, not the support of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia – Association of Sports Unions. It was true, it was a consultation, and honourable Member Kavtičnik correctly presented also who was there and what they were saying, but not entirely held that everything was what was said at the meeting, that there was still a need to improve this bill contained now in the text. That's not true. The quoted Director of the Directorate for Sport, for example, also said that there is an optional contribution to the fund and that there is a lack of solidarity. Others have already found that these two things are still missing in the proposal – an optional contribution to the fund and a solidarity aspect. They then found, for example, the secretary of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, that according to the current number of professional athletes at first to solve the problem of sportsmen in the collective sports sectors, which also needs to be extended to athletes of other sports. The vice-president of OKS proposed that a categorised athlete should be introduced into the law instead of top athletes and said that the board of athletes supported the law and so on. In short, there are very many of these things, where say those who learn about Slovenian sport, that the proposal still needs to be finalized. But we cannot avoid the basic question, which is repeated over and over again, which is, or through tax incentives, a relief, if you want, with a reduced tax burden, really achieve all of these goals that the proponents and lawmakers want to achieve. I think the basic question is just that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u113	I'd like to answer that. In Article 4, if you look at the third paragraph, we added this. That's exactly what they've been alerting us to at this meeting. For individual athletes and athletes, where we wrote that they are top athletes and athletes who can be employed in a non-professional manner, means that they are employed in ministries or wherever they are, they can be self-employed, and that is what we wrote down. Here we have given the opportunity to all these athletes and athletes, which they have pointed out at this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mr Vogrin has the next word, but I don't see him in the hall. It's Mag's turn. Leila Hercegovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Education and Education! We have before us a law on the bridge insurance of professional athletes, whose name, as the Secretary of State says, has been constantly addressed since 2004 at the Ministry and in the National Assembly. And we always wonder why nothing has been done so far. The administration of ministries is always the same, and all that is proposed, I expect the Ministry to accept as a basis and to do even better on this basis. This marriage — with him personally at first reading — was not satisfying. I didn't support some amendments on the board either. Why? As colleague Pavlišič said, his purpose is very good, and his goal is excellent. But the law is complicated, and therefore it is difficult to expect that it is unilaterally made. I expect the Ministry of Sport and Education, which is the subject of this law, to cooperate with the applicant and to organise it in the form that would be most acceptable, together with the Legislative and Legal Service. I also spoke to representatives of the Ministry after the committee, and I really saw everyone standing on their own shore. This is really the problem with this national council. Regardless of who is proposing the law, I expect this law to be reviewed by the Ministry, whose domain is this law, and to encourage regulation in a better form. That's why we have such completely irregular laws. But this is not the first law to be said to be uncomplicated or excellent. There are very few great laws. I can tell you from my field of health that many laws have already been passed that touch another law whose articles have not been amended. So, as a signatory to this law, my purpose and purpose were good. The amendments fixed what could have been repaired. I will not say that this law is excellent, I will not say that it would not be better to be systemic, but because there is no other law for 10 years, athletes deserve us to adopt this law, although it is not ideal and it is not good.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u116	Thank you very much. The following will be discussed by Matei Pučnik, Jožef Horvat, Jožef Jerovšek, Dragan Bosić and Mag. Majda Potter. Mrs. Colonel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u117	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! I will also support the law on bridge insurance of professional athletes in third reading. I was happy to support him or also to be one of the signatories to this bill. I supported him both in the first and second readings last week, and I think a lot has been said about this law. I myself said in the debate last week that this is one of those positive sports laws that, in fact, also to us as politicians, as representatives of the people sitting here in Parliament, gives us the opportunity to return something to our top athletes and our top sport, and back to all the efforts that athletes are making in their work, even as a thank for the good promotion and the eternal positive promotion with which our Slovenian athletes the name of Slovenia, the Slovenian flag, the Slovenian anthem take to the world. They are also excellent promoters of perseverance and hard work, including healthy lifestyles, and in this spirit I think that our youth should also be brought up. With this law, we allow athletes to better overcome the period when their sports careers will end when they are likely to be able to cope more easily in those difficult, stressful times when they are looking for a new job. True, today it has been repeatedly said that this law does not comprehensively solve the problems of those professional groups that are involved in and encountering fairly short careers, and I am sure that such problems as athletes face are also faced, as we have already heard today, by scientists, by culturers. There's a system solution needed here, but I've said it the last time, and I'll say it again that there's no system solution at this point. They don't have it at the Ministry, and they won't be able to prepare it because that government is saying good-bye. I am sorry that the Secretary of State has been here today with his finger back since 2004, which the government has never had a hearing about this law. But I am happy today that the law, which was written so many years ago by athletes who wanted this law, and the governments did not have a hearing – I am pleased that today we are considering this law when I am sitting here in Parliament. We have shown the will of the Members here, we have shown the desire that this law be prepared and brought about the form that it will be able to live in real life, so I am sorry that the Government and the Ministry have not come up against us Members, that is, the signatories to this law. If there was no will and energy a year ago, I cannot be responsible for this, but it is certainly the Ministry that is responsible for regulating this area. And if the Secretary of State says that it is impossible to do this only in the field of education, because it does not touch tax policy, I understand that too, but we have a government, so we have different ministerial departments that need to coordinate and have to help each other and find the right solution. That is why it seems so much more important to me, also because the government is on its way out, that it is impossible to expect that the next government, whoever will come, will immediately bite into this hard nut, which has apparently been avoided for years and years. I will therefore be very pleased if, at least, we Members, including coalition members, some of us co-signers, remain in the will and energy to the end that this area is yet to be regulated. However, if there are shortcomings in the law and there will certainly be improvements to certain adjustments and also to systemic improvements further, it is said that once the law has been brought to life, it is possible. Nothing's going to be concrete. So I will certainly support the law and also support all the amendments tabled by Mr Kavtičnik as a proposaler. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mr. Aljuš Pertinac also took the floor and then Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u119	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. The essence of the law is Article 4. I hope we agree here. Article 4 has three paragraphs. First paragraph: "Indemnity insurance shall be made compulsory by professional athletes who have a contract of employment with a sports association which is a member of a national sector sports association." Do we understand each other? "Professional athletes who have a contract of employment with a sports society which is a member of the national sector sports union." Professional athletes in the Republic of Slovenia. Second paragraph: "Professional athletes who are not in a working relationship with the sport society referred to in the preceding paragraph may be voluntarily included in the bridge insurance if they acquire the title of a top sportsman in accordance with the law and have permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia, as well as top athletes who have permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia." Here it is worth stressing that you cannot get the title of a top athlete, but that it is awarded by the Olympic Committee of Slovenia – the Association of Sports Unions. See, professional athletes who have a contract of employment with a sports society, which is a member of the national sector sports union in the Republic of Slovenia, not generally, but almost entirely do not have the status of a top athlete. So when we talk about returning to our top athletes what they did to promote the country and so on, we have to ask ourselves who we're going to return to. We will not return anything to those whom we have in mind and who have been given a name in the second reading. We won't return anything because they don't meet the conditions. Whether they are not tax residents or they are not professional athletes who have a contract of employment with a sports company that is a member of a national sector sports association. These are, for example, football players who play for clubs in Slovenia. No football player who plays for a club in Slovenia has the status of a top athlete. None. Those who play abroad do not fulfil the condition are not tax residents. So the representatives, we know, are mostly playing abroad, they're not tax residents, they don't meet the condition. Although they are superior to knowledge and play abroad, they mostly do not have the status of a top athlete. They don't meet the conditions. So who are we gonna give that back to? Tini Maze? We won't. Goran darling? We won't. Angeta Copyitar? We won't. Who are we going to give that back to now, these great achievements for Slovenia and the promotion and so on? Who are we going to be?Oh, my However, all those who have a contract with a sports society and the status of a professional athlete are necessarily included. But you're not the ones we're celebrating and so on, and we've heard that politicians like to paint next to them and so on. And the third paragraph of this article: "Indemnity insurance may also be included voluntarily by athletes who do not engage in sport professionally if, in accordance with the law governing sport, they acquire the title of a top athlete and have a permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia." It's a very narrow group of people, and I just want there to be no misunderstanding and then someone would be disappointed if this marriage were to be adopted, and then we'll listen to how those we really wanted to bring back to them as a country, if you want, or as a nation, are not included because they're not. The ones I've listed aren't in there. Last time I didn't think about judoists in second reading, they did. But I told them what the problem is with them – that they have very low personal incomes during their careers, and from those low personal incomes they will now have to pay into this fund. [[advertising from the hall]] They can be. You're the only one that comes into your head, from the bearers, if you want Olympic medals or medals at the world's biggest competitions, only you, and the rest of you don't, and here's the problem with this marriage. In short, in order not to give anyone the wrong impression of how we will now, I don't know, to those whom we honor as a nation and sports enthusiasts, we return something to achieve what they achieve and promote the country, I agree, and they achieve excellent sporting achievements. Not with this proposal, but with the law. Unless they become tax residents in the Republic of Slovenia, I doubt that the proposed tax reliefs are sufficient motive to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik, please, on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u121	Thank you very much. It's human to be wrong. I believe you've made a mistake knowing the matter so you haven't passed. Yeah, it's for everyone, for Primož Kozmus, for Tina Maze, for everyone who's staying here. For everything is this law, for all the top athletes and athletes who are residents here. I believe that one can be wrong. And for all the hockey players out there, and they're residents. The condition is that residents in the Republic of Slovenia benefit from all ratings, education, health care and so on, and then they also pay all the benefits here. That's it. It must have been a lapsus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Now, indeed, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u123	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representative of the Ministry! It's an emissary law. It's the third reading of the parliamentary law, and I'm kind of noticing that it's some new manners that we've been witnessing to them lately, that somehow the government representatives are attacking the legislative body, the legislator, if you accept what you're doing, what you're doing, it's not going to be possible to do that, and so on. I ask whether this law is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. No, because then a very strong time would be taken prisoner by our quality Legal and Legislative Service. The text of the Third Treatment Act was prepared by the services of this State Assembly. That's why it's probably not as legal or as implementable as it is to say it's in the basket. And it really kind of reminds me of the statements made in the last days of Mrs Alenka Bratušek, who instils the National Assembly and says, look at what he has changed, what the National Assembly has adopted when it adopted the Occupyed Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015. Yes, for God's sake, I have heard in these days that some high-level politicians have no idea how the European Union works. Now I see that some high politicians have no idea how the constitutional order works in the Republic of Slovenia, who is the legislator, who sets up the government. I don't care what happened in history, who rejected the law in 2008, refused to accept it and so on. We are now in the third reading of this law, there is a law being sent, and I will also confirm it this time, so I voted in favour. Sports are really the most effective, if I may say so, or the very effective ambassadors of this country are still very cheap. And it is true that some politicians are very interested in taking pictures with the Copernicus, Tina Maze, with the various jumpers, and now, when something small is done for them, in fact, only by encouraging them to save – this is a special value, I hope today is characteristic of Slovenia – and this is a terrible problem. And today, at the Committee on the Economy's morning session, we have heard from a representative of the Government, which has made me very happy to say that we have good laws, we need to enforce them, and we need to do so in this spirit to find a solution, but not in this way: yes, in that article and in that paragraph, it says that this cannot be done. And then, of course, nothing can be done. We don't need bureaucrats like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u124	Thank you very much. I don't see him in Mr. Joseph Jerovsk's room. So we continue with Mr Dragan Bosic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u125	Thank you. I have listened with interest to the debate, and it is a little crazy that it is quite good spoken of on the one hand and on the other, is said by the proposer and by the Government. But I would have contributed to some of my thinking here. The key thing is Article 4, yes, I agree, Article 4 and Article 2 and paragraph 3. Here are also some illogicalities that are not in my repertoire of perception, in terms of achieving the excellence of athletes who are not actually in the set, in the register – it is very difficult. I'll tell you something from my own experience. When I was first at US Open as a coach, I couldn't get this superiority by national options, but I got it from the U.S.P.T.O. in New York. This is a problem that I consider to be some kind of discriminatory approach to different options or different athletes. The whole range of sports that are not covered by the committee are called young sports industries. Most of them belong to the category of urban sports, for which it will take a long, long time to be classified even if they want to. And I weigh this option through the prisms of these. I said it once, and I'll say it again. I don't see the possibility of finding, by this law, one of Travis Pastran's athletes or Shaun White, not listing the giants of the so-called X Games. In Slovenia, it could be comparable to Hefe, Boris Petkovic. Most of you haven't heard of these people, but neither have they, but they live very well without it. There are no solutions here. The second thing is the solidarity that we talked about, and the State Council has warned, which is also not resolved in this system. The relationship between love and righteousness — marriage is pleasing, just. It is said that this proposal is well liked, and I personally like it, but it is not fair. We were talking about a disaster earlier, but it's like a little man, a little farmer. The question is, how good is he? I told you how acceptable and just I would be. These are the shortcomings that this proposal has not addressed. If it were a possibility, what do I know, 4, 5, 6, or, if I was listening correctly, in 2004, these readings were probably I don't know how many. It's a little unusual to fight the same weapon. Of course, it is the purpose — not the like, but the goal is the good one. That's a good purpose. And also to the question that I asked the Minister, he said that within six months he was obliged to approach the solution to the problem. Unfortunately, I don't know how many of these activities I haven't been tracking or monitoring, but when a person says something in front of the auditorium, he's doing it in some way. But I'd like to point out one more thing before my time runs out, because time is pretty high on taxes. Residents, non-residents and taxes. Together, we should seek a solution based on the principle of one single tax income. Tax is paid in the country in which it is used, both for athletes and for those many cross-border workers, which are largely in Styria and many others. Of course, these amounts that these people deserve are different, but I think they would help athletes and those that I just mentioned. It bothers me, however, to mix sports with politics and that the president of the so-called union, which I do not understand as such, invites fans to vote against SD, DL, DeSUS, I don't know who, because it is one polygon and one manner, which I think is out of place. Besides, I'm not commenting on the unions. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u127	Just a brief replica of my fellow Bosniak. The law does not solve the problem of the criteria for granting status. That makes sense. We can't write that in the law. The law remains that way and the criteria can change, and this changes the Sport Expert Council. The criteria are laid down by the Sport Expert Council on the proposal of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, and I absolutely agree with the need to do so in the field of these criteria. But the law will apply, and once the criteria change, those athletes will also be able to come in. I agree, absolutely, that the matter must be expanded and, of course, the area of sport should be dealt with even more properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Now, Aha, mag. I can't see the Mayan Potion in the hall. [[...]] So we continue with Mrs Alenka Jeraj, who also does not see her in the hall. Jani Möderndorfer is not in the hall either. Joze Tanko's not in the hall either. Mr. Franz Jursha is not in the hall. Mr. Aljoša Jerič is not in the hall. Mr. Andrey Chush, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u129	That was fast. Since, of course, I have also presented the position of the SDS Group and because several arguments have already been put forward by the applicant in the debate, I would not like to repeat myself, but I would like to say in the introduction to this final debate that I have been very disturbed by the fact that some representatives of the failed coalitions have always talked about solidarity. As a young man, I don't know, I'm a little confused now that I'm trying to imagine what solidarity is. We have committed to the rate of EUR million per hour. All of this and interest will be paid by young people in order to maintain the standard we have today and, of course, I would like to ask that we do not talk so much about solidarity. The arguments of the Government's representatives, as well as the opponents of this law, of course, have not convinced me. They're basically repeating themselves over time. On the other hand, a very long, broad, in-depth debate was held. The speaker also presented some of the minutes of these meetings, the professional public said its part, but in the National Assembly we also had a discussion or presentation of opinions on the national sport programme in the Republic of Slovenia. It is true that this material has been sent in the National Assembly and in politics by drawers, electronic addresses for a very long time, and I think it is time to do this. The state of Slovenian sport is always worse and even if we want to compare ourselves with the most developed countries, it would be right to take at least one step further here and our athletes to improve the conditions of life, then also the easier transition after the end of their career. In the final stage, our greatest ambassadors are, we all like to take pictures with them, but when something has to be done, I don't know – a few people are quiet. I have before me an amendment from the SDS Group, which we have tabled on the proposal for a national sport programme. At that time we also obtained data from an international survey that was carried out for several countries and was carried out in the UK, namely, Slovenia's top athletes are heavily taxed. Now, I'm just going to put a little bit on the round number that you can imagine, although I highly doubt that the number of athletes who deserve so much is very high. If in Germany, for example, EUR 100,000 net pays the total cost of the salary is €170,000, in Slovenia the burden is on the same net base, i.e. totalling as €270,000. At the expense of its results, a top athlete can live differently, but usually there by the age of 32, so it is of course important that we allow athletes an environment where they can also spend the earned resources later more useful for self-employment, for the transition to other jobs. You need to know that many athletes, especially the top-notch ones who have now sought employment in various sports societies at local levels, various sports institutions – from the crisis to today, the local communities have been severely stricken by funds for sports programmes in municipalities, both in urban or smaller countries, and the situation there is quite crimson. The National Assembly strongly supported the resolution on the national sport programme. We also supported it in the Slovenian Democratic Party. I have before me this pile of paper, and to this day I have not been informed by the Government of one measure, and we have discussed this at first reading of the law, second reading of the law, third reading. We have also proposed a number of concrete amendments. Although none were adopted, in the end there were some of them that went in the right direction, and we decided that Slovenia should be unitedly supported. And now that I hear here that we're waiting, I don't know, for six months or giving the government time again to prepare the appropriate alternatives – respected, you had time from your performance, and to this day we didn't get anything else in the National Assembly. I am aware that someone has screwed up in the past, or that they have given no appropriate importance to this issue. Of course, he needs to be warned, perhaps exposed, but I believe that the majority will in the National Assembly is that this process is finally completed. Even as a former judoist and a great sports fan and an enthusiast, I often take part in various competitions, as a viewer, so that there will be no confusion, in the local environment, at national level, and when I talk a little with what kind of athletes, some time ago there was also a debate on Twitter, and now by the Sports Union, let them say that legislation is not the most important thing here, it is not. Also a sportsman, a Maribor football player, came from abroad a few months ago to play in Slovenia and was a little lost, but some legislation is here, where you live. That is why I also said that our legislation in the field of sport is like that of a stone age. I am aware that there is still a great deal to be done before Slovenian sport. I myself take the adoption of the law on bridge insurance for professional athletes as an important step towards putting the issue of Slovenian sport on the agenda at all. Of course, I hope that the law will be supported, but, I don't know, after the elections, we will see what the relationship will be in the National Assembly, but I am sure there is still some other legislation that needs to be regulated. We also had the Property Transformation Act of the Loteria Slovenije, where you all said that we needed a system law, and you still wanted some flat-rate solutions to be adopted through and through, until the implementation plan of the national sport programme for 2014 is not that we did not get acquainted with it. So I think you've fallen asleep here a little bit, and the National Assembly has shown you the yellow chart correctly, and it's likely that the adoption of this law will also show you red.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u130	Thank you very much. The representative of the Government, Mr Secretary of State, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u131	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. I'll be very brief. Since the distinguished Member of the Council had not been in the Chamber before, he probably had heard too much; see, the national sport programme has been adopted – when? OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. For what period has been adopted, we also know, so it is clear that not all measures could be implemented within one month, because otherwise it would have been pointless to adopt a national programme for so many years. However, you have heard this part that the action plan is already in the public debate, which runs until 6 June. So you have the opportunity to join the public debate. After June 6th, it will also be discussed by the Professional Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Sport and will then be accepted by the Government. So at least we didn't fall asleep about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u132	Thank you very much. At the end of the debate, the speaker shall have the floor. Here you go, Mr. Kavtičnik, if you like.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u133	Thank you very much for joining the debate today. I am pleased that we have had such a high-quality and substantively good debate in the National Assembly. I expected one or more of these on the committees, but certain Members and Members were not involved. However, allow me to say that the draft law on the bridging insurance of professional athletes pursues the objectives of ensuring transparency and transparency of the system of employment of professional athletes in sports societies, and this is good. It has opened up a system of possibility and establishment of special professional insurance for athletes. It enables professional and top athletes to think about what will happen after the end of their sports career at the time of their greatest achievements. Finally, include a country with tax legislation to enable athletes to pay certain taxes in order to enable athletes to close that tax for a longer period. I am confident that today, by adopting this law, the National Assembly will take a step closer to solving the matter even more systematically than it is now. I thank all those who will vote for this law on behalf of all athletes and athletes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u134	Thank you very much. That is how we concluded the debate on the bill as a whole. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 27 May 2014, published on the e-club. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. I'm guessing he doesn't want to. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. I am putting to the debate Article 27 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. I am putting to the debate Article 34 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. I conclude the debate on this Article. I am putting to the debate Article 39 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia. Would anyone like to discuss it? I find that he does not want to, so I am also concluding this debate. We have thus concluded with a debate on the amendments to be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the meeting's timing. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 66th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 18.10. See you later.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u135	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions, so please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the first item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on the determination of cadastral income under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to amendments adopted in the second reading at the home work body and at the meeting of the National Assembly, the proposal for a law would be inconsistent. Can we make a decision? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u136	Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the amendment of the Cadastrian Income Act, which was, of course, submitted by Members of the SDS, for a simple reason: if these novelties were not there, it would mean that cadastral income for a large majority of agricultural areas, and in particular for apples and other fruits, as well as vineyards and forests, would have increased dramatically for this year, and all farmers would have paid substantial higher income due to the higher found cadastral income. Last year's calculations showed that vineyards in some parts of Slovenia would pay 10 times more income than before due to the 10 times higher cadastral income. The matter is, of course, levelled, both for those who, of course, can and will be able to withstand some expected price of the product, as well as for all other small wine growers or producers who actually process Slovenian landscape and thus contribute to the appearance and partly to the self-sustainment of Slovenia with important agricultural products. The problem is that the cadastral income also increases for those who actually live on land processing and, of course, with such an additional tax cap, we make Slovenian agriculture even less competitive, so we reduce the will to process Slovenian land and, of course, reduce investment and certainty that future generations on Slovenian land will live and process it. How do you expect farmers to invest in the modernisation of orchards, in counter-protection, irrigation and similar measures in such uncertain situations when the government actually prepares solutions to increase cadastral income between 5 and 10 times? How do you expect them to restore the orchards, and of course the orchards will provide optimal hectare yields? I believe that if we want to seriously supply Slovenia with self-sustainment or as much production as possible, if we want agriculture to do well, and if we want to maintain the culture of the Slovenian countryside and not least the population of the Slovenian countryside, then we must also have a bearable tax burden for farmers in these areas. That is why we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party that cadastral income remain at the level of the previous year, which means that no such drastic increase is anticipated. That is why, of course, I hope that you will all support this solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u137	Thank you. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As we announced in the position, the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will support this law because we care about Slovenian agriculture because we care about food production because we understand that agriculture is a very important culture in Slovenia and because we care about family farms and because we believe that the perspective of Slovenian agriculture can be based solely on family farms. We will also support the law because if there were no new law, then, for example, the city's vineyards would have 12.95 times the cadastral income they had before, so almost factor 13, and that's not good. And then we wonder why farmers cut vineyards. We also expect that any government, including this one, of course, that carries out ongoing business, will be able to draw up a reasonable methodology for ensuring cadastral income, a European comparable, European competitive and such that young people can already decide to take over the farm, not actually by 2016 that they do not know what they are getting into. So we support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u139	Thank you, too. Please explain your vote on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, Mr Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u140	Of course, there is nothing more to say than supporting the law on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party at this time. The fact is that we are still aware of the importance of Slovenian agriculture in the Slovenian People's Party. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are pleased to have a more united parliamentary view of the Slovenian countryside and of the Slovenian farmer, at least during this time when the Government is falling apart. However, it is clear that this view should not change after the parliamentary elections when they happen. The fact is that Slovenian rurals and Slovenian farmers were far too burdened, far too burdened in the last year of the government of Alenka Bratušek, when the agricultural burdens increased dramatically. We know that all subsidies will be taken into account in the tax base for income. Then the increase in cadastral income – if we did not consider it today, would have disastrous consequences for Slovenian rurals and farmers. As we know, even under the strong belief of the Slovenian People's Party, it is mandatory to book books for all farmers carrying out agricultural activities and their annual income is more than EUR 7 000 500, in our view unacceptable, and this number should be substantially raised. Thank God the Constitutional Court has abolished the so-called real estate tax. If it were accepted today, I am sure that it would not have to be annulled by the Constitutional Court because it would not have been accepted. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are still aware of the importance of Slovenian rural and Slovenian agriculture, even for the sake of self-sustainment, and in the future we will have to pay much more attention to this. We have talked about this a lot lately, and in the next term we will be able to focus on these very topics, both small economies and entrepreneurship, if we want to survive in this country. For this, the guarantee must be the Slovenian Human Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-27-SDZ6-Izredna-66.ana.u141	Thank you. Can we make a decision? I find that there is no longer any interest in reasoning, so we are moving on to deciding on the law. We're voting. 69 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interrupted 2nd item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Restraint Insurance of Professional athletes in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 27 May 2014. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia to Article 3. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 43 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia to Article 5. Here I must warn you that the amendment is linked to the amendment to Article 34, and if this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 34 will also become irrelevant. Therefore, we decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia to Article 5. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 41 votes in favour, 9 votes in favour. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia to Article 27. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 11. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia to Article 34. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 12. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia to Article 39. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 12. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended this by voting on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that, due to amendments adopted in the second reading at the working body and in the second or third reading at the meeting of the National Assembly, the proposal for a law would not be harmonised. Can we make a decision about the law? We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 19. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, it's on the record a proposal for a decision on the appointment of the Vice-President of the Commission as an agent. The proposal was submitted by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia for consideration. I ask if the representative of the proposer would like a word. [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like the representatives of the parliamentary groups to take the floor? I note that no, so I am concluding the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Do any of the Members and Members want a word? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing Alice Lamp as Vice-President of the Rules of Procedure Commission. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 61 votes against 2. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 66th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you for your cooperation and goodbye!
