ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 22nd session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Irena Tavčar, Mrs Janja Attack, Mr Jakob Presečnik, Mag. Leila Hercegovac by 1:30, mag. Stanko Stepišnik and Mr Marko Pavlisič. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to seven. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a self-health law under the regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of five thousand voters and voters. With regard to this bill, the Health Committee proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor first to the President of the Alenka Jeraj Committee for further explanation of the Committee's proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u2	Good-bye, everybody! At its 7th meeting, on 19 February 2014, the Health Committee considered a proposal for a self-health law submitted by a group of five thousand voters and voters to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption pursuant to Article 88 of the Constitution. On behalf of the applicants, Bogdan Krištofer Meško made an introductory statement to the draft law and stressed that, in order to protect constitutional and human rights against the interests of corporations and the risks of lobbying and corruption, it is imperative to adopt such a legislative solution which allows for a decision on the fundamental inviolability of the human body, the right to personal property and the right to self-medication. The law should allow individuals to decide their own body, treatment and balance of the immune system. The opinion of the Legal and Legal Service was presented by Dr. Only Divac. He stressed what is being judged and what does not belong in the law; he stressed that what is being judged and what is not in the law is an important question to which the Constitution does not give us an accurate answer; however, the rights and obligations of citizens and other persons can be determined only by law. Since the proposed law affects a number of other laws, the Legislative and Legal Service has specifically pointed out the guidance given by the Resolution on Regulatory Action, in order to ensure the transparency of the legal system and to ensure legal certainty in individual laws as little as possible to interfere with other laws. The Government's opinion was presented by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Health, Mrs Brigita Čokl, and stressed that the Government does not support and propose to the National Assembly that it does not accept it. The opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons was presented by the State Council of Mags. Peter Požun stressed that the Commission's proposal for a law, given that it does not bring added value or upgrade rights in terms of increasing the individual's ability to decide on his treatment, does not support. It also assesses that the proposed law would have a certain negative impact on the existing public health care system. A public presentation of the opinions delivered by the Health Committee on Thursday, 13 February 2014 was organised on the proposal of the Coalition's parliamentary groups on the draft Self-Health Act. The debate highlighted the view that the aim of civil society, which has also been able to collect so many signatures, was good, but the fact that the proposal is non-systemic because it is legally inappropriate to interfere with existing legislation which is in line with European rules. In view of the above, the Committee, with 8 votes in favour and no objection, adopted the following decision: The proposal for a self-medical act is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u3	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to the representative of the proposal for a law at the meeting of Mr Jaka Bitenc and ask him to introduce his position on the proposal of the working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The Human Initiative has collected 8,000 800 signatures for the proposed Self-Health Act. Since the conditions for collecting signatures are difficult and even constitutionally controversial, the fact that signatures were almost twice as much as was necessary is a fact. It is important to talk about broad public support for this bill. The bill was stopped by the Ministry of Health. Such a breakdown indicates that not only the conditions for obtaining civil support are constitutionally controversial, but the whole process of human initiative is questionable. It seems that the purpose of the legislator was not the practical feasibility of carrying out a people's initiative for a proposal for a law from signatures to the adoption of a law, but merely a theoretical option that is never realized in practice. If the bill has been criticised by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, this means that, if the purpose of the legislative and legal service in question, the consistent enforcement of the procedure of legislation should be corrected in those points which do not alter the content of the proposal of the law, but not that the law is therefore rejected, since the people should still be involved in the legal expression. For the people are not in the service of the congregation of the State, but the contrary: The congregation of the nations is in the service of the people. The rejection of the bill on self-medication certainly does not shed a positive light on parliamentary procedures and does not give people confidence in the functioning of the National Assembly, which is particularly important in these delicate times. A few impressions have been corrected by the new Minister of Health, Mrs Alenka Trop Skaza, who told the media that vaccination of children will no longer be compulsory and that we will approach the civilized world in this regard. In the human initiative, we hope that it will happen as soon as possible. We can say that in this way she has demonstrated how the honor of the National Assembly can be saved in the eyes of the people. The human initiative is not so focused on the letters and words of the bill, but on its contents and spirit. So if other ways are found to do human will, this will be welcomed by the people’s initiative. However, I must add that this is only one part of the content of the proposed law and that the two essential works are still not fulfilled, for the people have so strongly supported them. The whole bill deals with self-medication, the right to decide on your body in an active and passive sense. So, the right to refuse health care and also the right to cultivate and use medicinal herbs to maintain your health and self-health. As an urgent right to refuse the health care that adults have already been able to do, we want to extend to caregivers, i.e. our children and other incapacitated family members, whom we care about, as Mrs Minister has said, we want the citizens of Slovenia, as demonstrated by the large number of signatures of support, to decide on the health interventions on the animals we care about as our extended family. Let me mention only the case of dogs for which the Veterinary Administration of the Republic of Slovenia requires mandatory vaccination against rabies, although it may be possible to find only one glass fox in a municipality each year, which means that only that municipality is potentially infected and not the whole of Slovenia, but the Veterinary Administration treats Slovenia as a single large municipality and manipulates the illegal service at the expense of the health of our dogs and dog owners. It's a similar bureaucratic dictatorship when it comes to chipping dogs. The Human Initiative has made it clear that such unnecessary animal health interventions due to unhealthy tubes and inconclusive bureaucratic reasons are strongly rejected and we also expect the competent ministry to take appropriate action in this area. Similarly, we expect small adjustments to existing legislation to meet the demands of the people's initiative on the right to grow and use herbs for their own needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u5	Thank you, too. Presentation of the Government's position on the proposal of the mother labour body will be submitted by the Minister of Health, Dr Alenka Trop Skaza.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u6	Your Honor, thank you for saying so! The proposal for a self-medication law very vaguely defines what self-medication is and does not contain criteria, conditions, duties, obligations, responsibilities and criminal provisions related to self-medication. In addition to self-medication, the issue of personal inviolability and the right to personal property and interference with the Animal Protection Act and the Regulation on measures to identify, prevent and suppress rabies. It states the individual’s right to decide which medicinal product or medicinal plants he/she will treat and to decide for himself how to treat. It also mentions restrictions on the rights to such self-medication and the right to grow and own any plant for the purposes of self-medication, the right to manufacture preparations from such plants for the purposes of self-medication, the right to exchange seeds and so on. Specifies the right to refuse the medicine and treatment, lays down the right to treatment at home and lays down restrictions on freedom of movement, provides that the responsibility for self-medication shall be borne by each or her guardian and repeals certain provisions of the Law on Infectious Diseases and the previously cited Regulation on measures to prevent rabies. The proposal for a self-medication law in relation to the above-mentioned areas or indents interferes with the areas already regulated and concluded in the field of health, medicines, patient rights and so on. So it interferes with the field of seven laws: the Health Act, the Medical Service Act, the Medicinal Products Act, the Health and Health Insurance Act, the Patients' Rights Act, the Infectious Diseases Act and the Animal Protection Act. With these actions, non-critical and above all legal non-systemic interference in regulated and closed substantive areas. Here, for illustration, I would like to make more precise reference to the other areas of the proposal for a self-medication law. Sections 5 and 6 of the Self - Health Act affect the content already regulated in a comprehensive manner by the Patients’ Rights Act. The Law on Patient Rights provides in Article 26 for the right to consent to health care and in Article 30 for the right to refuse health care. With these articles, each patient has the right to decide on his or her own treatment, and the treatment includes all interventions or health services such as prescriptions and medications, while the patient may also refuse medical treatment or medical care. Article 20 of the Act provides for the right of the patient to information and an explanatory duty to exercise the right to self-determination of treatment and the right to participate in the treatment process. The Law on Patient Rights in Article 21 provides for the right to active participation of the patient in the choice of treatment. The Act also interferes with the Medicinal Products Act; Article 4 of the Self-Health Act interferes with the field of medicines already regulated by the European Directive and is already referred to as the Medicinal Products Act at national level. In the section cited above, the proposal for a self-medication law sets out definitions that are very lacking, for example, the definition of the medicinal product is completely inconsistent with the definition of the medicinal product as defined in that Directive and, of course, our national law. Article 10 of the proposal for a self-medication law interferes with the area of the Infectious Diseases Act. The Ministry of Health has already proposed amendments to the Law on Infectious Diseases in the 2014 Information Programme of the Government, namely in those articles relating to vaccination, in a way that will ensure a high degree of population severing, which is the most important public health measure to protect or protect against communicable diseases in the future. At the same time, it will offer the possibility of suspension of vaccination for non-medical reasons, and it is therefore unnecessary and non-systematic for vaccination to be regulated by the proposed Self-Health Act. In view of all of the above, I believe that the proposal for a self-medication law is non-systematic and legally inadequate and does not interfere with the legislation already in force, in the laws cited, which are in line with the rules of the European Union. Nor does the proposal of this law constitute a higher level of public health protection and also does not have a positive public financial impact.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u7	Thank you. Kristina Valenčič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u8	Thank you for your words, Madam President, Minister with a colleague, colleague and colleague! The Hemp Act and the Self-Healing Act are a marriage twin who has been drafted and supported by people and also received civil society representatives. Since they are related to each other, we will give a unified view of them on behalf of the National Gazette. The law before us cannot be supported in the Civil War. Not because they would not agree with their purpose and purpose, but because they were found unfit by the competent committee for further consideration. The aim of the applicants was certainly good, but there are certain standards, rules and legalities that cannot be avoided when adopting legislation, and these rules have stopped the laws on their way through the legislative process. But something has become completely clear in the last month. Politicians can no longer wave their left hand and turn away when citizens make it absolutely clear to us that the current regime in the field of cannabis and self-medication is not appropriate. Five thousand signatures and a public debate in the National Assembly clearly show that the dark ones have matured to be prepared for professional and serious treatment. We don't close our eyes in the Civil Gazette. Marijuana is used and abused. We are aware that there is a legitimate need in our society to standardise and legalise cannabis. By properly regulating this area, we could ensure better awareness of the harmful effects of cannabis, at the same time reducing its accessibility to minors, reducing the costs of prosecution of marijuana-related crime, taking away the source of income from criminal associations and achieving other positive effects. At the same time, we are also aware in the National Gazette that cannabis, like alcohol and tobacco products, is a drug and, as such, has important negative effects, which legislation must also take due account of. The first, indeed a small step in the desired direction, can happen very quickly by amending the Regulation on the Classification of Prohibited Drugs, which can be done by the Government itself without a long-term legal procedure and thus make life easier for many. I thank the applicants and the signatories of the petition for the work they have done and for the efforts they have made to prepare the law. The hours invested were by no means in vain. Today it is clear from your efforts that the themes that you and the other more than 5,000 supporters have brought before us, Members, are no longer marginal and negligible. Because of your efforts, the subjects covered by the law were placed on a higher level of social bargaining, and I am confident that soon the day will come when these two subjects will no longer be afraid of an inciting taboo. As I said at the outset, we agree in the National Gazette that the law is not suitable for further consideration. However, we support an integrated and reasonable debate on the laws presented, which in due course should lead to modern legal solutions based on liberal principles and reason, but not on the fear of changes so characteristic of our society. You know, there's fear inside the stalls, but there's nothing out there.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u9	Thank you. Ms Jasmina Opec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u10	Thank you so much for the word and a nice hello to you all! It is more rare to consider any draft law in the National Assembly on the proposal of a group of voters. Today we have two on the table; the first is the bill on self-medication. Despite the fact that the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has warned us that the law is not in line with the Slovenian legal order and that the law is being infringed on many other laws in this area, which makes it impossible for us to support this law in the Slovenian People's Party, we would nevertheless point to the facts that seem important to us when we consider this topic. It is certainly in line with the proposalers' claim that man has already tried to help himself through history, through the advice of experienced people, and that the effectiveness of treatment with official pharmaceuticals is highly dependent on the patient’s cooperation. We can also calmly support claims that in both Slovenia and the world, self-medication is gaining weight in order to increase the use of local pharmacy, herbs or medicinal plants, as some studies also confirm. The reason for this, in our view, is no longer, and we cannot, at last, overlook the deteriorating financial situation of the health register. We cannot go beyond the fact that the Slovenian market is being treated without prescription and alternative forms of treatment without serious regulation and necessary supervision and that this area needs certain changes. In particular, taking into account the results of the 2009 survey carried out by Maribor Medical College, 72% of people use self-medical treatment. There is therefore a need for serious consideration of how to link official and complementary medicine as effectively as possible in order to maximize the benefit for the patient, and for the individual to decide how to treat himself. The proposal states that the self-medication law also protects constitutional and human rights against corporate interests and the risks of lobbying and corruption, which we could also agree on. In the Slovenian People's Party, although the law has not received sufficient support on the labour market, we welcome the intention of the proposer, who, with both laws on self-medication and cannabis, opened up to the public an interesting topic and encouraged public debate on the important health elements that we need to regulate with all due care in the future for the greatest benefit of all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u11	Thank you, too. Mr Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, President. A respected minister with a co-worker, a respected colleague and colleague! We have before us the first of today's two laws to be tabled by 5,000 voters, namely the bill on self-medication. Let me congratulate the good organisation of the two law-makers at this point, since this is a very rare case for the proposal to be submitted in this way. According to our assessment, both this law and the Hemp Law proposal for a very topical content, which many citizens and citizens believe should be regulated. Even in the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, we believe that these are current matters, but unfortunately, according to our assessment, neither the first nor the second law were adequately prepared. We will therefore support the conclusion that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. The Government and the legislature also pointed out that the bill was not adequately prepared and that it was too much of an intervention in other legislation. In its opinion, the Government also noted the same as the Law-Legal Service, namely that the proposed Law on Self-Health interferes with the areas governed by the following regulations: Health Act, Health Act, Law on Medical Services, Law on Patient Rights, Law on Medicinal Products, Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, Law on Infectious Diseases and Law on the Protection of Animals with the Regulations on Measures for the Identification, Prevention and Suppression of rabies. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we agree with the Government's conclusion that the provisions of the legislation in force do not restrict human rights in the field under consideration, as the drafter of the Self-Health Act wrongly states. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia we understand the well-intention of the proposer, but unfortunately we join the Government's opinion that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u13	Thank you, too. Mr. Darko Jazbec. Don't you? I'm sorry. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u14	Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and fellow Members! The proposal for a self-medication law submitted to the National Assembly by a group of five thousand voters and voters is modest in substance. The bill consists of only 11 members who want to regulate the right to self-medication, which would allow individuals to decide for themselves their own body and treatment, including by cultivating medicinal herbs for their own self-medical needs. The New Slovenia Group has accepted a representative of the applicants and a public presentation of the opinions on the proposal has also been made. In New Slovenia, we believe that man is called for freedom and self-determination. Only free and responsible actions make it possible for an individual to develop his or her personality and mean self-realisation, which is not based on the exploitation of others. Freedom in the community can only be achieved under the assumption of responsibility for others. When we demand freedom for ourselves, we must recognize freedom for others, which is why the concept of self-medication is necessarily linked not only to an individual's awareness of the value of care for his own health, but also to the impact of individual decisions on public health, especially in the work of communicable diseases that have an important impact on the health of other people. Human health means the highest or most important value. As a society and as individuals, we are subjected to daily dangers and changes that physically and psychologically burden us. We are concerned about health, employment, climate change, the economic and social future, road safety. Our basic goal is to live in a permanent healthy and secure society. Health, therefore, is a great value for which each individual is responsible first. For us in New Slovenia, health is not only about patients and doctors, but it is one of the key social and political issues. Existing legislation already allows treatment with certain alternative treatment methods and traditional cultivation of medicinal plants is not prohibited in us. In the New Slovenia Group, we do not support the bill because we believe that it is a non-systemic solution, non-constant intervention already in existing legislation. It also does not include the responsibility of an individual in self-medication, nor does it involve those who would give them the products produced and could be reflected in the negative public health consequences.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr Darko Jazbec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u16	Dear Presidents, colleagues, colleagues and others present! The proposal for a self-medication law has put more than 5,000 voters and voters into the parliamentary procedure. It has already been said at a meeting of the Health Committee that this is the number of people who should be taken seriously as a legislative body. Self-medication is an area that people have known for thousands of years, we all use it, so it is not always necessary to change new legislation, but we should follow all the positive examples that can help us in this area and with which we can make progress, build our health, and not least, our responsibility in our own care for better health and better quality of life. While the matter discussed at the Committee meeting was welcome, we could have heard quite a few different views and opinions both from the point of view of representatives of health service providers, other professionals and proposers, and we should all have a common interest in working together as partners in this area. What am I trying to say? We are all equally and equally responsible, there is no doubt that trust, respect for the agreement and, of course, taking on responsibility is required on this line. That is why the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, in the field of patient rights governed by a specific law, has repeatedly stressed the need for responsibilities or responsibilities that we have to ourselves or to our health in addition to rights. The emphasis of the bill is on ensuring personal inviolability and the right to self-medication. Article 8 provides that the responsibility for self-medication shall be borne by each person. Yes, also, let's say alcoholism is claimed to be their responsibility, but we know that the consequences of both the health system and society as a whole are being addressed. In Positive Slovenia, we are aware that individual freedom is the highest set of fundamental values and justice, but must not interfere with the freedom of another and must be balanced with responsibility. With regard to the right to free vaccination in Positive Slovenia, we are committed to amending legislation in this area so that it is more consistent with the national legislation of other European Union countries. The right to refuse a medicinal product or treatment procedure is too broad in this proposal. It is also worth mentioning that the draft law interferes with 7 other laws and that the Legislative and Legal Service has commented on almost all articles. This proposal also implies a reverse direction from the newly adopted Medicinal Products Act, which increases safety and reduces risk. It is certainly necessary to leave the users of health services free of charge in the decisions they make for their health, but we must not ignore all the guidelines and legal bases that have been adopted to ensure that our society is healthy, that our lives are of quality. Therefore, from the point of view of preparing the contents of the draft self-medication law, which ignores responsibility to the full, we cannot support it. Also on the basis of the opinion of the competent ministry, the Legislative and Legal Service, the Council of State, the professional institutions of the Group of Positive Slovenia, we support the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration. However, we support the proposalers' initiative to discuss this subject, as this is also how people come up with additional information and guidelines that are being developed in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u17	Thank you, too. Mag. Mr Tisel will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u18	Good-bye to all of you. Dear Mr President of the National Assembly, Madam Minister with co-worker, Member of Parliament and Members! The proposal for a self-medication law was prepared by the Slovenian Hemp Club and put it into parliamentary procedure with 5,000 voters' signatures. Proposers certainly aim to facilitate access to self-medication and alternative treatment procedures for the widest possible range of people. Surely there is a need for people to do more for their health. Prevention, healthy diet, restriction of harmful behaviors, adequate physical activity and concern for psychosocial stability are important. If people had done more for their health when the disease had not yet occurred, they would have been healthier and the cost of treatment would have been more bearable. The Health Care Act lays down the conditions for the profession of physician, the supervision of the work of physicians, allowing individuals to be treated more qualitatively and safely in the event of alternative treatments. Access to tea and tea mixtures from medicinal plants is not limited, there is no prohibition on the cultivation of medicinal plants used in traditional medicine in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The problem can be in confidence when patients do not tell their doctor what to do with them. Doctors in Slovenia also often lack knowledge of alternative treatment methods and procedures, which is why they advise or even prevent their patients. Some doctors know and recognize traditional treatment methods and can only help with their medical knowledge. Sometimes we can't get rid of the feeling that pharmaceutical lobbies are deliberately blocking alternative methods. Some doctors sit on them and others get deeper into the problems and needs of a patient who needs a nice word, a conversation, and advice many times. This is a holistic, holistic approach to human treatment. Homeopathy in Slovenia is not prohibited, but a doctor with a license must not exercise it, otherwise he loses his license. In neighbouring countries, a homeopathic healer cannot carry out an activity if he does not have a doctor's degree. Your doctor and medicines are only to help you: treat God or nature. The old proverb says: “Medicus curat, nature sanat – doctor heals and nature heals.” The proposal for a self-medication law also raises the issue of compulsory vaccination against communicable diseases. As long as the majority of the population is stricken, there can't be an epidemic. However, the epidemic is already occurring in countries where preventive vaccination of children is no longer compulsory. There must be a human approach in this area. If there are contraindications or other obstacles, an exception shall be taken into account. These may be in a few percent and the grafting should be around 85% to avoid epidemics. The proposal for a Self-Health Act interferes with the scope of a number of laws governing individual areas. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we consider that the law in this form is not necessary, but it is worth considering the good solutions to individual problems and taking them into account when amending laws further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u19	Thank you, too. Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u20	Dear Mr President, Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! The bill on self-medication is one of the three laws introduced in the package by civil society in the parliamentary procedure. Let me begin by stressing that the Social Democrats welcome and support the active role of civil society organisations and individuals in proposing legislation. The introduction of a bill with 5,000 signatures of electorates and voters does not happen very often, quite the opposite! However, in the case of these three laws, many more signatures have been collected than is necessary, indicating the current nature of the problem and the desire of people to participate in decision-making processes. The bill covers only 11 articles and provides for the right of an individual to self-medicate to decide how to treat and how to treat a medicinal product or medicinal plants. It further regulates the right to refuse the medicine and treatment and the right to treatment at home. It determines that the responsibility for self-medication is borne by everyone. The draft law also repeals certain provisions of the Law on Infectious Diseases and the relevant regulation with a view to free decision-making on vaccination. The Legislative and Legal Service has drawn up a comprehensive opinion on the proposal for a law indicating a number of legal, substantive, nomological shortcomings in the bill. Important concerns have also been raised by the relevant Ministry and the Health Committee has therefore adopted that the law is not suitable for further consideration, which is why we agree in the Group of Social Democrats. However, since he has raised many substantive and important questions, I would like to touch them further. Social Democrats believe that the bill sets an important milestone in thinking about how to treat Slovenia, as it has proposed some alternative treatment methods and set limits on responsibility and supervision in this regard. Since health is truly our greatest wealth, we are prepared to deal with the disease in a variety of ways, only to help. Therefore, in practice, patients in addition to official medicine are increasingly using multiple alternative treatments that are not sufficiently familiar with their lying doctors, which may have a negative impact on the effectiveness of official treatment. Social Democrats are therefore of the view that knowledge in alternative or traditional treatments, as well as in the field of herbalism, should also be included in the process of education of healthcare professionals and later qualified persons. Official treatment should take into account all the factors that may affect the final outcome of treatment, and these are not only officially recognised medical procedures. The need for vaccination is also an important issue raised by the bill. In the public, more and more zealous opponents of vaccination are emerging, relying on information circulating on the world's web. In the SD Group, we believe that, above all, the professional public should be the ones who should clearly and clearly state the reasons for vaccination and any potential risks arising from it. Mr Gantar, former Minister of Health, announced that in preparation for the amendment of the Law on Infectious Diseases, which will maintain high immunisation, it has also allowed the rejection of vaccination for non-medical reasons. As we have heard, such thinking is also supported by the new Minister. However, this raises a shadow of doubt and the question of whether, in the face of the growing trend of opposition to vaccination in the future, it will be possible to ensure sufficient high grafting and how we will face the possible consequences of the resurgence of already eradicated diseases. Social Democrats The bill on self-health, as has already been said, will not be undermined, but we support further broader debate and reflection on all the substantive problems that have been raised by the debate on the bill tabled by voters and voters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u21	Thank you, too. This has ended with the relocation of the positions of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided on Thursday, 6 in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. 3. 2014, in the context of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, that's a second defensively proposed law on cannabis within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 5,000 voters and voters. With regard to this bill, the Health Committee proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor first to the President of the Alenka Jeraj Committee for further explanation of the Committee's proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello again. The Health Committee shall meet at its 7th meeting, on 19. 2. Consider the proposal for a hemp law submitted by a group of 5,000 voters and voters to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption pursuant to Article 88 of the Constitution. On behalf of the applicants, Bogdan Christopher Meško made an introductory statement to the draft law, stressing that the drug sector is covered by three ministries, namely health, agriculture and space, and internal affairs. The key objective of the bill is to harmonise Slovenian legislation on hemp with similar guidelines under international agreements, to combat illicit drug trafficking and the related black market, to change the approach to ecology and to rehabilitate adult users for medicinal purposes of cannabis use. The positive consequences of the law will be to alleviate a wide range of health problems, to the benefit of state-owned exports, to reduce the burden of doctors and indirectly the police and the judiciary. He stressed that the use of cannabis is increasing, especially in the elderly population. In Slovenia, about 150,000 regular cannabis users are expected and at least 10,000 patients are being treated with it or its products. In doing so, hemp and its preparations are forced to purchase on the black market where prices are high. According to the applicants, the problem of cannabis should be addressed in its entirety not only as a medical use but also as a use for recreational and industrial purposes. The Government's opinion was presented by the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Health, Mrs Brigita Chokl, and stressed that the proposed law does not regulate the use of hemp for medical and industrial purposes in a comprehensive and balanced manner, but even increases the various health risks. Therefore, the Government does not support the bill and proposes to the National Assembly not to adopt it. The opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons was presented by State Councillor Peter Požun and stressed that the Commission supports the efforts of the proposers to systematically regulate the scope of cannabis for various purposes, in particular in the context of opening a wider professional debate on possible solutions. At the proposal of the Coalition's parliamentary groups, a public presentation of the opinions delivered by the Health Committee on Thursday was organised on the bill. 2. In the debate, members of the Committee stressed that the public presentation of opinions on the proposal for a hemp law highlighted a number of aspects of this area. The use of cannabis for medical purposes is only one aspect of use, and it is still important to use it for agricultural, industrial and recreational purposes. If we define drugs as substances that change consciousness and feelings, we separate between illicit and legal drugs and between regulated and commercial drugs. The first is prohibition and the black market, the second is medical and regulated by health regulations, the pharmaceutical market and industry, the third is purely commercial – alcohol, tobacco, coffee – and are sold free. The members of the Committee agreed that the Ministry of Health has not paid excessive attention to this area in the last period. The proposal made by the members of the committee, with which the representatives of the Ministry also agreed, was therefore for the Ministry, together with experts and civil society, to approach the amendment of the Regulation on the classification of illicit drugs. In view of the above, the Committee, by nine votes in favour and none against, adopted the following decision: The proposal for a hemp law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of the debate, the Committee drew up and adopted two other conclusions: First. The Health Committee proposes that the Ministry of Health, in cooperation with the professional public and civil society, consider the possibility of a more appropriate legal and sub-legislatively reasoned regime for the use of cannabis for medical purposes. It is therefore proposed to amend the Regulation on the classification of illicit drugs. And a second time. The Health Committee proposes that, within the framework of the Commission on Drugs at the Ministry of Health and in cooperation with the professional public and civil society, the possibility of using cannabis for other purposes be considered.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u23	Thank you. I also give the floor to the representative of the drafters of the bill to Mr Jaka Bitenc for an introductory presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Say good-bye again! The Ministry of Health therefore rejected the proposal for the Hemp Act and proposed only the legalisation of hemp for medical purposes, meaning in fact the monopoly of the pharmaceutical industry over hemp. The human initiative with such a relationship is not satisfied. At the presentation of opinions and at the meeting of the Health Committee, it was clear that the Ministry of Health was not receiving scientific conclusions from around the world and was stalling in an area where this should not be done. Every delay in health and life is a completely wrong and unjustifiable strategy. The Ministry of Health said that it is not necessary to adopt new laws to amend the Hemp Statute, but that the solution can only be much simpler. Its movement from the first group of illicit drugs to the second group is sufficient. We can agree that the solution is simple, but certainly moving from the first group of illicit drugs to the second group is not a solution. According to scientific criteria, cannabis should not be included in the list of illicit drugs at all, as it does not cause any more health risks than many other herbs that are included in the list of traditional medicinal herbs. According to scientific knowledge, hemp should therefore simply be deleted from the list of illicit drugs and listed on the list of traditional herbs with medicinal effect. At the same time, it is also necessary to delete hemp from the Regulation on the conditions for cultivation of poppy and hemp. Such a change is very simple but effective. Let me mention the improvement in public health, as citizens will be able to grow their own medicine for their many diseases. Let me also mention the facilitation of agriculture, as farmers of all kinds of hemp for a variety of purposes will no longer unnecessarily hinder bureaucratic restrictions. Last but not least, I should mention the promotion of ecology, since both hemp production and organic hemp products are environmentally sound. Each new hemp field means a decisive shift towards maintaining a healthy environment. The removal of hemp from the list of illicit drugs and its entry into the register of traditional medicinal herbs therefore saves several content sets of the People's Hemp Bill. Only important area remains, i.e. the sale of medicinal hemp. The regulation of this area effectively addresses three other important issues. In fact, it removes the black market, accelerates tourism and helps to fill the budget with hemp. For these purposes, a Regulation on the sale of hemp should be adopted which can be modelled on some parts of our proposal for a hemp law. This could also prevent the use of hemp by young people. This will solve in the simplest way all the substantive issues concerning our proposal. The proposal for a hemp law has supported more than 11,000 citizens. Given the difficult conditions for collecting signatures, this is a huge support for the content of the bill. This is also confirmed by recent media polls, in the RTV Slovenia survey, the proposed Hemp Act has supported as much as 95% of voters, which is the absolute record of all time. Also in the Dela survey, the legalisation of cannabis in this way, as proposed by the people's initiative, has supported four times more people than just for legalisation for medical purposes, as proposed by the Ministry of Health. The number of opponents of legalisation is less than 5%. Let us repeat the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has entrusted citizens with a little less than EUR 15 000 per head, which means that we could repay our debt if citizens could process five kilograms of medical hemp for export. This is possible in one season or the next, whatever. In the People's Initiative, we believe that these concrete solutions do not have the right to refuse anyone who does not propose a concrete, more efficient and faster way of repaying government debts. The Human Initiative has drawn up its requirements in accordance with legislation, i.e. in the form of a proposal for a law. However, all of this is not so much about the adoption of laws in the public initiative as it is about the regulation of the substantive issues of these proposals. In line with the great support enjoyed by our public people's initiative, we expect all substantive issues to be adequately addressed at the state level as soon as possible. Otherwise, we will consider that the state of mature examination in the area of institutions provided for direct democracy has not done so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u25	Thank you, too. Presentation of the Government's position on the proposal of the mother labour body will be made by Dr. Alenka Trop Skaza, Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u26	Hello again. Thank you for your word. The proposal for a hemp law addresses the areas of cultivation, production, processing and various other aspects relating to transport or to the cultivation of this plant. It defines hemp as a single plant which is used for industrial or health purposes in its versions and is classified for this purpose as common hemp intended for industry and medicinal hemp intended for treatment. In the case of hemp intended for self-medication, no restriction shall be imposed except for an annual quantity of hemp per person, or more, where health indications so require. It also regulates the Community cultivation and use of hemp for self-medication, providing that the surplus quantities of hemp would be purchased and taken over by the newly established public Hemp Agency and also determine the content or content of tetrahydrocanabinol in industrial hemp, up to 5 %. For industrial hemp, the bill sets THC up to 5%, which is contrary to the EU regulation on direct payments to farmers based on support schemes under the common agricultural policy. This provides that THC content shall not exceed 0,2 %. The adoption of such a provision would constitute a breach of the common agricultural policy on hemp and related direct payments, since hemp containing more than 0,2 % tetrahydrocannabinol is not eligible for payments from European Union funds. The proposal for a law also provides for the establishment of a new public hemp agency with a number of competences. The applicants state that with the transition of employees from the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment and the Ministry of the Interior to this newly established agency there would be no additional costs for employment, but that the transition of officials would mean the discharge of current posts in these competent ministries dealing with the legal tasks in the field of drugs. The establishment of new agencies by hiring new staff during a major public financial crisis is also not a suitable measure. Given that the draft law does not specifically mention resources that would enable the work of the Agency to begin, this will be the responsibility of the Republic of Slovenia as the founder, since the law governing the public agencies provides that the founder must also provide funds and equipment for the start of work. The bill also vaguely defines the definition of self-medication as already mentioned in the previous presentation. It also does not contain criteria, conditions and obligations related to self-medication. We cannot agree with the proposaler's explanation that self-medication does not require adequate self-medication arrangements. The proposed regime of self-medication indicates that this is a matter for the full legalization of the cultivation and use of cannabis, since it is up to an individual to decide what self-medication means. In addition to producing a permissible annual quantity of hemp, which amounts to a thousand grams per person or more, if medical indications so require, he does not speak. In doing so, the Public Hemp Agency is even tasked with buying up excess quantities of hemp at the time of self-medication within 4 months of harvesting. The data also show that Slovenian adolescents are more at risk than European Union peers due to the use of cannabis and that the promotion of cannabis as a completely harmless or medicinal plant, in particular among young people, may have additional negative consequences. According to the National Institute for Public Health, the number of people seeking medical assistance for cannabis use is increasing from year to year, particularly in the younger than 24 years. Scientific evidence also indicates a number of health risks due to cannabis use, from mental illness, which graduated from depression to psychosis, increased risk of cardiovascular disease, increased risk of respiratory disease, which is also noted by the profession. There is also sufficient verifiable evidence in professional literature to confirm the possibility of dependence on hemp and to point out an increased risk of traffic due to hemp-induced driving, while we do not have verifiable or professionally substantiated data on national data in Slovenia. The draft law was also discussed by the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which unanimously considered that the text of the law was inappropriate and contained indications of hemp medicine, which are not technically supported and raise doubts about the existing treatments, that cannabis in medicine is already in use in some countries, but the area is completely different, and that the use of hemp for industrial purposes in Slovenia is properly regulated. The bill does not regulate the use of hemp for medical and industrial purposes in a comprehensive and balanced manner. The use of hemp for medical purposes is easier to regulate with changes and additions to the Regulation on the classification of illicit drugs, namely, hemp substances suitable for medical use from the first group of illicit drugs in the Regulation would be moved to another group in which the prohibited substances can be used for medical purposes. In this way there would be no obstacles to the use of cannabis in medicine, of course under medical supervision.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u27	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ms Jasmina Opec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u28	Thank you for saying that again. Your Honor! After the bill on self-medication has already been examined, there is another law before us, which has been introduced by the signatures of the electorate. Nor did this one receive the support of Members on the labour market, so the proposal for a hemp law at this meeting will conclude its legislative path. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that this law should also welcome the intention of the proposer to speak publicly about this medicinal plant in Slovenia and to remove certain taboos and, on the other hand, to disclose the facts related to its use. In other words, they may argue that the proposed legislation does not regulate cannabis for medical and industrial purposes in a comprehensive and balanced manner, but it is also true that in our country, as soon as possible, we will have to listen to people's wishes, acknowledge the reality, and take some positive solutions when we think seriously about the advantages and weaknesses of deregulation in this area. In doing so, of course, it is necessary to distinguish between the two types of hemp whose use has significantly different consequences. While industrial hemp has few negative properties and, in our view, it would be reasonable to consider the complete release of its production and use, with regard to medicinal hemp, we believe that its production should continue to be monitored as health risks are significant in its use. However, in the Slovenian People's Party we are convinced that the positive effect of cannabinoids on treatment should be examined and, in the context of the findings, they should also be allowed to be used for medical purposes and under close medical supervision. It is also impossible to overlook the fact that, according to some estimates in Slovenia, some 150,000 people use hemp, including thousands of people who use it as a medicine, and that certain interventions into legislation are absolutely necessary from the point of view of market management as well as health risks. I therefore expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Health to carefully examine the results of the research carried out so far and, having regard to the discussions at the public hearing, to consider the possibility of amending the legislation in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u29	Thank you, too. Mr Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Madam President. A respected minister with a co-worker, a respected colleague and colleague! In the DeSUS Group, we will support the conclusion that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. The proposed law deals only in part with the medical use of cannabis, contrary to the current legislation in the field of medicines. If cannabis products in Slovenia were to be marketed and were therefore available in the Republic of Slovenia, whether such a medicinal product would be financed from public funds would be decided by the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance in the prescribed product classification procedure for the lists following the prior determination of the maximum permitted price of the medicinal product by the Public Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices. This would only allow the use of hemp products under medical supervision, in accordance with the applicable rules in the field of medicinal products and on the basis of the professionally harmonised guidelines for their prescription prepared by the medical profession. The bill also vaguely defines self-medication, nor does it contain criteria, conditions, obligations and criminal provisions relating to self-medication. Even in the DeSUS Group, we cannot agree with the proposaler's explanation that self-medication does not require proper regulation of the status of self-medication. The proposed regime of self-medication indicates that it is some kind of legalization of cultivation and the use of hemp, but it is up to an individual to decide what self-medication means. In doing so, the public agency for hemp, which is also proposed by this law, has the task of even buying up excess quantities of hemp from self-medical workers within four months of harvesting. Let me stay with the agency for a second. Establishing new agencies, hiring new employees according to our assessment during a major public financial crisis is not a suitable measure. At the same time, the establishment of an agency would result in an increase in the number of public sector entities and thus an increase in the resources needed to operate the public sector. In the DeSUS Group, we also agree with the Government's opinion that the solutions proposed by the Hemp Act would contribute to increasing the use of cannabis in Slovenia in the general population and in particular in young people. The ESPAT study and other studies show that Slovenian adolescents are more at risk of using cannabis and that the promotion of cannabis as a completely harmless or medicinal plant, in particular among young people, may have additional negative consequences. According to the National Institute for Public Health, the number of persons seeking medical assistance for use of cannabis from year to year is increasing. In 2012, 61.7% of aid seekers in the prevention and treatment centres sought assistance due to the consequences of cannabis use, in particular in the group under 24 years of age. In 2011, up to 24 years of age, 36% of those who first entered the hemp treatment programme had problems. Scientific evidence indicates several scientific risks due to the use of hemp. Psychiatric disorders, such as depression and psychosis, cardiovascular disease and respiratory disease, are also noted by an extended professional college for psychiatry. There is also sufficient verifiable evidence in professional literature to confirm the possibility of dependence on hemp and to point out an increased risk of traffic due to hemp-influenced driving. The area of industrial hemp is in line with EU agricultural rules, and further simplifications regarding the production of industrial hemp in relation to the provisions of the regulations governing the production and import of hemp are virtually impossible. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we also agree with the Government's conclusions that the proposed law does not regulate the use of hemp for medical and industrial purposes in a comprehensive and balanced manner. On the contrary. The proposal for a law increases the various health risks that would result from the proposed solutions. The use of hemp for medical purposes would be more easily regulated by amendments and additions to the Regulation governing the classification of illicit drugs, namely, hemp substances suitable for medical use from the first group of illicit drugs in the Regulation would be moved to another group in which prohibited substances may be used for medical purposes. When using hemp for medical purposes, the provisions of the Medicinal Products Act should be taken into account. As I announced at the outset in the presentation of our position, the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will support the conclusion that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u31	Thank you. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u32	Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and fellow Members! The proposal for a hemp law has been tabled in the parliamentary procedure with the signatures of more than 5,000 voters and voters. A public presentation of the opinions in the National Assembly was also made on the draft law, and we also met with a representative of the proposer in the parliamentary group. We do not support the bill in New Slovenia. Here are just a few reasons. The proposal for a hemp law covers 42 articles, indicating the terminology and professional weakness of the proposed content – terminology is inadequate in parts. There are also extremely modest provisions on control, since only three articles speak of this, without criminal provisions and the determination of the amount of the penalty. In New Slovenia we do not close our eyes that drugs have become a part of everyday life and more users every year. In the European Union's internal market, a growing number of new psychoactive substances are emerging and are being tripled between 2009 and 2012. A group of young people are particularly at risk. According to Eurobarometer surveys, in Slovenia the new psychoactive substance has already enjoyed 6.6% of young people, and this poses a high risk to public health. According to data presented in the public presentation of opinions, according to one study among adolescents aged 15 to 16 23% of cannabis users. Since 2012, it has been used at any time in life by a hemp of 230 000 people in Slovenia and 20 million in Europe. About 6,000 people use marijuana every day in Slovenia. The use of illicit drugs among young people in Slovenia, including hemp, if compared with other countries, is quite significant. In Novi Slovenija we cannot therefore agree with the threats of one of the advocates of the law, who, at a public presentation of the opinions on the bill, threatened with a criminal complaint with a policy which would oppose the law. In Novi Slovenija, we do not object to a broader debate on cannabis, but on the other hand, the laziness of cannabis and its preparations must also be confirmed professionally and scientifically by official medicine. Only a few positive lazi experiences and then the creation of political pressure will not be sufficient, as it has not been scientifically proven so far that cannabinoids would be an alternative to, for example, cancer treatment. According to cannabis experts, there is no cure and the therapeutic potential to relieve some of the symptoms and side effects should be further investigated. The proposal of the Hemp Act therefore follows the objectives of legalising marijuana and consequently its wide accessibility, so we will not support it in Novi Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr Branko Ficko will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u34	That's a nice prenuptial greeting for everyone! What would the proposed hemp law bring to our country? That's the basic question. We wanted to be explained, if necessary, by the proposalers, that the quality of life of hemp needed to be legalized. We cannot agree that the bill regulates the use of hemp for medical, industrial purposes in a comprehensive and balanced manner. Even more, different health risks could be increased in Slovenia, which would result from the proposed solutions. What, though, do international conventions and other acts provide for us in Slovenia, which is supposed to be so very conservative? The area of illicit drugs is regulated in accordance with UN conventions and other international acts. The Convention allows each country to develop its own and specific policy in the field of illicit drugs, which must follow the guidelines and conditions indicated. In the case of cannabis, for example, the Single Convention on Drugs provides that in the event of a decision to produce cannabis and resin, the State must establish a control system as envisaged for the control of opium poppy. Such a doctrine of the Convention actually allows for the controlled use of all kinds of hemp for medical purposes. In addition, let me say that cannabis users in Slovenia have not been prosecuted since 1999. Let us first look at the areas of the so-called industrial hemp. The Act on the production and transport of illicit drugs provides that poppy and hemp may only be grown for nutritional purposes on the basis of a permit issued by the Ministry responsible for agriculture, in agreement with the Ministry of Health and Home Affairs. This authorisation, however, is considered too narrow, as Article 2 of the Regulation on conditions for authorisation for the cultivation of hemp and poppy provides that hemp may be grown for the purpose of producing seed, for further reproduction, for oil production, for the production of substances for cosmetic purposes, for animal consumption, for the production of fibre and for industrial purposes. What does that mean? This means that in Slovenia we do not have properly managed hemp processing, as set out in some other European countries. Probably there is no need to stress how profitable this culture can be – this is the five-, six-fold profitability of other cultural plants – and that it can represent development potential at this stage. Let me list some of them: paper industry, construction industry, food industry, etc. - Of course everything's under control. I am talking about permits and the labelling of these products, and we expect, of course, the creative cooperation of the ministries of agriculture, health and home affairs. Let's move on to the hemp area for medical purposes. Hemp is included in the Regulation on the classification of illicit drugs in the first group, which, in accordance with Article 3 of the Law on the Production and Trafficking of illicit drugs, provides that these are plants and substances which are very dangerous to human health due to the severe consequences of their abuse and are not used in medicine. By contrast, the law provides for two other groups that can be used in medicine in another group, such as cocaine, opium, morphine, methadone. Therefore, this hemp with a sub-law could be presented in another group and could also be used for medical purposes. More and more are countries where drugs are registered, where the key substance is natural or synthetic cannabinoids. No EU Member State has legalised hemp or THC since it would violate the UN Convention on Hemp and THC as a illicit drug. In some EU countries, cannabis products are already registered. These are medicines used to relieve symptoms and not treat them. They are, of course, used under strict supervision of the doctor. In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia we are aware of the usefulness of this plant, so we supported on the Committee two decisions imposing on the competent services or the departments concerned the possibility of preparing reasoned more appropriate legal and sub-legal acts for medical use. However, the draft resolution on the national programme on illicit drugs, which will be dealt with in a short time, also provides adequate material. It was also supported by the conclusion that, within the framework of the Commission on Drugs at the Ministry of Health and in cooperation with the professional public and civil society, the possibility of using cannabis for other purposes should be considered. Let me remind you that, as a large percentage of Members and Members, we were present at an interesting debate, a public debate where there was a civil initiative hearing all their reasons and concerns, some professional comments, and some neutral performances. I believe that none of us want to use hemp for medical and industrial purposes as well as its use for recreational purposes. As a result of all the said law, as proposed, we cannot support it in Positive Slovenia. Of course, today, on a deserted day, you can legally eat a doughnut with the addition of hemp. Until such advertising, the Ministry of Health behaves conservatively – of course we expect changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u35	Thank you. Mag. Mr Tisel will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u36	Once again a nice greeting to all, honourable President of the National Assembly, distinguished Minister and Minister with co-workers, Members and Members! The proposal for the Hemp Act was prepared by the Slovenian Hemp Club and then selected enough signatures from the interested public to be presented as an initiative of the electorate to submit a proposal for the start of a legislative procedure. In the National Assembly, the Health Committee organised a public presentation of opinions on the proposed Hemp Act and the participation of the interested and professional public was a very numerous, practically full hall. Opinions were, as expected, different and also contradictory both to relax the use of hemp for medical purposes, for own use and also to produce and process for own use, that the concerns of the professional public that the medicinal effects of hemp were not sufficiently investigated. In particular, the question was raised as to whether hemp extracts also cure or only alleviate disease symptoms. Not all side effects have been studied, not all contraindications are known for the use of cannabis products. The main question is whether it is not a form of legalisation of illicit drugs, which could also become more accessible to vulnerable groups of society, such as children, adolescents and already dependent persons. Drugs such as alcohol and nicotine cause serious harm to human health as well as social relations. Any additional drugs allowed could present new problems. If we come from the fact that in Slovenia hemp is recreationally used by 150,000 people, that many patients recognise positive effects and trust their society, the Slovenian Hemp Club, we cannot even keep our eyes closed, that there is no problem. The draft law was reviewed by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and raised so many serious concerns that the law in such a form was not suitable for further consideration. The bill touches on many other laws that define this area. The most important is the Medicinal Products Act, which was recently adopted in the National Assembly. Hemp as a medicine, THC and others should be in the hands of the medical and pharmaceutical profession investigating the substances, the effects on the treatment, the side effects, the contraindications and the care of continuous quality control. Even if the active substance does not treat a particular disease and makes it easier to feel better, it is extremely important from the patient's point of view. Already in the antiquity, they knew the proverb: Dolores sedarum opus divinum est — the pain to relieve is divine work. Some Members supported the use of cannabis products or with some degree of legalisation at the public hearing and on the Health Committee. In the Slovenian Democratic Party Group we do not oppose the use of hemp for medicinal purposes, but it must be produced, processed and transported with hemp products in the hands of the medical profession, that the medicines are under professional and quality control to monitor the side effects and that there is no abuse. The existing proposal for the Hemp Act is not suitable for further consideration and we agree with this in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. However, we propose to the law's proponents to continue their efforts and to take into account the orientations of the professional public, both medical and legal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u37	Thank you, too. Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u38	Say good-bye again! In addition to the previously discussed law on self-medication, the Hemp Act also falls under the so-called package of laws that have come into the legislative process through a civil initiative. The hemp bill has just collected the most signatures, 11 thousand of which is a number of respectable. Once again, I will stress that the Social Democrats welcome the involvement of civil society, its active role in the preparation and submission of legislative proposals into the legislative procedure. Such activities should be encouraged as active citizens and citizens are needed and those who can improve the state of democracy in our society. A very welcome and good visit was also made to a public presentation of opinions highlighting a number of aspects of how it would be necessary to detabulate the use of cannabis and take further steps towards appropriate regulation in this area. In particular, the use of hemp for medical purposes would be affected below. The fact is, in the case of canabinoids and their products, we can already see that many people are attacking them. The flowering black market is completely unsupervised. The police regularly detect so-called cannabis processing laboratories, while at the same time there are such significant developments in the global context of decriminalisation or partial legalisation of cannabis. All of this means that residents and residents need sufficient information, advice and guidance on how to behave properly, while at the same time we need an independent and professional interpretation of the results of the research carried out on the use of cannabis for medical purposes. The fact is that in some European countries, such as Austria, Germany, the Netherlands and Belgium, medicines made of cannabis or containing synthetic cannabis are already registered. These medicines are used primarily to relieve pain and relieve symptoms in some serious diseases. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the Government must amend the Regulation on the classification of illicit drugs and hemp from group one to group two as soon as possible, allowing medical use. We also propose that the possibility of more appropriate legal and sub-legislative regulation and scientifically reasoned arrangements for the use of cannabis be examined both medically and for other purposes. Putting your head in the sand, not reacting in this area in our opinion means nothing good for the profession, not for the legislator, but at least for the users who will continue their existing practice in any way. In view of the extensive comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service, which, in its opinion, stated that the proposal of the Law cannot be adequately supplemented by amendments in order to meet all the necessary criteria for the drafting of the law, the Social Democrats support the decision of the Health Committee that this law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u39	Thank you, too. This concludes the presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups and we will decide on a proposal for a decision in accordance with the meeting's timetable on Thursday, 6. 3. 2014, in the context of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, this is the third defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Access to Information of Public Meaning within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government and I give the floor to Dr Gregor Virant, Minister of the Interior, for further explanation of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u40	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This is a very important law that you are considering today at third reading and is expected to be adopted. I'd say it's a small step towards the National Assembly, but it could be a big leap for Slovenia. Indeed, this law brings transparency to an area where transparency has so far not been established. This is in the field of enterprises which are owned by the majority state or municipality, either directly or indirectly, which also speaks of subsidiaries and their subsidiaries and so on up to the X knee. Why is this transparency so important? After all international studies, transparency increases responsibility in management and business; according to the local authorities, if they know that the businesses they conclude will be made public tomorrow, that they will be published online or that, on request, for example, the media, they will have to disclose these transactions, then they will probably have to consider three times before concluding any less useful business, let's say, or some controversial sponsoring contract, or a donor contract, or before the Supervisory Board agrees with the President of the Board on some unusually high discharge, what strange ratings and so on. Thus, the responsibility for decision-making will be significantly greater because this para-State economic sector will know that it is under the spotlight of the public. This also limits corruption risks and increases confidence, because a lack of trust is certainly one of the main problems of Slovenian society at this moment and we all know that trust is built on transparency. More than something is hidden, sometimes even if there is nothing strange or controversial to hide, there is some strange sense of mistrust, but why not show why they are hiding, there must be something strange in the background. In recent times these companies, their leadership has been very busy to convince you how this law can bring economic damage, any risks it poses, and then they forget – and we must not forget – that it is not just any company, it is not an economic company, it is an economic society that is our common property. If we differ as to whether it is right to have so many state-owned economies, we have different views here, we certainly do not differ as to whether we want this property to be managed economically. But here I think we're all in. And since it is our common assets, there is certainly nothing wrong with these companies if they are subject to slightly different rules than those applicable to completely private companies. There is also an argument that transparency can exacerbate the competitive situation of these companies. How? How can it transparently exacerbate the competitive situation? Throughout the logic – and again after all international research – transparency improves the competitive position as it forces the firm to operate economically, efficiently and responsibly. What has been going on in this segment of the economy, I don't think it's necessary to mention in particular because it could have been listed for a very long time, the media have reported on a lot of things, but if these things were publicly available, there would probably be a lot of other things, or maybe there wouldn't be any: from high wages in companies with losses to various hidden ratings, millions of remittances, untransparent recruitment in these companies, imprudent sharing of sponsorship and donor money, non-economic purchases, fictitious contracts, financing to certain political parties of favoured media through marketing contracts and so on and so on. So this law is a big step in the direction of greater transparency. If they had it, if they had accepted it 20 years ago, it would certainly have been better in Slovenia today.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u41	Thank you, Minister. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Madam President. A respected minister with colleagues, respectable colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a third consideration of the Law on Access to Public Information, which extends the obligation to provide such information from public sector bodies to enterprises owned by the State or municipalities as well as to banks. Citizens will thus have the right to know what is happening in these companies, how they operate, what they conclude, will become public, among other things, all donor and sponsorship contracts, legal and advisory contracts, salaries, departures and all other ratings of members of the administrations and members of the supervisory boards. The basic text of the draft law was also supplemented in the second reading by the provision that the Company for the Management of Bank Claims or the DUTB would also have to make certain information publicly available on the bad loans transferred to it. The public will become information about the Commissioner, the amount of the loan, who granted it, the insurance and the gross debt. These are loans classified in class D and E, i.e. those that are more than 90 days late and are practically called dead loans. Since the proposal follows the principle of proportionality, which means that companies will not be obliged to publish all the data, but only the key information, there is a significant reduction in the risk that over-disclosure of data would harm business and banks. After 3 months of validity of the law, provisions will apply which define the publication of data on the borrower and the lender, who granted the credit, and on insurance. The immediate publication is intended only for the acquisition of claims between the bank and the DUTB and the final gross value. The delay of the publication will result in a thorough review and download of all the information that has been brought to the DUTB in a large number of files and boxes. After 6 months of application of the Act, provisions will be applied defining the obligation to collect and publish data on the Supervisor, the payment transactions of public economic institutions, public undertakings carrying out an economic service, and other undertakings with 100 % public ownership. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we will also support the proposal of the law in the third reading. We particularly welcome the provisions which the DUTB commits to disclose bad credit data, even if we remember that we will spend more than 4 billion taxpayers' money for the rehabilitation of banks. That is why we believe that taxpayers have the right to know what has been closed to the public to date, but today the public has neither the right nor the opportunity to look at salaries in state-owned enterprises, ratings, departures, sponsorship contracts, donations, counseling and legal services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u43	Thank you, too. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u44	Dear Mr. Minister with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The current amendments and additions to the Public Information Access Act bring about the necessary changes in the transparency of the operations of institutions managing state assets. The new law extends the range of commitments to access public information to business entities with the dominant influence of the State, the self-government local communities and other public entities. It is therefore a matter of extending the commitment cycle to public institutions, public companies and state-owned companies and the ownership of local communities. In many cases, the disclosure of information on the work and operations of these entities will reveal corruption in the recruitment and implementation of procurement procedures, the irrational use of financial resources and the poor management of the management or administration of these institutions, in particular in the past. The gravity of the effects brought by the amendment of the law will certainly be reflected in the operation of public institutions, public companies and state-owned companies and the ownership of local communities in the future. As data will be made available to the public either through public publication or through requests for access to information of a public nature, the possible illegality of work will be significantly easier not only to disclose but also to report to the supervisory authorities and law enforcement authorities and to sanction. In view of the fact that these business entities manage state or public funds, the public must also be able to review and indirectly control the operation and use of such funds. In New Slovenia, the marriage solutions brought by these novels are welcomed and at the same time we regret that these solutions have not been legalized years ago. Certainly, public control over the operation of majority state-owned companies or municipal property would greatly help to reduce corruption, in particular systemic corruption. This has grown most precisely in companies owned by the majority of the state, as the State, as its owners, as well as other supervisory institutions, did not have effective control over the operations of these entities. The members of the Supervisory Board were appointed by the ruling coalition each time, and they exchanged in these companies without any continuity being ensured. In short, the situation now in business entities with the dominant influence of the state and local communities has become an ideal breeding ground for corruption. In particular, we stress that its consistent implementation will be important in order to achieve the expected effects of this law. Let us also express our high expectations on this point from every official to access information of a public nature. It has the appropriate tools to ensure the implementation of the law within the legal framework adopted and, if necessary, to sanction consistently. Important information of a public nature is also information on bad credits, i.e. those where obligations are paid for a delay of more than 90 days. According to the media, some banks in the Bank Management Company do not transfer all bad credits, most of the time simply because the public is not aware of the amount of individual bad credit and its recipient. This, of course, means playing this, the law under consideration today even before it was adopted. It is therefore important to supplement the proposal for a law prepared by the Government for third reading by providing that information of a public nature is information on all credits where the borrower is late in fulfilling his obligations for more than three months and belongs to group D and E, whether or not they are transferred to a bad bank. If the amendment to this law is adopted, the Members of the New Slovenia Group will also support the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Information Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u45	Thank you, too. Mr Jerko Čehovin has the floor to present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. Nice greetings to the minister with the team. Dear Members and Members! That corruption in Slovenia is a serious and real problem, more or less we all know. Not only does the Commission point out this to prevent corruption, but we also received a report in Ernst&Young's survey last year that Slovenia is even first among countries at the level of economic corruption. This infamous city has actually been earned, including because the authorities so far did not have the tools to obtain data relating to the operations of these persons. This government, as well as its coalition partners, have therefore committed ourselves to a sharp fight against corruption. And the law before us today is a key step and a tool to achieve this goal; corruption is unacceptable and must be suppressed in all areas. For economic development and the confidence of citizens and citizens in the economy, politicians and the rule of law, it is essential that the functioning of state authorities, local authorities and all those directly or indirectly managing public funds is transparent and responsible. The aim of the new Law on Access to Public Information is to strengthen transparency of business, public commitment, responsibility and integrity in governance. The mandate of this government has already taken many steps in the right direction, and measures have been taken in both the area of combating the grey economy, the rehabilitation of the banking system, the work on a blacker, more efficient tax procedure and other measures that would not be listed in detail here. The fact is, in the fight against corruption, the most tools for controlling the management of public funds will be offered by the law that we are considering today. Therefore, one of the main objectives of the proposal is to help more efficient management of assets and financial assets of business entities under the dominant influence of public law persons, in particular state-owned companies, by raising the level of transparency in the conclusion of transactions. On the other hand, this will also help to create competitive market conditions mainly for small and medium-sized companies that want to operate or compete with companies under the dominant influence of the State or the self-government local communities. Thus, the amendment of the law extends to economic societies and other private legal persons who are under the direct or indirect dominant influence of the State, the municipalities or other persons governed by public law. All those persons who have so far not been obliged to provide any information to the public will have to disclose the basic information relating to their operations. Public data will thus be information on the type of transaction, the contractual partner, the contractual value and the level of payment and the date and duration of the transaction. Donors, sponsors, consultants, authors and all other contracts having the same effect will also be disclosed. Data relating to contracts for the execution of public contracts, concession contracts or public-private partnerships will also be made publicly available. The bill also includes the Company for Bank Claims Management among the debtors, which has been the most widely discussed in recent times. With the adoption of the law, DUTB will therefore become one of the debtors for the transmission of basic data from credit maps that it has or will take over. However, not only with regard to the bad credits taken from state banks, but also from all banks that have received measures under the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. The DUTB will therefore publish on its website information on the type and value of the transaction, the borrower, the persons who granted the loan, the type and subject of the insurance and, finally, the gross exposure to the individual non-payer. In view of the amount of money that Slovenia has earmarked for the rehabilitation or recapitalisation of the bank market, we believe that the interest in this case is undisputed. In view of the huge step to be taken with the proposal, however, we believe that excessive disclosure of credit card data that the DUTB will not take is unnecessary and reckless, as this would result in additional economic damage to banks, capital outflows and, of course, the responsibility for the new instability in the banking system that we do not want to take on in our client. We believe that the proposal before us is a good one and that it will represent an essential step towards greater transparency and the fight against corruption. In Positive Slovenia, we will therefore support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Access to Public Information and the amendments tabled by the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u47	Thank you, too. Ms Sonja Ramšak will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Minister, Secretary of State with co-worker, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! At its 21st regular meeting on 4 February 2014, the National Assembly held a second reading of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Access to Public Information, which adopted 15 amendments. On the basis of the decision taken by the National Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia drafted the text of the draft law on third reading, which is before us today, Members and Members. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we also supported the law's intention to extend the range of taxpayers to business entities under the dominant influence of public law persons, to increase the degree of transparency of the business of companies and other legal entities owned by the State and municipalities; to ensure that the availability of the assets of business entities owned by the State and the Communities is effectively, accountable and lawful; to create competitive conditions on the market for those companies wishing to operate with companies owned by the State and municipalities, or to create a healthy business environment, as the Minister also spoke of. Although the new pledges will not be obliged to provide all the information or will not be bound to publish all the documents, but only to specific key information, such as contracts on expenditure for the procurement of goods, construction, agency, advisory services, sponsorship and donor contracts and others, we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that this will achieve the basic purpose of the proposed novel, this is a greater transparency of business on the one hand, and on the other, corruption risks will be reduced. Finally, the paper also opens access to information of a public nature for data on remuneration and staffing of the management and members of the supervisory boards of the debtors. It will also be reduced by chronicism and nepotism, which, of course, will have to withdraw expertise and transparency. In view of the fact that the coalition MPs and Members did not support the amendment to Article 8 in the second reading of the law, which we have tabled together with the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we expect you to support the amendment of the draft law in the third reading of the amendment by the Slovenian People's Party, New Slovenia and the Slovenian Democratic Party. Indeed, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, contrary to Positive Slovenia, we believe that the information on credits which have not been transferred to the Bank's Claims Management Company must also be disclosed. If we really want to achieve transparency, transparency and so on, then we believe and appeal to all of you to support the amendments proposed by the opposition groups. If you do not support our amendment, we will also consider in the Slovenian Democratic Party supporting the law that we have announced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u49	Thank you, too. Mag. Majda Potter will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary with the co-workers! At the third reading of the proposed law, which complements and amends the basic law, the Social Democrats reiterate their view that only a regular procedure is appropriate for a more extensive amendment of the law. The initial proposal for a law went through a prescribed procedure for inter-sectoral coordination of public presentations, where different stakeholders can express their views and comments, and that is why it is also the path by which the amended law must be allowed to comment on it by the interested and professional public. This is a matter of law that speaks of accessibility to information of a public nature, expected and urgent, as this is also an opportunity to verify public interest. Of course, it is as important as how much of the proposed is also taken into account. In doing so, we had a lot of comments on the procedures, because we believe that the law requires careful preparation and consideration of the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service, since this is a law with important legislative material. It has already been mentioned that the basic law of 2003 has also been an important step forward in opening data for citizens and citizens, bringing us closer to an important objective, namely a country with state institutions in the service of people. It is therefore important to recognise that the functioning of state institutions must be transparent, that the right to access information of a public nature is a fundamental human right, as also enshrined in Article 39(2), which provides a basis for the open, transparent and responsible functioning of public administration, which is essential for people. It will only be possible to achieve the objective set by the government of Alenka Bratušek as a priority: to increase the confidence of citizens and citizens in the functioning of the state and its institutions. The proposed novel is intended to identify new public information commitments, to establish an official register of IJPES debtors and to establish centralised and uniformly proactive public disclosures of the public data of certain debtors, to which the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia will be responsible for public payments. Social Democrats also adopt the objective of this law, which is defined as raising the degree of transparency in the conclusion of transactions for the more efficient management of the financial resources of business entities under the dominant influence of public law persons. We are not plowing here, but this goal is similar with solutions in some other countries; for example Croatia, Great Britain, Denmark, Sweden, Serbia or even remote New Zealand. The solutions should help to create competitive market conditions primarily for small and medium-sized companies, particularly when they want to operate with companies under the dominant influence of the State or local communities. It is therefore a matter of ensuring a more competitive business environment. The second objective is to ensure the transparency of the remuneration of managers in companies in their own countries and municipalities and to create conditions in which recruitment in these companies will be transparent. This should also lead to the objective of reaching individual leadership positions by people with adequate experience and quality leadership. All of this will also reduce corruption risks. However, it should also be stressed that only specific key information is identified as public information for new entrants; that new entrants are not burdened with administrative burdens and that the pro-active publication of absolute public expenditure data should avoid any burden on new entrants. This will be achieved by means of a centralised and uniform way of publication. The public sees corruption in Slovenia as a serious problem. For this reason, the Social Democrats support every legal provision that allows for the reduction of corruption risks and is also on track to reduce the level of corruption. Then Slovenia may no longer find itself in the circle of countries with the greatest corruption. However, due to the public’s expectation that the high burden of recapitalisation of banks for everyone should not put companies’ operations at risk, their competitiveness should not be reduced and, above all, we expect the adoption of a law to bring about a possible constitutional assessment. Part of the information officer's comments, in particular those that the applicant has failed to take into account, are expected to be removed in the next step, when this year in 2014, the Directive on the re-use of public sector information is also adopted. It also seems to us that the promise to introduce or implement the Re-Use of Information Directive is important due to the Ombudsman's comments. Let me get this. The Social Democrats will support the Amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Access to Public Information, as well as the amendments of coalition parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u51	Thank you, too. Ms Kristina Valenčič will move forward with the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u52	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. Today is the third day before us, the last to consider the novels of the Public Information Access Act, which received unanimous support in the first reading. The main purpose and purpose of this novelty is to increase the transparency of the business of companies and other private and legal entities owned by the State and municipalities. It is important marriage solutions that can reveal in the medium and long term many things that are hidden today and should have been revealed long ago. What does the specific novelty bring? The majority of state-owned or municipal-owned companies and banks receiving State measures to strengthen the stability of banks will have to proactively publish on their websites the basic data from the sponsoring, donor, advisory and other author contracts within five days of the conclusion of the business and the remuneration of managers. Public economic institutions and public companies will be re-involved in the Supervisor application. The public will have access to the main data on bad loans transferred to the Company for Bank Claims Management or the so-called bad bank. It is therefore a matter of solutions and measures which, according to the National Gazette, are necessary, appropriate and proportionate to the weight of the consequences. In Slovenia, corruption is a real and pressing problem and transparency and the public are important tools for preventing corruption. It is right that we do everything we can to prevent political and interesting recruitment, clientism and the exhaustion of state and municipal enterprises, not only at the normative level, but also in the daily political or party work. Taxpayers contribute to public funds and must therefore have the opportunity and right to control the use of these funds. Economists themselves say that competitiveness and transparency are the basis of a healthy business environment that is not at a satisfactory level in Slovenia. There are many coordinations between the competent authorities, as well as a series of amendments accompanying the consideration of this law, in order to address the complex and sensitive matter. The novelty that is before us today is further improved by both substantive and functional improvements due to the amendments that have been adopted. As it is said, with the solutions proposed, we increase transparency in state and municipal companies operating in the single market and with the same economic challenges as their private-owned competitors. Therefore, economies and financial professions have been alerted to the point of view that a reasonable margin of transparency should be carefully considered and put in place that does not put these companies in an uncompetitive position. In the course of the consideration of the novelty, amendments were adopted allowing these entities to exceptionally, i.e. when it comes to so-called core transactions, so that they also do not disclose the absolute public information on legal transactions if they prove in the process that this would seriously harm their competitive position on the market. All the time we have considered this novel, and also in the preparation of the amendment tabled by the Civil Gazette at Article 8, we have weighed between transparency and possible business damage that may be suffered by economic operators in state or municipal property. In the Civil Gazette, the public interest prevailed, as the extensive recapitalisation of banks with poor loans from taxpayers, the transfer of bad loans to a poor bank and the continuation of operations of recapitalised banks, and the banks' debt management companies constituted exceptional economic conditions requiring a high degree of transparency. Transparency, however, is an essential prerequisite for demonstrating responsible and verifiable legal and prudent conduct, which is the essence of achieving public confidence in those measures, in the Government, in the Bank of Slovenia and not least in the bad bank. That is why we have tabled an amendment in the National Gazette, which provides for the public publication of data also of those bad credits from credit rating groups D and E that have not been transferred to a bad bank, but remain in these banks in state ownership. In the case of bad credits, it is a huge financial and social damage and actions that seriously jeopardised the Slovenian banking system. Since Slovenian taxpayers will pay from their pockets to restore the banking system, there is a dominant public interest in disclosing certain data relating to bad loans. Taxpayers have the right to know which companies are actually debtors of all taxpayers in Slovenia, what amounts of credit they are subject to and on what basis they have been granted these loans. Colleagues and colleagues, I suggest you listen to our arguments and support the amendments tabled by the Civil Code. As we say, Members and Members of the National Gazette will support the law as well as the amendments to the coalition and, of course, the amendments that we have tabled ourselves, as the proposed solutions greatly help to reduce the risks of abuse, corruption and clientism. We have over a billion good reasons to support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr Janez Ribič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. Dear President of the National Assembly, Mr Minister with fellow Members, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! The last time before us is an extensive and extremely important novel of the Law on Access to Public Information, which, as we know, has raised a lot of dust in recent months. Members of the Slovenian People's Party have been positive about the bill since the first reading. We have also been actively involved in the drafting of amendments aimed at increasing transparency in the area of the past and current operations of banks, which have received measures under the rules on ensuring the stability of the banking system. In doing so, I have in mind the transparency of the claims that have already been and will be transferred from the business banks to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, the so-called bad bank. In our Group of Members, we are pleased that the Government, or Minister Virant, who, through the proposals of the amendments that were then adopted on the Committee, has clearly defined the way and the system of public publication of the transferred claims, although there has been considerable dissatisfaction in the coalition, as we have been able to understand, and such a decision has been made with compressed teeth. Of course, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we had no reservations regarding the public disclosure of all key information concerning the transfer of bad claims to a bad bank. Moreover, at the urgent meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, which was called upon by our request, we have even proposed that the third review of the proposed law be carried out as soon as possible, allowing for the speedy adoption and enforcement of the law. There has been no vote on that decision due to the Board's indiscretion, unfortunately, but our pressure on the coalition has been heard. In addition, we have already tabled an amendment with SDS colleagues in the second reading, which would also allow for the public publication of credit information that is classified according to international banking standards in group D and E and has not yet been transferred to a bad bank. As a result of the billions of recapitalisations received by the banks, it is only reasonable for these information to become public. After all, various purposes may be behind this, why certain claims are not transferred to a bad bank, although they are actually valued as the worst. With a view to removing any doubts about these claims, you and your colleagues from SDS and New Slovenia have again tabled an amendment to Article 8 of the proposed law, which discusses the public publication of the worst-valued loans that have not yet been transferred to a bad bank. We will, of course, support this amendment in our parliamentary group. We will also support the amendments tabled by the Members of the Civil Service List, which have tabled substantively very similar amendments. It is not to be overlooked, however, that there is clearly no uniform position in the coalition on this issue, which in the Slovenian People's Party's Group is concerned that the entire law in the coalition's work is adopted with a fig in its pocket. We only hope that the intentions are truly sincere and are in everyone's interest to ensure the full transparency of the operations of all business entities, which are mostly in the direct or direct ownership of the country. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, of course, we support the proposed law, we support the increase in transparency in the functioning of business entities under the dominant influence of public law persons, in particular companies owned directly or indirectly by the State. We believe that such an increase in transparency will help to better manage the assets and financial resources of those entities, but nevertheless we do not create the illusion that there will be no problems in implementing the law. The avoidance and references to such or other business and other secrets will undoubtedly be great, but at present we have no choice but to adopt, enforce and implement the law as soon as possible. The time component in that matter, particularly in the area of one of the key processes of stabilising public finances, transferring bad claims from business banks to a bad bank; these processes are already under way, all the more so as to be transparent, so disclosure of information on bad claims and a clearer definition of disclosure procedures is of exceptional importance for the further recovery of the Slovenian banking system and consequently to improve the economic climate in our country. In our parliamentary group, we will support the amendment of the opposition parties to Article 8 as well as the amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, which regulate the public publication of information on the worst credits that have not yet been transferred to a bad bank. I hope this will be followed by a coalition. As a matter of fact, we will support the proposed amendment of the Law on Access to Public Information in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u55	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the draft law as a whole. The first one has the word "magic." Katarina Hotchevar, prepare a magi for her. Matthew Tonin, Mrs. Alenka Bikar, Mr. Mirko Brulc. Here you go, mag. Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, hello! It's been months since we started reading the new Law on Access to Public Information. There was much more to be said, more written. In the last few days, heated debates in certain circles have been somehow asking me questions, such as who is afraid of disclosing information in public or municipal enterprises, or who is even more afraid of disclosing certain data in credit maps of bad loans. When we weigh the usefulness of public disclosure of data or, on the other hand, between the potential problems that this can bring to their business, the result is clear: if it comes to the euro of taxpayers' money, taxpayers have the right to know how this money has been spent. And sponsoring privileged elites, which has been the practice in some state companies, probably even in municipal companies, must become the past. At the first reading of the amendment, I pointed out that the typical case is bottomless money; the money we throw at the New Ljubljana Bank, and from there we do not get any information. The public shall be kept up to date when banks need money, when it is necessary to know for what purposes this money has been spent, and access to this information shall be limited and hidden under the so-called ‘business secrecy’. For this reason, we are also making an amendment to Article 8, whereby credit data with credit D and E will be made available regardless of whether they have been transferred to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims or whether they are still in the assets of banks that have been rehabilitated by tax money. In doing so, we want to divulge to the public information on whether they were careful in the bank when they gave out these loans; what the law or ethical standards actually required of them. In the Civil Gazette, we want to restore the public's confidence that the traces of taxpayer's money are not lost in the black box and under the seal of business secrecy. In my previous or in this government, as a Member, I have often voted in favour of laws that restricted certain rights or cut money on items. So I'm going to say that citizens find it hard to understand why it was money for banks to save banks. I understand the reasons why we had to do this, but I don't understand why we would then hide information about the banks that we saved with the taxpayer's money. For this reason, this law needs to be confirmed, as well as amendments that further improve these matters. Therefore, I think that support for this law and amendments that allow these data to be disclosed also on the credits remaining in banks should be clear to any Member representing taxpayers and must be self-sustaining. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin. Mr. Mirko Brulc is behind him.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u58	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Who is afraid of transparent public money management? Those who manage this public money recklessly, or those who make use of it for their personal gain. The correction of the law on access to public information, which is before us today, is in a way a step forward, a step in the fight against such abuses of public money. Of course, there are still areas in this law where we may have been too afraid, perhaps too determined, perhaps even unclear. Let me point out just two open things that I think are worth mentioning; that is, if you read carefully, there is no record that the law will apply back. All laws apply; retroactivity is problematic, however you turn things around. If someone adopts the law that we are going to adopt today - I hope - to confirm, interpret very formally, he may even claim that transparency and transparency at the DUTB, i.e. at a bad bank, does not apply to bad loans that have already been transferred, but only to those that are yet to be transferred. Now, I think the Minister has repeatedly explained in the debates that, of course, the law must be understood and interpreted in such a way that it applies to all the bad credits currently on the DUTB. I strongly hope that all marriages will be interpreted in this way and that they will accept the Minister's thesis. Now, if we have exposed bad loans to the DUMB, then let's ask ourselves why these bad loans would not also be disclosed in the remaining banks, especially in those that the taxpayers will recover in one way or another. For this reason, we also support those amendments that go in the direction of including disclosure of data also for poor loans or for credit class D and E. This law also introduces, among other things, double access to public information; one is proactive transparency and the other is transparency on demand. We have a small segment of companies with 100% national or municipal ownership, which will be required to publish certain data proactively on the websites as well. So we'll introduce some kind of new supervisor if you want. In short, these 100%-owned public companies will owe this information to themselves to disclose and publish it publicly. On the other hand, there are mostly state-owned companies, such as Telekom and Petrol, a major state-owned company, where millions and hundreds of millions of million are actually rotating and where very high and heavy donor, advisory and other donor contracts are also concluded. These companies, however, will only be subject to transparency on request. So these companies won't have to publish these details themselves, but we can only get to them if we demand it. The question is why such a distinction between companies with 100% ownership and the bulk of state ownership, but if, nevertheless, the law introduces some guardians, if it is very sensitive data, that the company may nevertheless refuse to publish these data if it harms their work and market situation. So, if we are aware that such a protector exists, then at least I do not understand the logical difference between companies with 100% ownership, who have to publish virtually everything online, and businesses with the highest national ownership, where companies are obliged to provide information on request. That's a difference that bothers me a little bit. However, I would like to apply in some way the same principle for all companies, 100% state-owned ones, and also those in the majority or majority state-owned property. But as I said in the introduction, I appreciate that this is a step forward in this law, and I will, of course, support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor. Mr Jožef Jerovšek and Dr Ljubica Jelusič prepare for him. Here you go, Mr. Brultz.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u60	Thank you very much, very nice greetings to all present! We are living in a time of extreme mistrust, we are talking about corruption everywhere, abuse of positions and so on. But the truth is that we still don't show it with our finger, but in general: everyone steals, everyone takes advantage, everyone has butter on their head, and so on. But to come from words to actions, not yet. Therefore, I think that this law will only contribute to the fact that we will finally speak for once not in thought, but in the light of the information we will receive in this system of access to information of a public nature. But I still think that sobriety is needed, because we often see that the seal of "business secrecy" is hit somewhere and so on and that such, indeed, business secrets must be protected and these are the guards. That's right. But if I mention it, someone on the other side of the mind, who's protected, has butter on his head and so on. That's not what this is about! There are also business secrets for public companies and so on, which must be protected. I think that many public companies, such as these have municipalities, act fairly, very transparently and that there are no such deviant cases. I think it is necessary to restore the confidence of citizens and citizens to believe that people work in these institutions, in these companies and so on. Of course, we are now burdened with these bad loans, and that has been said quite a lot today. I agree that if the taxpayer invests money in the resolution of these major failures of bankers, it is only right to note that bankers, who are mostly the same persons, would not continue to repeat these matters. That is why this public is urgently needed, but, of course, we must be as careful as I said, that we do not interfere with the rights that every citizen and citizen has. I think that — for example, I was the supervisor of an important state firm, and I could not possibly get the information on the salary of the president of this administration. That's impossible! That's impossible! They said, "No, you don't care! You don't need to know that, you know, the president of the supervisory..." and so on. These anomalies were present, this has to be cut, and with this law, I am sure that we will also achieve this, and that, I repeat, the fuses must only be very thorough and those should be taken into account when the threat of competition or anyone, and not least abroad and many others, exploiting our openness. I will, of course, support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the word and then Dr Ljubica Jelusič and Mr Ivan Hršak and Mag. Ivan Vogrin. Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with co-workers! I have always and consistently supported every solution and would also, among those who are the most vocal against corruption in this country, oppose the concealment of those data with which individuals in Slovenia have created capital empires and with which they have turned money into tax havens and businesses, including hotels in the Adriatic and so on. Of course, I also support this law. And Mr. Minister, the last time I told you that I was concerned or doubted that you had political power within this coalition, that this would really happen. The bad sign was the amendment that postponed the implementation of certain things in the transitional provisions supported by the coalition to 3 or 6 months. Until then, there's a lot to hide. And another bad sign is the information that I caught somewhere in the towers, here in the hallways, that Positive Slovenia is having a crisis meeting because these circles that are now freaking out, what is going to be revealed, have called on them that they must obviously be against us twisting your hands so that this should not be accepted. Is it normal for the biggest government party to boycott this debate? Is it still under the command of the Zemljerics, Isilovićs and other parts of the Udba who have broken into banks and are shaping the fate of Slovenia in the most negative way? This is an unprecedented scandal, ladies and gentlemen! And look, because of this situation in this country and in this society, when the shadows of the past, from the previous regime still have absolute authority over the distribution of money in this country, we must adopt such laws, although, in my opinion, our constitution and positive legislation already guarantee that, say, the government, parliament and others, we have the right to look into what we approve of here in law to these companies and to these banks and others. For the last time, I was also confirmed by constitutional lawyer Mr Teršek, who said in a good statement that this is a mockery of the Constitution, because it is in itself conditional! Unfortunately, however, in this country there is a subterranean government derived from the former Udba, which is now ruling. That is why we are obliged to adopt these laws and to pave the way for our citizens to show that this Parliament, or at least most, is only breathing with them and I would like to save this country from these steaks, these shackles of the Mafia underground. But at this point, I'm not sure if we're gonna make it, because the party that's extended is obviously -- I don't know what they're gonna come up with. But what we have heard, of course, is which authorities whose state firms are afraid to disclose only taxive data, how much they give for retirements, how much they pay for wages, how much they give for sponsorship contracts or consultancy contracts — half is fictitious! We know! Let's not hide our eyes. In these companies, half of the advisory contracts are to get the money out of the country and to get into a certain pocket to get it into, in the end, a certain tax haven and so on. Are we going to cut this knot or are we not going to cut it? Will these forces prove to be stronger today, making new proposals for postponement and so on? See, of course, this law requires that everything becomes transparent, not just what is at the bottom of a bad bank. For this reason, of course, I call on the Slovenian public to be aware that this is not the only law that may open the way for us to stop once, that we will know that it is also in such a function to prevent the law that closes the udbov files, the udbov archives. Let the people go, sign the request for this referendum, and go to the referendum. Because these same people, who were from the Udbów companies in Celovac in 1990, in Trieste, where the Ascension of the company, where a lot of money was transformed, then went to the banks and there caused this disaster, this disaster, Slovenia. And they're hiding everywhere; in archives and in banks; in state-owned companies! All over the place are the same tycoon circles that come out of those times. That's why we have to succeed in the archive referendum and again in this marriage, otherwise we have a disaster. People need to be aware that these are extremely important things. Without their help, we are indifferent to this dragon, before this octopus, which is in the background of a huge billion money stolen from the pockets of taxpayers, with which — stolen money — can pay for everything and bribe with the littleness of everyone. And then he's a mute and a victim in fact who doesn't stop corruption from happening anymore. I hope we're well aware of how these things are going. And I call on Positive Slovenia to end these ties with this mob, not to go out of Parliament on their orders, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u63	Mr Jerovšek, I suggest that you discuss properly and do not invite any of the parties in this way, especially if you use words correctly.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u64	Why can't I call, Madam Vice President? Why? Because you were among the founders of that procession when it was established? Isn't that why you're supposed to be calling? I think it is my duty to call for all parties to take their hands away from what has happened to the state by means of the underground para-state. This law is a law that is supposed to limit the possibility of parastating. There's a parachutist in our house. So, Mr. Minister, I would like to ask you a further question: Are you still sure that we will succeed at this point in time, or will all of this go further into the future? Because it is bad that we have adopted the last two amendments of the coalition – by delaying the implementation of this law. It is bad, though you were the last time to accept these rules for all bad loans that are not transferred to a bad bank, the coalition has overwhelmingly rejected this – even by violating the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and so on! Once again, are we strong enough – those parties currently sitting in Parliament? Are they still in these positions or are they going to fall? Because these efforts to turn the hand in order to prevent the exercise of transparency. This is servile, I would say, or by saying that they will now become competitively worse. This seems to me to be the same as all these years, when this tycoonisation took place, when these similar attempts were to limit wages and demand transparency for the awards of managers and supervisory councils, there was always an argument that then the best managers would go abroad. And I always said go! Only, unfortunately, no one has gone because they are not so good because they are only good at looting — some. And now again with these quasi arguments! If everything were public in all these years, this would not have happened and today's companies, insurance companies and this would have been significantly more competitive and would have been able to buy some kind of company in some market. And it didn't happen because it was all covered up, everything under cover, they could do anything! Mr. Brultz said it perfectly. When he was apparently in Hit, the supervisor, all the fantastic managers, never, nor the world of control, revealed to him how much money he spends on rewards, wages. Isn't that a crime? Isn't that a crime? And now such images are placarding and influencing the public that something incredible will happen if we enforce this law! It'll be better. It'll be better! The police and the anti-corruption commission will have to cooperate with us alone, and I don't know who else and the judiciary, too, for prevention, or we'll be losers. The media will show that we are corrupt people here, as they keep showing. And uncritical media generalise dishonesty on all Members – at all – I am sure that at this point the majority is on the side of honesty, on the side of citizens, but will convince them even more than they have managed so far that the National Assembly is a source of evil. Ladies and gentlemen and our citizens; it is not the National Assembly a source of evil! The source of evil is part of the executive power, of state-owned enterprises, where money is not controlled and they are trying to prevent it with all their ticks. And we need to listen to these quasi arguments about what's gonna happen. Whoever is not prepared to be a manager under these conditions, let him resign and go where he is allowed to – not with his money – "work like a pig with whores", as I say in Styria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary Gregor Virant has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u66	Thank you. Thank you, Mr Jerovšek, for supporting the law, because I understand that you support the law. Thank you also to the other opposition parliamentary groups. I think it would be very good if we passed this law together, unanimously. This would be a very good message for the Slovenian public. A few explanations, perhaps, for Mr. Tonin. I hope he's still watching because he asked me some questions. Indeed, the question of so-called retroactivity was raised at first and second readings. Will the law also apply to those documents or to those transactions that were concluded before its entry into force? This same question was raised already in the basic version of the 2003 law, and practice has given this very clear answer: yes – or I need to be more precise, we are not talking about retroactivity here at all. The law is, of course, applied to the future, but accessibility and the public is applicable to all documents with which the debtors have access. So also for those who refer to previously concluded transactions. It is said that companies are bound by accounting rules, financial, tax and other regulations, that they have to keep documentation for a period of time, and if they still keep it, it is also publicly available. Therefore, it is not retroactivity, it is the application of the law, it is also the public and data availability of those transactions that have been concluded in the past, if companies still have, they have this documentation. As far as different public regimes are concerned – proactive, on request, etc. — perhaps the matter in marriage is somewhat complicated, and I will explain it briefly. Basically, the widest regime applies to all companies owned by a majority of the state or municipality. So all companies that are owned by the majority of the state or municipal property, directly or indirectly, are committed to disclosing a specific set of information. So also their subsidiaries up to x, y knees. This is all information about the business expenditure of these companies, it is said, when they acquire goods, services and, of course, when they conclude donor, sponsoring, marketing, consultancy, lawyers and the like; everywhere where money goes out of these companies. And all the information relating to personnel matters relating to management: supervisory councils, members of administrations; basic human resources data showing that these people meet the conditions and criteria for appointment – according to some type of CV of these persons will be made publicly available – then all data on their salaries, awards, ratings, service cars, departures and all other ratings, both those agreed upon by the contract as well as those paid. This is the widest public accessibility regime applicable to all companies in majority public ownership. Here and from this, companies can only come out if they prove that disclosure would harm their competitive position, and this cannot yet apply to sponsorship, donor and advisory contracts. It's all absolutely public. The second thing is a proactive announcement. This is said to be the data that companies must publish on the Internet on their own. Again, this is the data from the donor, sponsoring and advisory contracts. The basic data contained in these contracts will be published on the Internet from the outset, so it will not even be necessary to submit a request from a journalist or individual citizen in order to obtain this information. This will be proactively public, as we say. Such a public will also be considered bad credits, those transferred to the DUTB, or those remaining in banks, but it will be seen if appropriate amendments are voted. Proactive transparency will also apply to those loans. This means that DUTB will have to publish all these basic data – the amount of the loan, the borrower who granted the loan – on the Internet. Of course, it will take some time to do this, because it is not that easy, these are whole stacks and whole files of material, and through this you will have to get through, get into the form of some transparent tables and then post it online. With regard to the question that he was probably pushing ghosts today, what about those bad loans that remain in banks that are not transferred to a bad bank. This is one point where opinions are obviously shared. My personal opinion, however, has not been taken as a position of the Government, since the Government has not discussed this, is very clear. I think that by the same logic as public loans that go to a bad bank, there must also be public loans that remain on banks. For a number of reasons. First, because these are also credits that have twisted our bank hole, which we are all paying out of our pockets now, and this is not a flossule and this is not a demagogy, but a fact. And secondly, because it will also be interesting to see and know why certain loans are not transferred to a bad bank. There must be some criteria, some arguments, some reasons. This is also a fundamental point of transparency to be seen. When the public sees what is happening in an institution somewhere, it can also ask appropriate questions. When it raises appropriate questions, institutions must provide appropriate answers. I don't like what's going on at the Bank Claims Management Company at a bad bank. There was too much hiding, too much intransparency and the things that then came out to the public, but they're weird and problematic, from the level of wages, consulting contracts and so on. Here we actually have two amendments that go this way so that those loans that remain in banks, bad loans, D and E credits, also become public. One is the amendment of the opposition parliamentary groups, the other is the amendment of the Civil List. With regard to this point, these amendments are identical. Both provide this information to the public. In the amendment of the Civil Code, there are other changes that the law needs. In other words, if you support this amendment in the opposition, you will also achieve what you want. So the bad loans that remain in banks are public. This is one important question, but it is not, I would say, the most crucial issue of this law. I think we all agree that with this law without such an amendment, I hope it will be adopted, but without it we are taking a very big step forward. All these fears that appear and come from these companies are, in my opinion, twisted from the vine. I really don't see how and why transparency could make someone's competitive situation worse. Just the opposite! According to my transparent business, it improves your competitive position. There is also a possibility of a way out or an option of an exception in cases where an entity proves that a disclosure would really harm its competitive position, then there is a possibility in the law of the so-called way out or the possibility of an exception, that the information should not be disclosed, and then the information officer will decide, at the end of the court, whether or not the company has done so on a reasonable basis. So we have all the guards, no problems, no worries. It is interesting how much noise this way can cause the law to cause some economic damage and damage businesses and so on. All this non-economic activity and all this damage over the years and decades – nothing about it. Birds chirp and all international research shows that state-owned companies are poorly managed. State-owned companies are not effectively managed, this is scientifically proven, verified, published a thousand times. I think that more and more of us, who are firmly convinced that the only legal and definitive remedy for the good business of these companies, is for more jobs, for more taxes paid by these companies just to sell to good strategic owners, to those who will really be interested in the development of these companies. As long as they are in the hands of the countries, they are in the hands of the politicians in one way or another; and in the hands of those who are not directly encouraged, they are motivated to operate well. Practice shows that this may work for the Swedes, that it may work for the Danes, who, of course, have much less state property, but for the Slovenes, this shows the practice of the last 20 years, it has not worked. If when the time was right, when everyone was shaking and talking about national interest, they were making the right moves, then today they would be substantially different from us. If we privatized and sold businesses to strategic owners at the right time, we would get good purchases, we would have money today, we would not be running out of money for the bridges that are falling apart, for the emergency at the Clinical Center and so on. We'd have had enough money, and we'd have gotten rid of all this inefficient business. If two Slovenian brewers were united at the time, and their owner would become some kind of strategy, i.e. a company that knows beer and is interested in the further development of these companies, then Laško today would not be in the situation he is in. That's how the company deals with everything else, just not beer. What was core business of this company was the least important, everything else was more important: politics, media, evening, work, Mercator, all alive. And today, we have a company that can produce and sell beer beautifully, but it has to deal with how it's going to pay off and deinvest. But I don't want to go too far. In short, the facts have shown that these companies are managed poorly, uneconomically, and the law that we are adopting today is one of the medicines and one of the measures to improve the business of these companies, but the final and true medicine is, of course, privatisation.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u67	Dr. Ljubica Jelusic has the word. Mr Ivan Hršak, mag. Ivan Vogrin and Mr Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u68	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Nice hello to you all! I support the proposed additions to the Public Information Access Act. I think it has been a time for companies that are under the dominant state influence, either at the level of the State or at the level of the municipalities, to make their data available, as public authorities must, and as public authorities must make it clear that data, such as contracts, must be made available whenever in the history of this State authority, so it must be clear to these entities that at any time in its history some authorship, donor, sponsoring and other contracts have been made available to the public. If, from what is now written in these supplements, this is not clear, or if we think that practice alone will make this very clear, Minister, then I suggest that, as long as there is still time, we also accept what is complementary in this regard. It is said that it will be very clear that it is not a question of retroactivity of this law, but that all data from the history of all these business entities, whenever they are created, are publicly available. As regards some of the criticisms that have been heard in the public, some criticise the question of another type of retroactivity, even when they are privatised, that these business entities should be able to provide information on their business for five years. I think that these critics should be very clear that paragraph 4 – I think this is article 1 – is very clear about this. It refers to information of a public nature that occurred at a time when such an undertaking or a business entity was under the dominant influence of a State or a person governed by public law. So it is clear that for another five years it is also mandatory to report on the things that happened to them when they were owned by the State or either by the majority or by the state. However, I would point out that we cannot generalise all state-owned enterprises and manage that some are well-managed, that the management of these companies is also such that it generates profits, including for the country or for those owners who are public-law persons. We have had the opportunity as a parliamentary group to meet recently one such company, Letrika in Šempetr near Gorica, for whom it would be difficult to use the labels, that it is poorly managed, that it does not have real corporate governance and so on. I think it's a company that should even be followed. But it is true that such companies, which are well-managed, which create profits that open up new markets, break into the world, will be the first available for privatisation, because strategic partners are interested in well-run companies, not for poorly run businesses, and we will, even if we continue with the concept of privatisation, very quickly come to clean, which of the state-run companies were poorly run. 'Cause nobody's gonna want to buy those. I also do not agree that if this privatisation had already been done in the past, we would now have enough money for other public needs. That money would have been spent on other businesses in the past, and today we would still be looking for money to patch public roads or bridges. So we can't create a illusion about this. There was some talk on the issue of transitional provisions, namely that they did not allow the law to enter into force until a few months later, and at that time the data that was now to become public were to be hidden. I would say that those data provided on the basis of the request are said to be that there is someone who has the need to conduct certain data, and I think that those data could become public immediately, because companies still need to manage all their data or all their business in some way and we need to be able to provide this information within the time limit that the public information officer has at his disposal. This is the same for the state authorities which, within the time limit laid down by the law, have to prepare a response to a request; and this could be the same for these companies. However, this is more likely to be difficult for those data that need to be published proactively, as it may take some time to prepare this information for publication because it needs to be found and put into proper form. Some who are now affected by this supplementation of the law say that the law will reduce their competitiveness on the market and some of you have already discussed it today. It is possible that there will indeed be reduced competition on the market. However, I think there will be another pressure on the part of the managers of these companies to try to become individuals of private law as soon as possible. So this law is essentially going to force greater and faster privatisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Hršak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! My opinion is that, of course, it is the last time for this law to be passed. However, I do not understand why some are so afraid of the adoption of this law. If everything was fine, then there are no problems, but the facts show that everything was not fine in this area. I think it's unacceptable that we can't access all this data in these companies. This is said to be the case, that taxpayers who pay for all these sins cannot obtain data on salaries, on donor contracts, on advisory contracts and on all other matters. Like banks. For example, I'm also a member of the Investigative Commission for Abuses in the Banking System. In fact, we are all disappointed that this investigative commission has so far been unable to obtain absolutely no data from the banks, and our biggest disappointment was that the higher court has also not accepted our role in obtaining data on which then the investigative commission can operate. Now it is our hope that this law will be established by this law and that we will obtain this information and then we will be able to work normally. When we called the investigative committee about the abuse in the banking system, it was half infertile work, since we could ask these Witnesses in general. We could not specifically ask questions about any matter because we do not have any data. This is unacceptable from our point of view and from the point of view of taxpayers, and I think it is time for this law to be passed. I have no doubt that this will happen and that all of this will finally be transparent. If this action were already transparent and those data were available to the public, taxpayers, I am sure that these abuses would not occur. So I hope that this will contribute to this transparency and that all these frauds and abuses will no longer occur in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Ivan Vogrin, whom I see is now not in the hall. Therefore, Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor, followed by Mr Ivan Simčič, then Mr Janez Ribič and then Mr Matjaž Zanoškar. Here you go, Mr. Frangezh.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u72	Minister, first of all, a few words about a subject that we'll probably never agree on. The brewery Laško did not get into trouble because it successfully bought the Brewery Union and the Brewery Union against the hostile takeover of the Belgian brewery, but because a few years later the brewery Laško went into a Taiwanation project when the management tried to take over it, by pawning the shares of the company and by financing the purchase of this property through loans to state banks, because the policy allowed this process to happen because the policy at the same brewery Laško sold it to Vecer and the work of Mercator, and not because the two brewers, together with the important work of the Slovenian brewery industry in the beginning of this millennium, merged. If we have a problem with a knee injury, it is not a prescription prescribed by your doctor to cut off your leg, but he will try to heal this wound so that this wound heals as soon as possible and that the knee will fit for his task. And that is that you will be able to walk, run, compete normally. It's exactly the same with state-owned companies. I agree that one of the miracle recipes is how to break corruption in state-owned companies, including privatisation. But it's not the only recipe, because this recipe is the same as cutting off your leg because of a knee injury. However, you can decide to increase transparency, increase efficiency and, above all, exercise the responsibilities of supervisors, representatives of the state in the supervisory boards, ensure that these companies are effective and strengthen their competitive position on the market. So there's no miracle recipe. I agree with your commitment to ensuring transparency in the management of state property, including in the transparency of certain business data involving state-owned enterprises. However, I do not agree with the fact that, under the populist flag of the break of corruption, privatisation is the only salvation because I think that a small nation such as Slovenia must protect its strategic interests not only as a state but also as an important economic actor. We have examples of state-owned companies, but they are exemplary companies that sell their products very efficiently and successfully not only on the domestic, but also on the competitive, global market. My colleague Ljubica first presented the case of Letrica, and I fully agree with her, as well as the case of Krka, another company. These are companies that have not only managed to create an overly competitive position in the Slovenian swamp, but also on a global scale pose a problem and a competitive obstacle to some of the major global players. Let's just look at Lettrica and her relationship with the great Bosch – who do you think is the first interested in purchasing Letrica? Bosch, her key and main competitor! Let's not forget that today Letrika is the company that incorporates Slovenian knowledge and innovation into prestigious vehicle brands, these are electric engines. As far as increasing transparency is concerned, I fully agree with the intention. In the case of an economy, however, the State must no longer act as an elephant in a porcelain trade, that it is necessary to be moderate in expectations and prudent in its conduct. I agree that the essential elements of all business should be disclosed to the undertakings in which public property is involved. At the same time, it thinks that it is also necessary to protect information that could make the company's competitive situation worse. Yesterday's public tribunal, organised by one consulting company, presented quite a few cases of such legal transactions, which, for example, would significantly worsen the competitive position of Insurance Company Triglav as a public-owned company. Let's say that this is a matter of reinsurance law, the right conditions are for the insurance company to re-insurance the subject of its insurance. Many other similar cases are and in these matters it is important to note that companies will also have the opportunity to provide certain information as their business secret in these cases. However, I agree with the fact that information on this, on advisory contracts, on pear services, on the company's donations are presented in a transparent manner. I do not forget this when we often like the results of Slovenian athletes, that this success is not only based on the relatively modest investment of public money in sport and recreation, the construction of public facilities for exercise or, if you want, ski flights. To a large extent, the success of Slovenian sport – from football, to basketball or to Nordic disciplines – is based on the support of the Slovenian economy; both the private one who sees the opportunity for their own promotion, as well as the state-owned companies, which provide important support for the success of Slovenian sport, culture and other activities. Therefore, I ask that by trying to make these activities transparent – and in my opinion they are to a large extent transparent already today because we can also see on the uniforms of Slovenian Olympics the logos of Slovenian companies – let us not criminalise donations and sponsorships, of which there is an important part of our social fabric, the essence of this community that actually makes us a nation and rightly works proud. As regards the increase and disclosure of information in this banking segment, I must admit that I do not see the difference between the bad investment transferred to the Bank's Claims Management Company and the poor investment that has stuck untransferably to a business bank. In one case or another, public money has been used to either pay for the transfer of a bad investment or recapitalise the business bank in order to keep fit in the face of future challenges so that it has appropriate capital adequacy. In one case or another, there has been an engagement of public money, and in fact, I do not think the definition of loans under D and E is the most appropriate. I think that in this country we have understood what bad investments are, how late the payoff must be, and in these cases I myself agree that the essential elements of such a deal must be disclosed. Moreover, it is not to be forgotten that bad investments are not only a product of negligence, poor management, lack of transparency, insufficient prudent business decisions in banks, but that poor investments are also a product of the economic cycle of business accidents and that too certain debtors today are only a product in the chain of previously contested decisions. An entity that is solely indebted to a bank may also be obliged to do so because it has only not received adequate works paid. Therefore, let us not criminalise this work too much, but let us understand that Slovenia has been hit by the global economic crisis, that we have clearly responded to the problems too late and too slow and that today Slovenia is so much larger. I am convinced that crime, negligence and, last but not least, what is called a thirst between politics and the economy, but to a much lesser extent than we would like to imagine it in this country. We must understand that we are part of a connected world and that the identical problems facing Slovenia are, in fact, often sooner and more effective, the whole society on the Western Hemisphere. I will support the law, even if I share sympathy with some amendments from coalition partners that have not been previously coordinated, and I will think more about their support. I suggest, however, that we do not bring miraculous solutions into this debate, because, as it has been shown so far, what new political inventions just before the elections that have waved magic sticks do not have these magic sticks, and that the results that we all want together need to be worked hard and not represent simplified slogans in order to get out of trouble.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič has the floor, followed by Mr Matjaž Zanoškar, to be prepared, then Mr Tomaž Lisec and Mrs Marija Plevčak. Here you go, Mr. Fish.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. I have to say, I'm kind of worried again. As important a topic as it is today in the National Assembly; the subject that we can somehow come from this crisis is so few present and left and right politicians! Mr. Meh says a lot of people might be shaking their pants. I'm joining in. So I think it's a good idea that we're talking about these things, that we somehow want to come up with things on the clear and welcome the subject that we're talking about here today. Today we are considering a law that is much more important than it seems at first sight. Why is this so much more important? Because there is currently one of the largest nationalisations in history. The country has practically supported the three largest banks in Slovenia, while in parallel with the Company for Bank Claims Management there is the recovery of bad debts or bad debts. A few billion euros have been invested in all of this. Do we even know what that is? Do we even know what these few billion would mean if we could reduce the burden on our economy? If we spent a few billion differently, would we still be in crisis today? Would you still be in crisis today? Would there be another 130 thousand unemployed, with a growing number? Probably not. Probably not. But we had to put more than €3.5 billion in banks, and today some still argue that despite all this money, people should not know what is going on in these banks. Your Honor, we're not serious! What kind of business secret? What kind of bank secrecy in banks where we throw billions? In a system that has brutally exploited this law on confidentiality by damaging citizens and citizens of this country, and now that unpaid credits are signed or transferred to the shoulders of taxpayers through the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, now their citizens, and us Members of the Slovenian People's Party, some believe that all of this must remain hidden! That people should not have information about these credits, which we know that many of them have been given to beautiful eyes, contractually, by telephone calls, by exploiting influence, connections and knowledge! Attention, I am not talking about the new operations of these banks, on current business; we are talking about the existing irregularities hidden in the balance sheets of these banks, which we are today as a country where we are; which is why the former directors of these banks are with us, Members, playing hide-and-seeks and telling us that they are not responsible for these billions of holes, while they have shared many and many rewards. That is why we have been very fond of this law in the Slovenian People's Party, which ensures greater transparency in all areas, not only in banking. Why do we think it's right? Because, unfortunately, where matters do not need to be made public, they always happen incorrectly in our country; whether they are the salaries of certain people, the rewards paid, the agreed financing or the financing of corruption risk. It's just that if there's something hidden, then the money runs through these channels, and that's why we have more or less impoverished companies today with rare exceptions. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have also recently called for an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Finance and warned that the behaviour of state banks and also these companies for the management of claims is unacceptable; that they cannot afford further shelters because they answer to citizens and they pay them. Therefore, full transparency and openness are required as well as open explanations for any major decision. These irregularities have been pointed out both by the Commission to prevent corruption and by the Information Commissioner. Today or when we vote, we can fix this with amendments. With this law, of course, if solutions are adopted in all the amendments and not only a narrow coalition package, things will become more open and transparent at least for the back. Even for those bad loans that could be thrown inside banks under carpets and I have the feeling that a lot of people are afraid of this disclosure, a lot of people are afraid of the announcement that they were taking cover without cover, without insurance. It is therefore a great pressure on the policy not to accept this. But today I can say that in the Slovenian People's Party we will support all amendments, including those from the National Gazette, which go towards greater transparency and provide a basis for continuing investigations into irregularities in the banking system. Your Honor! These are measures to improve the situation in our country, not to rent new and new loans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Hello, Minister, Secretary of State! It was so clear that Positive Slovenia supports the amendment of the Law on Access to Public Information. It has also been made clear that this is actually the first government that has taken the issue seriously and has begun to draw up legislation in such a way that corruption risks are as low or as few as possible. The answer is likely in that some governments or some political parties had an interest in fishing in mud, particularly when it comes to the operation of state-owned enterprises, public institutions, etc., from which some political parties also used their money to function their customers. Not to mention the awards, not to mention the recruitments where some of the political rules were in place; not to mention the dismissals and all the other things that were fantastic outlets from state firms, that they were in one way or another, either a person or a political party to recover or assist in their business. That is why the Positive Slovenia, which is a young party and is not burdened with such things, is the one who strongly supports this amendment, the amendment of this law, in order to introduce greater transparency, and not least to extend the circle of commitment to the provision of information of a public nature. This means that corruption risks in a wide range of areas will be largely prevented. Of course, there are probably several differences in the continuation when it comes to the resolution of the banking system when it comes to the recapitalisation of our banking system. We know that Slovenia has invested quite a lot of money to rehabilitate the banking system and we understand the expertise in some way. We also understand the Bank of Slovenia, which in some of the amendments, in some of the ambitions to extend the circle of public information to the opening of credit cards or credit maps, particularly in areas D and E, which do not go to DUBT, we believe that it would be right to listen to the professions and the Bank of Slovenia. It is also likely that there is some information of national interest, the interest of the State. So if we open up this information – it's not about what was said to be a cover-up, it's not about what we're hiding, it's about fully protecting national interest. And if the national interest is that the operation of banks is in such a way that we do not disclose some information, which would be bad for the further regulation of the banking system, which would be bad for potential investors and those who would buy some credits, then it would be right to listen to it in this way to the Slovenian Bank, the Bank of Slovenia and the professions. Of course there are desires, ambitions are that today the country has spread across the whole area, in this banking sector. However, we must not forget that the country has recapitalised the banking system in three Slovenian banks and that if we disclose some credit data we open credit maps, we give a lot of opportunity and opportunity to those banks that are not yet in Slovenia and are not in state ownership, so that they can do better in some way or to decide on business decisions. It's all about that. It's not about hiding anything, it's about protecting the business interest of the banking system. In this context, I think that some amendments from coalition parties to which we have not yet identified have also been tabled, not harmonised, but would certainly have to be heard here by the Bank of Slovenia and the professional public about how much this disclosure can help to further operate or how much and to what extent this business interest of banking should be protected, the operation of banks in order not to have this recapitalisation, the billions that the State has already invested in the resolution of the banking system, have been completely eliminated and would not have had the result that I wish to have. Once again, we are not afraid to open up the hidden – we are not afraid of this, but it is only about the interest of protecting national, national, national interest in the sense that certain elements or other mechanisms of protection are in place here and that they are maintained. Next, however, it is likely that we will make special decisions about such and similar amendments. Above all, on the basis of the opinion of the profession and also on the basis of the opinion of the Bank of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor, but before that, I would like to tell you what the debaters are up to, according to a few reviews. After that, Mrs Marija Plevčak, whom I can see is not currently in the Chamber, nor is Mr Franz Pukšič and Mr Jožef Horvat, followed by Mrs Maša Kociper and then Mrs Ljudmila Novak. Mr. Tomaž Lisec now has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u78	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I agree with myself, I think most of the debaters have said that the direction of the law is right, public, transparency and so on. But first, perhaps rhetorically, the question – does the public already guarantee transparency? In my opinion we can only partially agree, but not entirely, because in Slovenia we are a strange unikam, where theory is always one thing, and then unfortunately practice, many times and in the wrong direction, freaks. And more; one can be the words, including the words of us Members today, and the other is the practice, which will also appear on the basis of these articles of this law. Sometimes I wonder if the minister is an idealist or maybe just a populism on the other hand. Minister, it seems to me that, at times, it does not depart from its decisions, and this stubbornness is in the many laws that we have dealt with from his field in this mandate, he has already stumbled upon quite a slippery ground, especially in the sense that, as I said before, one is a theory, one practice; one is words, another acts. If he is an idealist, I agree with him, but I warn him that even being liked is nice, but sometimes dangerous, but above all, the provisions of this law will also further show that despite all the amendments adopted, the law is likely to experience in practice not only a number of criticism, but also a number of jurisdictions, despite all the good intentions of this law. There was some talk today about the time we were living in. There was also talk of a bad bank, state property, sales or sale. One of us is leaning towards privatisation, one of which is still based on national interest. Perhaps both extremes are not ideal, but they are probably both dangerous. Personally, I have nothing to do with the fact that all state assets, wherever the state has any ownership share from the smallest to the largest, sale, but here we can encounter a major problem that I have already discussed in previous treatment, and today I will repeat, as regards the issue of Slovenian sport, culture or any other area where, when companies close or close down the financing tent, they can gradually destroy Slovenian sport. As I have already said, despite this report that we have before us and despite these amendments, I still think that there are certain shortcomings or details in the law that probably do not withstand the theoretical concept of the law, but also, above all, practical. Most of all, it bothers me that we're divorcing again. The last time we met was at the Forest Act, where we worked for private forests and left the states alone. Here we are turning the story around and dealing only with state-owned companies and their public and transparency, and on the other hand we are still talking about leaving private companies behind, and there is everything O.K. This morning I read one of the Slovenian newspapers, and I must say that in this article all the arguments are "for" and "against". I cannot fully agree with any of these, but in my opinion certain words of certain important people, not politicians, are certain, but those of us who, politicians, want to convince us how we must decide, a very dangerous case, Mr. from the Anti-Corruption Commission: 'The level of governance is in these societies', that is, in national societies," is so low that surveillance needs to be strengthened." He adds: "Leaders in state-owned enterprises do not know the concept of responsibility." Your Honor, someone from the State Service is saying that "the leaders in state-owned enterprises don't know the concept of responsibility." The heads of state administrations or public services also do not know responsibility. Did anyone get hurt? Nothing. Here we come from this point of view, and all managers, especially those in the state-owned companies we are talking about today, do not know the concept of responsibility. In my opinion, it is an extremely dangerous word game and I do not agree with it at all. On the other hand, I strongly agree with certain people, particularly from the economy, who say that if there is already a desire for greater transparency, the data should be disclosed, including for non-State-owned companies. Minister, when we get this straight, then we can say we're working orderly and we're working orderly for everyone. I think the director of the Slovenian Indemnity Society said most correctly: "The law stands on suspicions that are offensive, that all managers are thieves and we have incompetent representatives of law enforcement and control." We can work, we agree on control, but I believe that this law will not help her as much as we would like. Many times there is a talk in the National Assembly on the responsibility of each individual in any function: whether it is a minister, or an MP, or a state official, or an official in local self-government, or a purely ordinary craftsman or a member of the Supervisory Board of any economic society. To conclude perhaps with this: it is a great illusion if the state thinks it will achieve transparency with the public. As I said before to the public, transparency Maybe then the question for the minister and the secretary of state – do you think that these are two words that we can also put together? [[…]] Why do I think that the law will not have that effect, which I think we are only following mostly – perhaps unfortunately some with a fig pocket, or today they do not hope to speak, or they will vehemently say how best this law is, what has happened, how this government has started to solve corruption and so on. On the other hand, it is probably such gentlemen and ladies who get the most calls about what is happening in state-owned companies. In short, just look at the fines at the end of this law – they're funny, they're funny low! Look at what we adopted in this year, in this government, fines on individual laws, where we came from at the beginning of 50, 60 thousand euros, 30,000 euros for some transport of wood. Here we are talking about fines, 300 euros, 500 euros, 800 euros. Please! So many millions of euros we're talking about in state-owned companies, and then we're talking about this kind of fine?Oh, my God! If you think such fines will solve those exceptions that do not work according to some public and transparency, then we are probably all very wrong. In short, I think there are bad exceptions in the Slovenian economy of state companies, but because of these bad exceptions we must not generalise and come out of the concept that some probably advocate, as has been heard today: they are all bad and we will make this law only good. It's a mistake! If I were to get away with it: everyone is good, and the bad are to be punished, we would have had a real marriage. Otherwise, certain amendments to the coalition based on the Law and Law Service as well as us, in the opposition, as well as colleagues in the Civil Gazette resolve certain issues, at least this is a liberal concept, which is obviously still deadly for some, or some purely practical solutions. I think that, above all, the amendments of my colleagues from the National Gazette are going in the right direction to listen to the profession or to a certain part of the public, and I will support them myself. Before one of the previous discussions, I myself expressed my concern when, from one, I think, Article 8 omitted when public interest is and when it can be overcome with the interests of others. And that was released, and by that time, I had warned the minister or representative of the government that we were playing with dangerous weapons. Public interest — yes; when and by whom and in what way it can be exceeded is not precisely defined in this law. Now maybe a phrase or two about what I was talking about the last time, and I have to say that I got quite a few hard sentences from my coalition colleagues, especially those who are engaged in or engaged in high-end sports. This law threatens Slovenian sport – probably culture or some other segment, that I will not be wrong – with what I agree with Mr Matthew Frange and what I have been talking about the last time. We can give Slovenian sport this law, not a mortal wound, but a great wound. Just look at Slovenian sports events that also take place in the world, let them be jumps in Planica, Maribor, Kranjska Gora. Which logo is the biggest, which balloons are the biggest? State-owned companies! And that's what I was talking about. If we privatize everything, I believe that foreign owners are probably "down hangs", whether it's Planica, whether it's Kranjska Gora or any other sports venue. Above all, I am afraid: I now know that, mainly with the help of state-owned companies, they are solving the activities of individual sports industries, whether it is a football association, a handball association, volleyball or some other Nordic discipline, where the system is so seductive that individual presidents of individual umbrella organisations have called the director of each state-owned company and told him that if he does not contribute EUR 100,200,000, we can slowly shut down the handball, football or basketball or other associations. Not only national trade unions, but also local ones. Last time I talked about the case, I'm going to borrow – what's going to happen in Primorsk if, say, Luka Koper gives the footballers 20,000 euros, some, I don't know, but I'm handballing 50,000 euros? They'll argue with each other about why someone got more or less, and then we'll ask ourselves, especially with the help of the media, whether this CEO is in favor of either a handball or football, or whether it's his personal whims, or whether it's his political whims, where the president of the football club is unfavorable and handball and so on. This director of this state company will ask himself, "So why the hell am I financing this? I'd have the best peace if I hadn't financed anything and everyone would have even applauded me. They'd say the lock, it's transparent, it's public, it doesn't give anyone anything, it's certainly clean, and it doesn't want to offend anyone." This will give us a variety of media stories about how a director, who may also want to be politically replaced, helps some sports, cultural, tourist society or organisation. Even if there are some marginal amounts in a local area, 200, 500 euros for a society that has cooperated with a state company on such or other occasions. In short, it can be very negative in practice for Slovenian sport, culture and certain other segments. However, this law can be positive in the segment, which we are not talking about in this law, and this is media funding. Finally, we will be able to pour clean wine, who and how they sponsor individual media houses. Let this open and then we can really talk publicly about why the policy of each state-owned enterprise is what it is or how this policy is implemented through media records. But the problem is, whether we're talking about the media or sports or the culture, they're probably going to find a way to make some kind of detour, and this story that we're going to be following in our heads, and we think is real, in practice or in life, unfortunately, a little blur. Personally, I also think that this law is wrong because we throw consulting contracts, copyright contracts, sponsoring contracts, donor contracts into the same basket. In short, whatever the contract is, it is considered by the applicants to be weak and should be reviewed by the public in order to be bitten by the media, possibly sometimes even for political times of the day. I told you at the last reading, we have one problem. Here we are talking about state-owned companies, and we all know – and you will probably also be able to agree – that everyone in your municipal budget or you had or have a certain share of the funds that they spend on individual societies, and in particular they put them in good shape. And that's where the local elections are bought, when it can be because a president of a local society is an exemplary political associate of an individual mayor, or when it's said, "Oh, dear Lord, there's no money for you," it's based on the fact that he's probably not politically compatible with the mayor. That's where we should make order if we're making order everywhere. In short, about the amendments maybe a little later. I say, we will support the amendments both for us, for the opposition and for the amendments of colleagues from the National List, where there is a very interesting fact. The Minister, who comes from the National List, supports the amendments of the National List and, on the other hand, has problems in supporting or not supporting the amendments of the coalition – but we know; the Minister is not without a coalition. When we have transitional provisions, I have little fear that in these difficult times for the economy, whether it is private or state, a certain part of these state companies will have to deal with themselves for some time when they should bring all this on the table. But the question is, will they have the courage to bring everything to the table? But it's the same as that debate about archives, whether it closes or opens. In short, certain segments of these state services will deal with themselves. Perhaps, to conclude, two more sentences on corruption and competitiveness. There's been a lot of talk about how we're giving this law a rate of corruption and how people think state-owned companies are corrupt. Yeah, people think they're corrupt. But I wonder how many of these people who have been questioned have ever worked anywhere in state-owned companies. And that's what I was talking about before: we come from a wrong concept in this law, but solutions, I hope we're all following the same. I say to myself that everyone is good, but those exceptions that are bad must be sanctioned. And not the opposite: they're all bad, but they'll be good somehow. In short, this is more about corruption: she said – she showed. But it sounds good, and probably the minister and the government have won a lot of positive points in the public eye, according to what most come from – all the directors in state companies are bad. With regard to competitiveness, I will not put 100% of my trust in managers in state-owned enterprises, but probably many of them only know what they are doing and that they will have not only a problem with their operation but also a problem with their cooperation, especially here, when we hit state and private on the other hand. Just look at the insurance companies, what happens or what might happen. On the other hand, we have a rather fresh case in the area of banks; whether it is state or private — if it is bad, it is bad. And we can save private banks here, sometimes we save state banks, but all of this is so little sizable: here we take one piece, there we take one piece and the third time we take one piece. Instead of saying, "Whoever is good, let him who is bad do what is not important, he must be forbidden to do what he does." In short, I will probably support the law myself, even though I do not think that practice will withstand even the best intentions of theory or articles, and above all I hope that those who vote for the law today will not vote with a fig in their pocket and do exactly the opposite, as well as the good provisions of this law foresee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Franz Puksič, whom I see is not currently in the Chamber. That is why Mrs Ludmila Novak is coming, please prepare for her, Mrs Maša Kociper, Mr Jožef Horvat, Mr Franz Jurša and then Master Majda Potrate. Here you go, Mrs. Novakova.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. Transparency is certainly necessary, unfortunately we have too little experience, so we must adopt such laws. Most state-owned companies manage our money, so it is also right to know where that amount of money or money is going, which is intended for special needs such as donations, sponsorship, support for various sports and so on. We have a right to know, unfortunately, that's being used too often, so we need such a law. State-owned companies are unfortunately too often a spoil of politics, and we also need this law, so that politics cannot afford money in its own way, which is our common property or with companies that are our common property. Unfortunately, most of the time we only hear about those entrepreneurs or those who mismanagement government assets. I am sure and I know and I know also those who are responsible for the management of state-owned enterprises. However, New Slovenia-Christian Democrats think and we are convinced that owners are most responsible for their assets, so it is necessary that the country sells state-owned companies to get responsible owners who will manage businesses responsiblely, create jobs, pay taxes, of course, which will not be too high to pay them to create new jobs to pay for them. However, we need something else in Slovenia: I say that the law on responsible conduct in all places, in all jobs, in all positions, at every moment, because we have run out of this very responsible conduct, so we are facing such great problems. We have heard about the funding, and I myself have been a mayor for some time, and I know that the funding in the municipal budget is quite limited and that the mayors must also make it very transparent. I also support sport, and I know that such means are also important and necessary for the success of athletes, although I believe that the main task is to support the country's top sport, and that other owners of companies, other citizens also support these top achievements. However, state-owned companies cannot simply allocate these funds, according to sympathy, and transparency is also needed here. We support the law because we want all of us to act responsibly, transparently together. However, I hope that those who always find holes do not look for where the holes in this law are, because then new laws are always unnecessary, we complicate our lives, so that I hope that these holes are as small as possible and that this law will really help to make public money more transparent.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State Mag asked for the floor. Renata Zatler.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. Given that a number of concerns have been raised mainly in the area of the economy or the issue of the competitiveness of state-owned enterprises and, in particular, of companies under the dominant influence of the state or local community, I would like to point out two important issues in particular. I myself attended a round table yesterday, where we discussed possible problems that could arise from the discovery of advisory contracts, particularly in the field of the operation of companies operating on the market, such as, say, Telekom and so on. I have specifically pointed out that here, when we talk about proactive transparency, we are talking only about three data that will be proactively public. This is the information about the partner, it is said about the recipient of a payment order, then this amount and, of course, the subject of the contract, which is the basis for the payment. The subject can be very brief counseling, of course person on the other hand, physical or legal, and amount. We ourselves consider, in view of the assessment we have all made together, together with the Information Commissioner, the Anti-Corruption Commission and other colleagues from the Ministry of Finance, with which we have coordinated the text of the law, that these three data must not and cannot jeopardise the competitive position of these companies on the market. Everything else, the Treaty, the Advisory Treaty, not to mention donors or sponsors who were not at all debated yesterday, we all agree in principle that it is time to make them public, that they are transparent, but that in the advisory contracts it is necessary to stress in particular that an exception to business secrecy can be applied. This means that the Law on Access to Public Information is fully applicable as an exception to Article 6 also to all those undertakings which will be new entrants. Of course, it will be possible for that person requiring this information under the Advisory Treaty to complain that it is a certain business secret and that the information is not disclosed by that company, but then this complaint with the information officer may also go on to a constitutional dispute or the court will consider the matter if the case is considered to be such a business secret so that the contract is not opened. So, there are guards, they're so-called way out that certain business secrets are covered up. These basic three data will already be made public on the basis of the 2011 AUKN recommendations, when it has already been somehow clearly written down by this agency, that certain data must be published more transparently or proactively. In particular, it has been explicitly written by this Agency in order to publish information on sponsorship, donor and, in particular, advisory contracts. Thus, we have not invented anything new in this recommendation; we have followed the recommendations already made. However, it is estimated that this publication or pro-active transparency has a pre-emptive effect. The preventive effect in this direction, in any event, will improve the operations of these companies, companies that are in our common ownership; it is said that the efficiency of these companies will be increased, since, above all, those who enter into contracts will be more responsibly involved in contractual relations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u84	Thank you very much. As part of the government coalition in Positive Slovenia, we have been very actively supporting this law, not just this law, but all efforts to fight corruption. I think we can see that we are very serious about this now. Of course, things in this area cannot be changed from today to tomorrow. Many research assessing corruption in Slovenia has been based on recent years, according to the perception of people, managers and everyone else in recent years. However, I think that all the measures taken by this government over the past year in various areas, both to reduce corruption, to reduce work in black and so on, show that we are very serious and are already showing up in practice. In this way, all those who have given so much attention to the KPK report and the 15 KPK proposals on how to fight corruption might draw attention to the following fact. In fact, when the KPC stepped down and issued its 15 recommendations, virtually all civil society, all the media and so on launched a huge shouting and shouting and weeks and weeks of hearing about what needs to be done, why it has not yet been done and so on. And that is largely true of those who, in the last year ahead of us or many years before their rule, would have had the opportunity to do the same. However, there was much less publication concerning the decisions of the Government which were adopted at the end of February. I have before me this document, these are the conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the Programme of Action of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the Prevention, Detection and Persecution of Corruption, and then on how the Government of the Republic of Slovenia commits the departments to the enforcement and implementation of these decisions within the envisaged deadlines and requires reporting. This is because the Government has very specifically defined itself in this document up to all fifteen KPK requirements, by all fifteen, and whoever has looked at the document has actively supported each of these proposals. I think that we are in one proposal, additional inspections, the government's opinion that an additional inspection is not necessary and then proposes another measure. What I want to say is that the Government has explicitly said in each of these measures, in an official document to support it, said what has been done so far – and it has been done very much – what will be done to meet the proposed measures – some measures take a little longer to meet them – and also set clear deadlines when this will happen. Some of these measures have already been adopted, for example, a legislative trail that is now being published in accordance with the amended Rules of Procedure of the Government, which experts have participated in the drafting of legislation, and some of these numerous measures are such measures that are already practically in the final phase. One of these KPK measures proposed by the KPK and supported by the Government is, of course, the amendment of the Law on Access to Public Information, which we are talking about today, and also here the Government notes that the proposal currently under consideration in the National Assembly is such that it includes virtually all the proposed solutions proposed by the KPK. So I think that on the basis of this document and all we can see lately, the government seems to be serious and that Positive Slovenia is serious and that I therefore reject the various stupid hints of some that the coalition is not serious or that it is misleading or something else. Those who have had — and this is a constant surprise to me — have in the past the possibility that such harmful practices, which make us adopt such legislation, would not change them. Now everyone here is smart and loud about how this law is urgently needed, but when it is not needed at all when they have the opportunity, they make sure that wrong practices do not occur. And that's what I can't and can't be surprised about in the National Assembly as a relatively new Member. As far as the law is concerned, we support it in Positive Slovenia. It ensures that the availability of state-owned and Community-owned business entities will be more efficient, accountable and legitimate, creates competitive market conditions for all those companies, including small and medium-sized companies that want to operate and corporateise state-owned companies on the market and create a healthy business environment, and it seeks to ensure greater transparency in the remuneration of managers in those companies and to ensure transparent staffing for the best individuals in those companies, in accordance with the experience required. So, now, as you can see, seriously, even at the normative level, the practice that has been in force for many years in this country and in which Positive Slovenia was unable to participate since it was not yet there. With regard to this law, experts point out that it is one of the most transparent, most open in the whole of the European Union. This is to some extent to be welcomed. Absolute transparency is what can also ensure greater transparency, greater legality, better governance of the country and also of state-owned enterprises, and there is no doubt for us in Positive Slovenia. But I'm going to start talking to myself now, personally, and I'm starting to worry, but in this national assembly, my government is also starting to think about measures that are not comparatively legally comparable, but are something new, some kind of invention of some warm water; and then it starts to worry me. I would like to, and I am also discussing that everyone, including those we have – I am sure most of us – are very cautious. Indeed, there are also ways in the world to ensure that companies work transparently and transparently, even if they are owned by the State or private sector. The fact that one of the colleagues pointed out, I forgot which one of them did not know the concept of responsibility at the level of governance in state-owned enterprises, is a fact. I think this is written in one of the newspapers today, but at the same time, the fact that in the capitalist world in Europe and America, they have long invented ways in which this responsibility in companies is exercised – through control councils. Corporate governance is an old thing, it's very clever, it's been working for centuries, and I don't want to be implementing some new practice with laws like this right now. This is because too much populism, too much of a desire to be liked, can sometimes lead not only to solutions that are not clever enough, but, more importantly, to unconstitutional solutions. In particular, this minister is known in his opinion to adopt the law first, and then we will see in the Constitutional Court whether he is constitutional or unconstitutional. As you can see, I advocate the concept that the National Assembly, as the legislator, will carefully judge whether there are elements to unconstitutionality. This is always not possible, especially when it comes to new solutions, but sometimes when practice exists it is possible. I am aware that the role of the Law-Legal Service is to draw attention to all the many problems, sometimes to many too many, just to ensure that the law will not be illegal, unconstitutional and so on. It is up to us or experts who are aware of these things to assess what comments are realistic that have a real basis, but it can come to them, which are the theoretical considerations of someone who deals with them. There are a lot of considerations here, including constitutional and practical ones. At the legislative level and also at the nomotechnical level, it is important that the Legislative and Legal Service points out that the actual scope of the amendment of this Act goes beyond the right almost to the extent of the law in force, so a new regulation would be more appropriate. I also think that this would be more nominally appropriate, especially because very new and revolutionary solutions are in place. The Legislature also points to certain nomological shortcomings of the law that are not so essential. The fact is that it also draws attention to possible violations of the principle of free economic initiative, in particular in terms of competitiveness and the principle of equality before the law. And that's something that the coalition has to be careful about. If we look at it at a practical level, we do not want to adopt legislation, but I am not saying that this is one that would put state-owned enterprises in a worse position than other companies have in terms of competitiveness and where they would be treated with negative inequalities before the law. That is why I would like to avoid being led by populism to take untested solutions that are unknown in the world. Then it's like jumping head in the sea and not knowing if they're under rock or jellyfish or hedgehogs. In short, some of the concerns in practice that have already been said and would not be listed today, including regarding the financing of sport, culture and other societies, of course to avoid insinuations of the media and others, why someone has financed this or that, because there is always a choice, the wise operator of the company will decide that the funds or distributions will be evenly divided, right to be fragmented or not given at all, and then warn our athletes, culturers and others that this can have different negative consequences. Even the economy over this law is not the most enthusiastic, they point to the specific problems arising from the principle of inequality before the law and, as a result, to specific problems due to possible less competitiveness, although some of these concerns have already been addressed by the State Secretary. I would only conclude with a debate on the banking sector. Once again, I stress that Positive Slovenia has actively supported all the solutions so far, in other readings and also some of the solutions now proposed in the form of amendments based on the recommendations of the Legislative and Legal Service. This law is one of the most open laws in Europe. Also in the field of banking operations, or more precisely, the Companies for the Management of Bank Claims – DUTB, there have already been several concerns from the section in the second reading on what public data can be. The arrangements adopted are extremely transparent, we are practically going to proactive transparency to publish all the essential credit data transferred to the DUTB on the website. Of course, this company will be absolutely committed to disclosing the data under this law as long as it is in the country's 100 % ownership. The problem arises now that the amendment's proposers also want to open credit maps, which are assessed by credit rating D and E, in banks, says not those that have been transferred, but those that have remained at state banks, particularly at NLB, Abank and so on. Here, however, I see the great problem that virtually all the professions in this area are strongly opposed to financial transactions. Last time I listened to Mr Mavek's arguments, which explained very precisely and justifiably why this could be controversial. He said that loans were being transferred to the DUTB under certain conditions, it is clear – Mrs Ramšak, can you please stop? [[…]] You'll get your word. You really bother me if you're always talking to me when I'm talking. Thank you very much He said that the loans were transferred under clear criteria approved by the Bank of Slovenia, approved by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and reviewed by the institutions of the European Union. [[…]] Thank God, once again, that we have had this review by the European Union, that we do not need to hear these observations, that some of the credits have been transferred and others have not, because interests are different. No! No! We have the highest institutions of the European Union, which are responsible for transferring credits under clearly defined criteria, as has been agreed in advance with the European Union and also on the basis of requirements. What the SDS Amendment and the opposition are talking about, as well as in part the amendment of the Civil Gazette, are credit maps marked with D and E which have remained in banks and which currently have this rating, with bankers pointing out that this assessment can also be changed to C or A. The Lady of the Bank of Slovenia has explained for more than half an hour the reason why it is an arrangement that has no place in the world. A review of the loans remaining at the bank, which, by the way, are slightly behind payment, but were estimated to have some potential. As someone has previously discussed, it can be a current poor business, it can be a current insolvency and so on. Those who have concerns and would like to see how individual companies that are in debt are doing business have the opportunity to turn to the APPES or the Supervisor and there will get all the necessary information on balance sheet status, income, account locks, all live. There is no reason why we should look at banks for transparency of business in legal matters. But it's a reason not to do it. Why did we, as a country, put $5 billion in banks if we are now taking measures that will stop companies and individuals from doing business with our banks? Because they prefer to go to the Bank of Hypo or any other Austrian, German or Italian bank, where they will be somewhat behind payment or have current liquidity problems secured from browsing, whether media, Members or anyone else. Bank secrecy makes one sense and applies worldwide: companies and individuals do not want the public to have information about their assets, about their credits, about their problems. Here I wonder if we have put this money in the banks for free, if we are now taking other measures to raise people's mistrust, whether their data will be classified or not. Some banks have already reported that the number of deposits in their banks is decreasing. If it is the interest of any of you that these banks fall apart as soon as possible and that we are going to privatisation totally in this area, then say so. Let's not hide behind such regulations! Let's face it, let's say we want everything to be private tomorrow, and we don't bother with legislation that works in this direction more secretly. In short, we support the law, the most transparent law in Europe. We hope that the effects will be positive, we hope that it will pass a constitutional judgment if, however, we believe that, at this point of populism, the long-term effects of some legislative changes are to be considered, and not then to pay large damages for wrong decisions, as is the case in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry, I welcome you! Of course, I am determined to operate transparently by economic operators owned by a country or owned by local communities. Who isn't? We have the Company Act, we have the precise definitions, powers and duties of individual organs of the company prescribed, we know exactly what are the tasks, responsibilities and duties of the administration, the supervisory councils – yes, especially the supervisory councils! Tell me, ladies and gentlemen, which of the members of the Supervisory Board has paid a fine in the entire self-sustainment history of the Republic of Slovenia or perhaps went to the rear. Nobody! I don't know any last name or name! This means that the operation of state-owned economic operators is either completely transparent or does not work. Where's the answer? The answer is two: the law does not work, we do not implement it, or we do not have a legal state. We do not have a rule of law whereby the Slovenian economy is easily cried out, privately owned and state owned. And I am very sorry – now I will start as a participant in the war for Slovenia – I am very sorry that corruption in Slovenia today has a national right, and this very large domestic right. I will be very happy if we can get on the table from Mr Virant once after our parliamentary vacations – I believe that there will be a minister – that I will be able to get the results of the operation of this law, which we are adopting today and will seem to receive very much support from Thursday's vote. It is important whether the laws work is not so important whether these texts of laws we adopt are so good, how they are implemented is important. I also have a problem here because in fact the coalition regarding this law is not harmonised and there are various signals sent by the coalition to Slovenia and also to the world. President of the Government in a New Year's Interview on Saturday's Annex on Public Publication of Credit Maps Data. I quote, "I'm sure everything can't be public. Last time I heard a gentleman from a bad bank, he said we could do harm to the state if we announced how much we wanted to get for a claim. And I don't want to end up being persecuted because we sold something at such a price, even though it could be higher. It is necessary to pay attention to what is public and what is not." End of quote. Mr Virant, Minister, in a way I can say the author of this law and the advocate of this revolutionary law, slightly different: everything will be published, everything will be transparent, everything will be on the website, the technology of publication has not actually been discussed. I am a member of the investigative parliamentary commission investigating responsible persons, holders of public functions, who have blamed the bank's hole, into which we have thrown huge billions of taxpayers' money, and today we have no guarantee that the new bank hole is no longer being created! I ask those responsible in the banks, and no one has given me a guarantee that the new bank hole is no longer being created. We asked for information from Banka Slovenije, a state-owned commercial bank, a higher court – and were rejected! You don't get it, you can't get anything in the name of bank secrecy. Of course, thank God, banking secrecy is the basic banking postulate on which banking is based at all. I'm also asking myself a question about the so-called Supervisor 2. We do not really have a precise picture of how this will work, I must welcome the Supervisor we have at our disposal and serve us with financial or more accurate payment transactions from 2003 to today. I wonder how we can look back, for example, at who he signed with, say, Telekom, various advisory contracts and sponsorship contracts and so on. Is it possible that Supervisor 2 will only work from the date of the law’s entry into force? It's too little for me! I also want back, at least ten years ago, then it will be some real solution, a contribution to greater transparency and the possibility of calling someone and sanctioning them for irresponsible performance. [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I am a little embarrassed by this because I cannot connect what was heard in the views of the groups of Members and then in many debates. It was clear from the views of the parliamentary groups that they were supporting the law that we were talking about today when we were listening to the debate, but it was sweeping over here with obvious evidence of how to hide some of the old, how to fear that there was no rule of law, even the underground, the mafia underground that would rule that country. I do not know if some who make such an easy accusation realize that our statements are reflected in the public and that each such debate has a certain effect. Remember before the stress tests, how did we detect deposit withdrawals or take money out of the bank and stuff like that? We're talking here like we're living in some kind of deaf box and everything that's said doesn't go public. Let me just say, we like to refer to the northern neighbours, but one of the banks in the northern neighbours has 19 billion deficits or a big bank hole that we're talking about. As a result, in the northern neighbour of the talk, a hole was covered by private funds and private banking institutions did not agree. Finally, it appears that banks will have to recapitalise – from what means? From public funds! Do you sense the same accessibility and openness in disclosing data in this neighborhood? No! No! This neighbour also stopped some other procedures within the European Union because it requires non-disclosure or bank access to data. I live in Maribor, from which, I can tell you, a lot of people will decide, they already have money invested in the northern neighbour, and now a lot of people are going to take money there. Are we even aware that all things, which are also well-meaning, are well-intentioned, have not only beneficial effects? Do we know how to predict everything? Today we are discussing the Act on Access to Public Information. My second pain in this law is that the National Legislative and Legal Service has drawn attention to what colleague Maša Kociper was talking about, the scope of the changes that this novelty brings. Well, at least we had a regular procedure. But, look, at the same time, there were warnings that the purpose of this law was to solve some of the things that actually belong to any other law. This is my torment because I would like to see you adopt laws that are systematically clean. Because we forgot something in another marriage or did not resolve it because we were in a hurry or someone else suggested it, we are now solving some of the things in this marriage. But because I have some problems with this law, I'm already automatically suspicious for a third reason. It seems very normal for us to have provisions in the transitional provisions that show that the law is enforceable. I don't just care if we take something, we say that it has to take effect right away, and then it turns out that it's impossible. It sounds very nice: let it take effect immediately. I've been going through the details of what things are like that and why they're bothering someone. Yes, because they are also linked to the establishment of registers and similar things, which are taking place. I do not want to remind you of how a law was passed in 2006 and how from then on we do not have a good register of established or accurate data, and then we get angry and are now afraid to adopt a law because we have no regulated data since 2006. It seems to me, however, that it is appropriate to expect Members and Members to weigh certain things — whether we are in coalition or opposition — with about the same vats and not to criminalize someone immediately if they have any thought. What should I think about those opposition Members who suddenly see and know something good about KPC? And a little while ago, in some situation, KPK is going to say something bad again. It will not be the first time that I will point out that I have no bad conscience about this; because what we think about the necessity of transparency, then we talk about transparency, because we have supported the AUKN all the time. And it has already been said that the AUKN was the one that demanded disclosure of the sponsoring, donor, advisory contracts. And I don't even think they're that problematic because who's going to give money as a sponsor if his logo doesn't appear on the uniform. Why, do you think, is there such a big difference between sponsoring and donor contributions to sports or culture that I don't say in science? Because on the piano we don't just hang a visible inscription that some sponsor helped buy it. I listened to the longtime director of Cankar's home, who said how new elites, in this case I mean economic elites, are no longer so open to donating and sponsoring cultural events and culture. But we are in the public interest, and we are in the national interest and we are in those things that we should ask a little more and more precisely! You know, when I mentioned science, I mentioned it because of the Minister's statement that it was scientifically proven and that there are studies of how it is privatised and privately more effective than the state. Well, I'm not so sure that this is true, because doctrines, including economic doctrines, are different, and because it would also be good to point out that what we sell is actually public; we leave it to the public in private. But we can only do this once, so it is impossible to think that such privatisation would have long lasting effects and that we should not have to think about other options. Yes, I am certainly not an advocate of privatisation all on average, and it seems to me that we should act here on the logic of a good master, wait for the right moment and sell off what may be missed. But I think my colleague, Ljubica Jelusic, has specifically said about the privatisation of which companies are interested and about the privatisation of which they are not. I only remember some privatisation, two years ago, maybe less or more, where whoever bought the company guaranteed that the job for the employee would remain. What did he do first? He fired 80 or 120 workers. So, just by the way, how things work out when we're in public. The business secret that some have so clearly seen, if we hide and hide it, has been clearly stated in the intervention of the Secretary of State: of course it is possible to refer to business secrecy, but there are also procedures for how business secrets can be objected to and how precisely two-step procedures have been carried out for how business secrecy is weighed from the point of view of public interest and may also be a withdrawn business secret. And there's only one other thing that comes to mind. The information officer, the KPK in resignation or the KPK Senate and the Minister had a very strong performance on this law, on access to information of a public nature. What seems essential to me is that we really know exactly what the public interest is. I'm only going to tell you on one occasion in the last few days how this can be a delicate thing. The Information Officer has achieved that the results of the graduation are publicly available, although there also the law on graduation talks about its own – let us let the law be broken and so on because these data should not be used for other purposes. The allegedly very professional procedure has classified schools according to the results of the NPZ and the graduation. This procedure, carried out by a private higher education body, has done exactly what the law on graduation does not allow. And how is that used now? That schools are already sorted out by how successful they were! What effects this will have on individual secondary and primary schools will show the future. I want to say that even the best intentions can be – public interest can be what we bet on, but also public interest cannot be absolute when it can be found that the effects of disclosing certain data are used in a way that is controversial. I wonder if anyone will be responsible for this kind of information. This is where my concerns go in this direction, whether we have taken into consideration enough concerns, or whether we have been prudent enough when we have thought about things. But I do know that anyone who raises any doubt may already be suspicious in the eyes of the public. But I wear a wing and my pants don't shake, and I hope to discuss it in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sonja Ramshak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u90	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! I am sorry, of course, that honourable Member Masha Kociper has left this Chamber, given that I have responded to some of her discussions. This is something common in developed parliamentary democracy, but obviously some of us want us to be completely silent in this Chamber and that every comment is also negative – Mrs. Potrata, I respect you and you have commented now. I am happy to accept your comments, but this does not interfere with my debate because I know what I want to say to the public. It would touch on some of the things that have been exposed in previous discussions. Above all, I must say that, given that in my position I have clearly expressed the support of the Slovenian Democratic Party for this law or that the Slovenian Democratic Party is all the time that we have discussed the proposed amendment both in public presentation and in other readings, that we have advocated that the amendment of this law actually takes place, that we respect certain transparency and, of course, the fight against corruption, although some wish to make it clear that this is not the case. However, today, after these discussions, when I see that not even the coalition within is harmonised – although I respect that the diversity of opinions is not taken negatively – the fact that the Positive Slovenia Group, in its debates, is saying that it supports the fight against corruption, that even when the coalition agreement is signed, high words have been said that it has a priority in the functioning of this government and the coalitions against corruption, and, on the other hand, Positive Slovenia does not support the proposed amendments of opposition parties and also the National Charter to the fact that it is not possible to disclose only bad loans transferred to the Banking Company, but that bad loans remain in state banks or banks that are being saved by tax money are also disclosed. This is essentially perversion and it is, not to say, hypocritical, to talk about supporting the fight against corruption and, on the other hand, allowing corruption. Why aren't all the credits that are classified as bad loans transferred to this company to the DUTB? I would like to know why certain loans have been made and which credits have not been transferred to which committee or company? I'll say it, and I'll make a case. We have recently heard in public that there has been a seizure of property to a private person because he owed, of course, NKMB, high amounts and also to the Tax Administration. This happened only two days earlier when his claims should have been transferred to a bad claims management company. Who decided that? On what grounds were his claims not transferred to the so-called Bank Claims Management Company? Why? Or perhaps because someone had an interest in buying this claim back — of course, I can suggest, but I want nothing wrong with it — because someone had an interest in buying it at a low price. Why? Because it may have political connections because it may have some other background, because it may be nepotism and so on. But when we talk about these things, you know, people feel who's actually trying to fight corruption. This is felt from the debates in this Chamber. If we have decided to transfer bad claims to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims and certain bad claims remain in banks that are recovering from tax money, including mine, including with the money of my children and my descendants, I want to know why. Why does debt arise, and why do we not have jobs and why is there no economic start-up?Oh, my God! Who stole this country? I want to know! Because as an MP, when I go to the bank and want credit, I have to provide such and such evidence, such insurance and such. Why are certain loans not adequately secured? No one will convince me that banks – of course, those in state ownership – can also lend bad loans. We know that someone could've just turned the phone down and got a loan, a million-dollar loan. An MP can't get if he doesn't have an insurance policy or a wedding or anything, because we have a limited mandate. Yeah, but who guarantees that a company has an unlimited mandate? Today, when we witness two bankruptcys happening daily – who can guarantee that today a company we cook in the stars is export-oriented, has high profits that tomorrow will not be in liquidation or bankruptcy? If the remaining bad loans are in non-transferable banks and such an undertaking does not pay contributions and taxes to the State or does not pay salaries to employees – such an undertaking must be disclosed! Also his bad loans, who approved his loans and so on. And who allowed, say, the purchase or sale of the thermals of the Roman Toplice for 8.5 million when we know that the country invested 50 million in these Roman terminities? Who has made the decision, and who is this bankruptcy manager who has allowed such a theft of social property or state property and property for all of us? Such a bankruptcy manager should never again perform such a function! These are all the things that we have always fought for in this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party that all bad credits must be disclosed – of course I am talking about Group D and E, so there will be no mistake. I don't care how private banks operate that don't recover from government money that the state doesn't owe. What Hypo Bank will do, which has a centre in Vienna or anywhere else, is the problem of someone other than Slovenia. But when we're saving Probanka and Factor Bank, that's when I'm interested. These owners paid off high dividends, received retirement and the like, while on the other hand people do not have for bread or milk. And here's the social state you're defending, and here's where the problems are solved! The social state is not that you give social support to someone, it's the social state that makes sure citizens have a decent life. I think that the debate on this law has gone in the right direction at all times to ensure the transparency and publicity of certain data. I also agree that all data cannot be disclosed. However, those who have a significant impact on Slovenia's situation today must be disclosed and accessible. It's illegal for the D.A. to demand data from banks, but he can't get it! That the courts are demanding information from banks, state banks, and they can't get this information! That's unacceptable! Of course, I also agree with those who have debated in the sense that fines are fines for those who do not publish or establish relevant records and must be punished. Here I would even mention that I also agree that perhaps the fines in this area are actually too low, because if we look at how high our fines are in other areas – this would also highlight the fact that only a week or a journalist points out that some statements or procedures of the authorising officer for illegal conduct may be subject to a penalty of EUR 11 000 600, and on the other hand, we are talking about extremely low fines. These are the things where perhaps later corrections can occur, because I think it is too late and there are also no appropriate amendments, but I hope that the coalition, in fact the part of the coalition that you do not support, will be exposed to bad loans that have not been transferred to a bad bank, will also be disclosed and that you will in fact move from words to acts that need to be pursued by corruption, nepotism, etc. I'll finish at this point. Even in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have already announced support, even if you do not support our amendment, we will support the amendment of the Civil Charter to Article 8, but of course we will end up deciding whether to give support to the law or not, given that obviously some want to cover in every way, who and in what way has received certain credits that burden Slovenia today, our banking, our state budget, which is why the country must also be in debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Now I'm asking if perhaps the representative of the government would like to have a word in this piece of work, in the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u92	Thank you. In view of the fact that fines have been imposed, I owe one explanation. Basically, the Act on Access to Public Information is aimed at punishing those responsible. This is just a rule of law that we have not been able to change in this novel. I agree that with the new amendment or with the proposed amendment to the law that will be the result of this new directive, which we have already discussed today, we will once again discuss or make a new regulation on punishment or on criminal provisions. Yes, indeed, with about €500 to €800, the responsible person is being punished. This can be repeated if it does not comply with all these provisions relating to the pro-active publication, such as donor, advisory and other contracts. However, this can be summed up if this occurs more than once, so that this amount for a natural person as such, i.e. either the directors or the management body, is not so low. However, as we say, we will review these sanctions provisions once again as we amend the law to a new one. In particular, I would like to highlight the question or answer two more questions. The supervisor will continue to apply. In fact, we can't put it back in place. Also this Supervisor, which is already, Supervisor 1 has been set up to move forward and it would be really disproportionate for companies to enter data ten years ago. Believe me, however, the principle of proportionality regarding the burden on businesses would be indeed violated. However, the rule is that this information is obtained on request, as is the rule of the Public Administration Information Access Act. As we say, it takes us some time for the supervisor to get this thing started, but, as we say, it's for the future. The Supervisor will include companies with 100% ownership: Telekom, Insurance Company Triglav, these will not be in the Supervisor. These companies are subject to the rule that information will be obtained on request, except for the few data relating to the donor, sponsoring and advisory contracts I have previously discussed. In addition to these contracts, it will be possible for a certain business secret to be established in certain cases – in particular, I am talking about advisory ones. In particular, I would like to stress this, as it was previously on my right that it was particularly exposed, that something was bad, that something was bad when we published something. I think there is a particular need for this place to be highlighted: we are establishing transparency. Certain data will be made public, but this certainly does not mean that they are poor. We don't prejudge any contract that it's bad. We just want the data to be transparent, that is to say, we want to know who someone is donating to, to whom someone is sponsoring.I still estimate that they will do so in the future; certainly perhaps a little more prudently, maybe they will assign a little more entities on the other hand, maybe not as much money as they have so far been, but the issue will probably be allocated or allocated according to certain criteria set by the supervisory boards and the system will be a little more transparent. But it doesn't mean that it's bad, that's why we want it to go to the website because it's bad. Not all bad credits, as we have said many times, are due to the fact that someone has acted corruptly in the back or that a crime has been committed because this loan has become bad. They're bad; they're, for a number of reasons. But we just want them to be transparent, and that doesn't mean they're bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u93	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate on the bill as a whole. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 3. 3. In 2014, I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the Civil Gazette and DeSUS. Does anyone want to discuss it? I don't see a desire to discuss it. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the Civil Gazette and DeSUS. Does anyone want to discuss it here? I don't see a desire to discuss it. We're moving on to Article 8. Since the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code to Article 8 under Article 2 is linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Articles 12, 21 and 26, we will discuss all amendments to this Article together. I therefore put to the debate Articles 8, 12, 21 and 26 and the amendments of the parliamentary groups of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the Slovenian People's Party and New Slovenia, the amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette and the amendments of the parliamentary groups of the Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the Civil Gazette and DeSUS. Now I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. I'll give you a chance to sign up. I'm asking you to sign up. We have three panellists reported. Mr Marko Pavlisic applied first.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. The essence of the amendment proposed by the National Gazette is that it expands its view of the bad credit maps from those maps that will be transferred to the bad bank, including those bad loans that are not transferred to the so-called bad bank for such and other reasons, says the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. Now, according to media information, there are still a lot of such credits, 20 to 25% of the loans in our largest bank. So we're talking about billions, we're still talking about billions of bad loans in these remaining banks. It is also right to find out what this is about, because citizens will not only cover the costs of those transferred to a bad bank, but also those who will remain at that bank, either indirectly or directly. Insinuation has also emerged in the public that certain data is to be hidden in a way that will not be transferred to a bad bank. This amendment solves it. It will not be possible to adopt this amendment, as proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code, if it does not transfer something to a bad bank, because it will undertake to disclose the data itself. It is no coincidence that our amendment, the amendment of the Civil Charter here in some way brings together the amendment of the coalition to this article and the amendment of the opposition to this article. The Citizens' List is a central party and we are always trying to bring together what is good in Slovenia. I would like to stress in particular that the data of those who fulfil their obligations correctly, whether savings or borrowers, natural or legal persons, will remain a bank secret. And that's right. Deposits are not subject to this law. As suggested here, this law will lead to deposits from Slovenia to Austria and this will have no consequences – this is not the case. This law of deposit leaves the deposit in peace and leaves all the loans that the borrowers have fulfilled their obligations as they have committed themselves to taking these loans. We must be aware of the burden that has been imposed by the rehabilitation of banks on our taxpayers. That's what the answers are. In the Civil Gazette, we believe that citizens deserve these answers, and this amendment will allow them these answers. As I said in one of the previous debates, the snow is falling to the point of leaving the beasts. We're talking about beasts preying on our common property. The traces will leave these beasts both in Parliament when we vote on this law and later in state-owned companies and banks, where the information that this law reveals shows who it is and what it has done. Disclosure of these beasts, who prey on state property, is the fundamental mission of the Civil Gazette. In this point, honourable Members and honourable Members, citizens and citizens, we do not negotiate in this point the fight against corruption in the Civil Code.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u96	Thank you very much. The contents of what is in our amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Slovenian People's Party and New Slovenia, as well as what is in the amendment of the National Charter, could already be under the roof of the previous examination of the law. Such an amendment was on the table, but the coalition, or then the chairman, also excommunicated it in a flagrant manner by a flagrant violation of the Rules of Procedure, to exclude it. And of course you voted out a different amendment that had already ruled out this content. It was already clear to me that there was a background that would do anything to ensure that what was left in the state banks and not transferred to a bad bank – and these loans, as the predecessor said, were for several billion – that this was relatively safe, or that it was an interest to hide safely. Of course, if both amendments are rejected – we will support both – then you tell Slovenian citizens that this marriage is worth the effort, but it is sand in the eyes, because everything will be hidden, those who robbed banks who did not do everything they did. The feeling is very severe, ladies and gentlemen. The hunch went up after I listened to Masha Kociper in the office when she was playing here. If we translate her performance or record everything she said between the lines, then Positive Slovenia has already changed its mind. It will do anything to ensure that those who are talking now and talking about the terrible consequences for business secrets, and I don't know what it will be like to be protected forever. Robbery will continue, protecting beasts and crime in banks will continue, and it will be the same as in another area where, say, the crimes of the Udba are not a problem for you. They're for the others! This is precisely why the country came into this situation when every crime was being protected. As Dr. Vehovar said years ago, what happened in our banks was a crime, but he doesn't want to define himself as a criminal. We can't do this without finding the perpetrators, that the citizens we've put in banks' rehabilitation for the third time or for the fourth time will not be allowed to know who did this. As they may not know where Minister Chufer has collected new loans and paid huge commissions again in America and I do not know where the known people in Slovenia have received for mediation. Look, this is not how this country can be solved. I would like one of the colleagues who now began to return from the Positive Slovenia Group, frankly, to say, from the heart, those who are sitting here, for whom I believe they are honest, what they have been ordered. What they were told to do, how to do all this; how to drive the thirsty through the water. Relying on the fact that the theft in this country was still worth a lot of money is, colleagues and colleagues, in my unethical and even forever will not work, because the Slovenians will go mad. They're going to go crazy for good, and they're going to shoot somebody out of their pants -- if I say so myself. Ladies and gentlemen, I find it even a little repulsive that we only have a vote today at this meeting on Thursday alone. So far, it has never been possible for the meeting to end only to be covered by the vote. Here some have taken enough time to make deadlines successful and to get through through their writings in some media, there has been some terrible thing for the success of our banks, which are so powerfully successful, and our companies, which were in such a period of time when they could hide everything, so powerfully successful that it has accumulated for eleven billion different loans. And they were so successful! And these managers keep making sure they do their best. On the Investigative Commission on Banks, as far as I can follow, one - I don't think one of the supervisors is guilty of being like Brultz in Hit when he didn't know anything like he confessed when they didn't tell him anything. But they won't say! And they keep saying how good the Slovenian banks were running then the money back if everything was all right! [[…]] Then the money back so we don't recover. And we're not going anywhere! It's sad. And, ladies and gentlemen, on our account, it's on you. Three quarters of you won't be elected if you vote like that in the next election, if you don't find out here. Because people are gonna go crazy and have to go crazy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sonja Ramshak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, together with the two opposition parties, the Slovenian People's Party and Novo Slovenija, we tabled an amendment, which we have already announced at the second reading of the proposed amendment to the Law on Access to Public Information. Indeed, we find it unacceptable that bad loans that have not been transferred to a society for the management of bad claims should be disclosed. With this amendment and with the amendment of the Civil Code, you will actually support the disclosure of these bad loans, including those that have not been transferred to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. If only for those who monitor us in front of the screens, I say that with this amendment, we would like to add a new seventh paragraph in the new Article 6a, which reads as follows: Freely accessible information of a public nature also becomes information of business entities referred to in Article 1a of this Act directly related to credits classified under international banking standards in group D and E, late payment of obligations over 90 days and not transferred to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. This is not about disclosing bank business secrets, but it is literally about disclosing those data arising from the already adopted law additions, that the Slovenian public and everyone else has the right to know who, in what way and under what conditions, and how those credits that present a risk to the banks we are saving with the taxpayer's money have been secured. I would like to appeal in particular to Positive Slovenia to listen if you do not already support the amendment of the opposition groups to support the amendments of the National Gazette and in fact show that you are not a party to capital and corruption, but that you are in fact a positive Slovenia that works for the well-being of citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Is there still a desire to discuss it? I'll open another round. I'm asking you to sign up. We have another debate tabled. Mrs. Kristina Valenčič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u100	Thank you very much. I am sorry, but it seems to me that so many different doubts have been said today that it is right to clarify once again what we want to achieve in the Civil Gazette with this amendment. It is just that we want those bad loans that are already defined as bad loans and classified in the D and E grades. It is said, in the lowest credit classes that remain in banks, so they have not been transferred to a bad bank, only for these loans we want to open up to the public. Earlier, it had been said from Brulco’s colleague that we were generalising in Slovenia. We're really inclined to generalize, so I'm really doing everything in this direction. The Civil Code has also advocated this type of disclosure of these loans in coalition coordination all the time, because we want to get to the names and surnames because we do not want to be generalised and because we are convinced that all bad loans are not Taiwanese credits; but we will resolve this when we get specific data. There has been a lot of talk about what will result from this accessibility to banks or economic operators, which will, of course, be published somewhere and made available to the public. I have already said in my position that we are in favour of a healthy business environment, and I think that those who want to do business are not in trouble. That's what they said! I don't know, Insurance Triglav, I read in Del yesterday, and she made it clear that she doesn't object to any of these concerns. And as we said, we weighed, we didn't overlook the warnings of the economy or the bankers. And again. When we talk about these loans – in bank jargon, these loans are dead. Very low – of course there is a chance that one day some credit, which is now being assessed in the D or E rating class, will also become C or even higher, but also for these loans we have already given taxpayers our money. And they're in this mass that's gone. That is why it is right and I really believe that we must insist here on this amendment in order to increase the accessibility of these loans as well. As it is said, because then we leave some doubt that we have not made it clear that we have not made available to the public all the information we have been talking about all the time; and this, of course, is not good. Mr Jerovšek used to say that we bought time to squeeze and bend our hands. Nobody messes with my hands. I've been sitting here all day, and I don't have any problems. And even in coalitions, although sometimes we differ in our thinking, no one squeezes hands, so don't worry, this amendment will go its own way.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u101	Thank you very much. I think I've seen Mr. Zanoskar before. Here you go, Mr. Matjaž Zanoskar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Well, we've already spoken about this amendment in Positive Slovenia. And again, the novelty is good, but the matter of the amendment raises some thought and some doubt as to whether we will reach the desired goal that we want to achieve. Credits that have not been transferred to a bad bank and belong to Group D and E are loans that still have some dynamics are still coming back. Well, this is a 90-day deadline in which some companies or borrowers are not liquid, they do not have the means to return, but we have defined that there are still those credits that can remain on the bank and this dynamic is still in place. By disclosing these loans, once again, Positive Slovenia is not against anything, everything has to be revealed, but if we expose such loans that are in groups D and E, then we can cause these big business problems. Then it can happen that these borrowers, who are now achieving some dynamics, will no longer be successful and will no longer be able to pay for these loans. This is where we did the damage again. If we have recapitalised banks in the sense that this is being remedied, then we will have the opposite effect. In Positive Slovenia, we believe that this should be considered very meticulously and that we should decide not to do any quick damage; harm to ourselves – damage to the country, damage to banks, damage to the entire bank rehabilitation programme. Therefore, once again, an in-depth consideration is needed as to whether or not this can be done under a whole set of public information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Pavlišič has yet to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. It has been mentioned several times that when we expose these bad loans to the public, we criminalise those who have taken these loans. It's not like that at all. We all know that taking credit is an integral part of some normal business. If any of these credits are criminal, this will be seen from looking at the content, and then we can talk about whether it was a crime in the back or not. I believe that, because of the situation on the market, as mentioned earlier today, the credit that someone has taken on a well-intentioned basis, in order to repay it, to expand its business, and because of the market situation already mentioned, it has shown that it has not been possible to pay it back, that it has come between bad credits, that it will be able to explain it very well to itself, in the first place to its employees, to the owners of businesses and to society as a whole, and will not be criminalised in any way. We really have to separate here, by saying that some credit is bad, we haven't said that now it's a crime. Absolutely not, and nothing like that has ever been said out of our mouth. This is a sort of manipulation when it comes to presenting ourselves that we now want to criminalise all owners of bad loans. Far from it! Mr Zanoškar, I warmly welcome this idea of you to think about it further, and I believe that after this in-depth reflection you will also support our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u105	Thank you very much. I can still see the desire for a debate. Mr. Fox, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u106	Thank you. Let me just repeat that I will support the amendment of the opposition SDS, New Slovenia and the Slovenian People's Party. However, because I believe that there is no serious intention, despite the Minister's well-meaning warning that the amendment is acceptable, we will support the amendment of colleagues from the National Gazette and give this law a slightly better connotation. I took the floor mainly because of Mr Zanoskar's debate, which sums up the discussion of Positive Slovenia, not only in this law, but also in a number of other laws, which are somehow going in this direction: we would – and we would – not. In short, one thing can be said, but what is done is a completely different question. Above all, I see at the crucial moment of this government, which is a matter of delay, which is privatisation and a bad bank. When the word in the National Assembly refers to these two key points for the resolution of the Slovenian economy, there is a great deal of talk about what would be necessary, how we will be, but in the end many times in the vote we will not: we will not. I regret this kind of action and the conduct of Members, in particular the Group of Members of the Positive Slovenia, but somehow I understand them. They are being raided into the European liberal space, and they remain prisoners of national interest on their own at the home stage. This doubt is also evident in their speech and their operation. If you want to be at least a little liberal, if you do not support the opposition's amendment already, because I know that you are having a hard time with your hands, support the amendment of coalition colleagues from the National List, where there has been a bit of this liberal spirit in our Slovenia lately. I myself will support the amendment of the SDS, New Slovenia and SLS, as well as the amendment of the National List. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Zanoskar, would you like a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u108	Thank you. Comrade Fox, it's not about whether or not we will. However, we also have this expert opinion, the opinion of the Bank of Slovenia, which points out that such an amendment or content may also be harmful on the other hand; and this is our reflection. We don't want to jump and say, "Hop, now we're where we are. And if it's a mistake, it's a mistake..." This error can be severely compensated, in a negative sense, for the whole thing. The whole effort to rehabilitate the banking system can have an absolutely very negative effect. That is why we are in Positive Slovenia to reconsider and, above all, to listen to the profession. Above all, to listen to the opinion of the Bank of Slovenia on what it says and then to decide on what will be good; not to decide on something we will regret – otherwise the opposition will probably not take responsibility if things do not go as we thought. The coalition will take responsibility. We don't want to go anywhere unless we know what the consequences are, or at least until we know what the consequences are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u109	Thank you very much. It's not possible to replicate a replica, I'm sorry. But if anyone else wanted to discuss it, [[…]] Mrs. Kristina Valenčič first. Here you go, Mrs. Kristina Valenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u110	Only briefly because the payment deadlines mentioned were mentioned earlier. Once again, I used to say what D and E credits are. So I will read only the basic ones under D group, "... pay obligations with delays ranging from 90 to 180 days, occasional delays up to 360 days, which are insolvent, for which a proposal to initiate the enforcement procedure has been tabled before the competent court...". These are, for example, basic categories of credits under group D. Under E all of this, and they also have a "disputed legal basis" and "payed with a delay of over 360 days". So we're not talking about 90 days, we're talking 180 days to 360 days. So, like I said, it's actually dead loans. And once again: I'm aware Look, even from the old house you can make a very beautiful villa. [[…]] Why not? But when you buy it, you know what you buy. Here too, if there are bad loans, it will, of course, be duly reflected in the AJPES records and there will be an appropriate rating for this entity. So there's no fear if we even name these bad loans on this side if we call it that.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Fox, you have a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u112	Maybe one part will also be part of the replica. I think that each of us Members is responsible for our actions, whether we are now in coalition, opposition or if things can turn out in any way. If you have a problem explaining your colleagues from the National List, which I must say have really tried and explained the amendment, I will say, not only as it is coming, be yourself, take fifteen seconds of time and read the explanation of the proposal of the SDS amendment, New Slovenia and the Slovenian People's Party, which is quite simple and fully understandable and will not take you long to think in certain parties to the coalition, but you will also be able to make a very easy decision to support these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Grill, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u114	Thank you very much. I took the floor in particular on the implementation of Mr Zanoskar, who refers, as a dilemma, to support this amendment according to the profession – Banka Slovenije. What about the Bank of Slovenia? Is this an institution that can still have the confidence that legislation imposes on it? It is the Bank of Slovenia's great responsibility that we have the banking system as it is, and it was also the profession that exercised supervision in banking systems and also carried out sanctions that were not available. This is how we now refer to the Bank of Slovenia, which I believe is probably also a number of their employees, who are responsible for matters for the return, who do not smell or may have difficulties here, so that a wide range of matters may be revealed through such legislation. Look, let's be really constructive here. Let's give what people expect, let's open this information, and this amendment, the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party as well as the National Gazette, is the right solution. As for responsibility, Mr. Zanoškar – who took responsibility for the real estate law? It was also by the coalition MPs that the ashes were sprinkled, where they themselves said that they had been misled by information that they had just pressed the key, as it is, but there is no responsibility nor the spirit nor the hearing. So don't say you're taking any responsibility in the coalition. No one has ever accepted it for such bad solutions, I'm afraid. Let us really show here how constructive and responsible we are to adopt this law in such a way as to achieve the desired goals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to discuss it? Mr. Zanoskar, you have a replica. A debate?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u116	I have to replicate that. The property tax is the government's responsibility. As we have also heard on the questions sent, the President of the Government has said that these errors will be corrected and that the law will be as it should be. ZUJF – Who was responsible for the ZUJF? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Would you like to discuss it again? There's more than one debate. I see Mr. Visionary. Here you go, Mr. Visac.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u118	Your Honor! We're under an important amendment to this law. In fact, I do not think it is necessary to discuss for too long whether Slovenian taxpayers or the Slovenian public have the right to information on bad loans or on those credits that they will have to settle with their stings by doing what they create. I agree that all bad credit is not a crime. Indeed, in a time of economic crisis, a number of economic operators have also landed in a situation where they cannot repay loans and have become entangled in problems that are even greater than the fact that their bad credit will be published or that information will be of a public nature. I believe that it is crucial and accountable to Slovenian taxpayers and, last but not least, preventively in the future, that everything that taxpayers have to settle no longer hides behind some banking secrecy. I agree that banking transactions must be confidential when we have some proper cooperation between lenders and borrowers and that these are business secrecy. But when taxpayers enter, when some state aid comes in, because it is a state aid scheme, state aid allowed, it seems to me that this goes beyond this confidentiality and that it is only right for those who pay to know what they pay and to whom they pay. I understand the thoughts of the Bank of Slovenia, but they must also understand our view that in the eyes of the work of the policy – I think that the major part of the policy – has been significantly lost on their credibility, their credibility and their expertise and that what they say, especially when they protect certain closed circles, is significantly less credible than it would have been if their responsibilities were not also demonstrated by a whole set of bad loans and, consequently, by state aid and tax burdens. The fact that the Governor of Banka Slovenije, Mr Kranjc, argued some year ago that everything was fine in the Slovenian banking area – these are his public statements – and today we need to devote a few billion euros of taxpayer money to the rehabilitation of the Slovenian banking system, testifies that this man, or that the Bank of Slovenia, also as an institution that he represented at the time, was knowingly misleading and was lying or unprofessional to some purpose of public reconciliation. They're just these two things, and they're both bad for them and for their credibility. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we should once again draw attention to the awareness that has been triggered here that those who make decisions are responsible for these decisions. If the bankers who signed them and the borrowers had to assume some responsibility in some way, then we must also take responsibility for their votes and the responsibility is approximately too disproportionate to the position in which we are. Those who have the majority and accept the rules must also be responsible for this vote, which made it possible to adopt the rules, including those before us, and also for such an amendment that is on the table today. And those who also vote and vote against, but we are only in a minority, and the decision is taken despite our opposition, of course we are not responsible for the adoption of this regulation, because we have just pointed out our shortcomings and voted against it. Therefore, our responsibility depends on how we acted and where we stand. As you have, Mr Zanoškar, warned against real estate tax and that everything is fine with it – yes, then I do not know which world you live in. I believe that you are among the people, that you perceive the problems people have, and that you sense the new and new injustices that are now happening with these flat-rate solutions. See what kind of injustice there will be I don't even understand this solution to the problem of non-residential housing, real estate or residential housing. [[…]] So whoever owns the holiday house will be less taxed than the one who owns the farm or the building.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u119	Mr Vizjak, let me warn you that we are at Article 8.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u120	Yes, yes, because, Madam Vice-President, I have debated a lot, but I am referring to previous discussions that have also gone this way. I think if you haven't warned me before, leave me alone, too, since I still have some time. Or be in charge of everyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u121	I'll warn you when necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u122	Yeah, it's nice, but it's just me. Dear Mr Zanoskar mentioned the ZUJF. And you warned him? What does ZUJF have to do with this? Did you, Mr. Zanoskar, mention the ZUJF or not? The Public Finance Balance Act. And if anything were wrong with this ZUJF – respected Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš, who has sophisticated this to Mr Zanoskar, should mention – you would probably have cancelled it already, but not that you sang praises to him in the stability programme and the reform programme adopted by your government and introduced to the National Assembly. And it's actually the only serious law that's done anything in this country on the spending side, because we all know that we're spending a little too much and that's what all the birds are actually doing. So, Your Honor, it is the coalition that is responsible for the decisions taken in this House, or those you confirm, but not those we oppose and explain in an argument why we oppose it. So also for such a decision, because if either the opposition amendment or the amendment of the Civil Gazette is rejected and these data are still not available to the public, you will accept responsibility, not us who propose this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u123	I'm asking if anyone else would like to discuss it. I'll open up a replica. You didn't discuss it, Mrs. Barbara Žginer Tavsh. Ms Masha Kociper applied for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u124	I'll be brief, but Mr. Visac encouraged me. Mr. Visjak, where is your responsibility? We are now adopting one law that solves — and you are all very excited — problems that have accumulated in recent years and that would not be bad claims, there would be no recapitalisation, there would be no use of tax money if you, when you were a four-year minister of the economy in your government, did otherwise and would save something in the time of good cows for the time of the dry cows. Where is your responsibility that the ZUJF you mentioned – without us canceling it, the Constitutional Court has cancelled it four times, and all taxpayers are paying for it, with late interest at the same time! Such conduct is indeed difficult to answer. You are still a Member, your client is still one of the biggest, and here together we are thinking about how we will make everything more transparent so that these things do not happen in the future. If they were to be prevented at that time, they would not need to be tortured by such matters and ask themselves, ‘ If they are constitutional, they are contrary, they are appropriate as to the consequences. ’ The fact that you are now calling us to account for the law on transparency, with so many mistakes being made that we are recapitalizing banks and so on, is, in fact, strange.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Vizjak, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u126	So, Mrs Maša Kociper, you are a lawyer and you must know Slovenian legal order or at least you imagine it, but you speak quite differently. Now tell me one rule, one regulation or any provision in the Republic of Slovenia where the Minister or Member or any policy is informed, whether it can affect the credit activity of banks in state ownership or in any other property! So, Your Honor, tell me one formal lever that would have been used as Minister during 2004-2008, when I was Minister of the Economy or any other minister, including the Minister of Finance or even the President of the Government, which formal lever would have been used to prevent bad loans? Tell me. Tell me this lever and quote me exactly the article, the law, or the submarital act, or whatever. Does the government control the banking system or does Banka Slovenije do that? Who's in charge? Because if so, then you can also ask your fellow Members of the SD, because bad loans have been granted since 2008. And many of your colleagues were sitting in the government coalition, both on the left and on the right, and you might ask them about it, but not that you politically want to impose it on someone else. One more thing. What do taxpayers pay for the missed and repealed decisions of the ZUJF? If it were not for these decisions, respected Masha Kociper, those rights would be paid forward. If there weren't for these solutions. Now they're back. And what's the extra tax burden here? With the late payment. Fine! They'd pay them back then. Late interest's exactly what they're paying for. One more thing, if this ZUJF were such a problem, then you would probably want to cancel it, but not to smile directly: you propose repealing certain provisions of the ZUJF and withdraw them from the procedure. It is typical when you wanted to return additional health insurance to veterans of the war on Slovenia. And you proposed a marriage, and I don't know where it is now, and it's stuck in this marriage. You wanted to cloud people's view by returning this when economic growth is, I don't know, over two or three wholes and I don't know how many percent. In short, look, everyone here will have to take responsibility for their decisions, that's what we're talking about. And as I see it, you are opposed; you are opposed to an amendment with which data would speak about [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u127	Mr. Visjak, I'm sorry, but there are three minutes of replicas, so [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u128	Look, right at the first second, you interrupted me again. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u129	you have 15 seconds [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u130	15 seconds longer to speak, give me this right too and please be right to discussers [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u131	trying to be right [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u132	It's not a war for you. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u133	Your three minutes are up, and I'll give you 15 seconds. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u134	I just want to tell you that I don't know who you're protecting, Mrs Kociper, if you don't want data on bad loans to be disclosed to the Slovenian public. Who are you protecting? Mr. Jankovic?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u135	Thank you very much. I'd open another round for discussion because I saw there was still a wish. Perhaps, however, we would try to keep on doing so without accusing each other and focusing on Article 8. I'm opening the way for a debate. I'm asking you to sign up. We have a report from Mrs. Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u136	I have been so kindly invited many times by Mr Vizjak to reply to him, which are the levers, that I am pleased to answer: levers are the untransparent recruitment along the political line. This lever is, because that's what we're talking about, isn't it? So that when you run out of arguments and become discredited, I begin to feel sorry for myself, to mention Mr Jankovic – this is not on your level. We're talking about responsibility, and that's the leverage that we're now adopting legislation for. Untransparent staffing, including under your government, especially under your government, making decisions that have resulted in our economic system and our banking system being there now. And when all day, not today for the first time, but every reading of the Public Information Access Act, you start to tell us on this page how untransparent recruitment in state-owned companies should be regulated and what we are afraid of. Look, we're not afraid of anything. That's exactly what we're doing! You didn't do it when you had the chance, and we do it. I find it hard to listen calmly, but I try to see how you always turn around and what your sins are, then you try to attach to someone else. We're gonna end this. But you didn't know or you didn't want to, and that's why we're where we are today.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Vizjak, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u138	What are you going to do about it? Hiding for bank secrecy? That's not what you want! This is an amendment that you do not support to make available to the public bad loans and data on these bad loans. You don't support this amendment. And you're fighting for transparency? No, the opposite! You're still fighting for further concealment of this data. By the way, when you spoke about our responsibility under the 2004-2008 mandate – untransparent staffing. Who was at the head of the New Ljubljana Bank in 2004-2008? Mr. Marjan Kramar. That gentleman who received 1 million euros is even more – shameful! – rewards for its work, for its contribution to taxpayer exposure. Who was Mr. Marjan Kramar? Kader of the Slovenian Democratic Party? Where are you from? Mr Marjan Kramar was Mr Drnovska's closest associate and was politically appointed to the New Ljubljana Bank to serve politics, the current policy. That's what everybody's sizzling at, everywhere! And you are saying that we are now responsible for Mr. Marjan Kramar being the head of the New Ljubljana Bank from 2004-2008?Oh, my God! What's wrong with you? And who signed the most disgraceful provision in the contract, to this gentleman, after whom he received it later in 2009, because, earlier in the time of the Yangtze government, he did not hope to propose the payment of this prize? Who signed them? Once again, the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance, who was in front of Janša's government, is the Government of Rop! These are people, and these are from your liberal nest! Please do not deceive the Slovenian public or those who do not have at least a memory for the last 10 years, or have not been accompanied by it – I do not blame them, but who will accompany all these things! And now you're pointing your finger at us! Look, some self-reflection, self-criticism, and not least, observation of your own actions. We would like to draw your attention to what you have done with your own actions in the real estate tax — chaos in this country, huge injustices that you are exacerbating! This is, as one example, that injustices must not be done and that some responsibility for decisions taken must only be borne out. And you're going straight ahead! This amendment, I believe, is doomed and broken, this amendment to the law! For he speaks about whether the data on bad loans will be made available to the public, so that it will be known that taxpayers — those paying for these bad loans — will see who was signed under these contracts, what amounts they are and who is to blame.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Ms Maša Kociper has applied for the debate, but I would still like to ask that we may bring the matter to an end and that we are having a substantive debate. Here you go, Mrs. Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u140	The contents would touch on the wrong statement of its predecessor that this amendment is broken and that it opens the way for voters, citizens, taxpayers to look at bad loans. What a deceiving! And we usually give up on the left, and we prefer to be quiet when you start with such deceptions. We have opened all of this up and made it completely transparent in the second reading. On loans transferred to the DUTB, I have transparency that is incompatible with anything in Europe. Everything about these credits will not only be possible to look at, but will even be published on the website – proactive transparency. So your rhetorical twists are really amazing. We're talking about responsibility, and then you're going to give me a go at Marjan Kramar, and then you're going to accuse me of being my, our, I don't know what, and on Marjan Kramar, you're going to conclude that we don't support transparency and that the taxpayers see who got the credit. No! No! We say, however, that the effects on the functioning of banks should also be reconsidered, because if people, I think companies here, know that their poorly rated credits on ordinary commercial banks can be reviewed by Members, the media or anyone, we are concerned – and I think that this is more than a reasonable thought on the ground – that they will rather carry their savings to other banks. That's what we're talking about. Now that you've mentioned Marjan Kramar, I'll tell you something. You knew about him during the time of one year ago of your government and this problem. You know what we do in Positive Slovenia? We're dealing with this in person! We are studying the possibilities and we think that we will decide to do so, but after considering suing this gentleman, we will get some of this reward back. These are concrete measures, but not just what should be, but what should be and what not. We are considering the possibility that, on the basis of compensation, this money could be obtained from him. So you'll know!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sonja Ramshak is still ahead of you. [[…]] Mr. Visjak has the replica. Sonja, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Otherwise, Mrs Ramšak will probably explain to me the content of this deception, which we have just heard. But look, let me. Dear Mrs Kociper, you have spoken and pointed with your finger at my responsibility or at the responsibility of the Janša government in 2004. Then I asked you what legal provisions or what specific things we were responsible for, and then you talked about non-transparent staffing, and I then told him who was the chairman of the New Ljubljana Bank administration, that is to say the key banks, which have the largest market share and, last but not least, the largest system bank in the country. Who was the key person who also employed in this bank, which had an impact on credit committees and – I am sure – on most of the bad loans granted. Together we were able to find that this is certainly not the SDS staff, because it was not set up in the mandate of any Janša government and was set up in the mandate of the former, Drnovškova, if not the Government of Rope, and was a close, politically exposed associate of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you are, how would you say, a child, or some legal heirs or heirs to the Liberal Democracy, because you have, after all, a bunch of Members from within: Mr Kavtičnik, for example. We sat in Parliament from 2004 to 2008 when he was a Member of the Liberal Democracy – by the way. But I can count someone else. Now, don't get carried away and say you have nothing political to do with these actors. And one more thing. Have you even read the amendment we're talking about? We are talking about free access to information about business entities that have not been transferred to a bad bank but fall under bad credits because obligations are not settled within the 90-day period. These are also very interesting problems, and you obviously don't want to see it. And who's up for transparency now?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u143	Thank you very much. For the debate I saw two more debaters reported, and then we will slowly reach the end. Mrs Sonja Ramshak was first reported.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Of course, I am pleased that already my fellow Member, Mr Vizjak, has explained a number of things and has responded in fact to the way I would like to mislead Mrs Maša Kociper's honourable Member. She did the same earlier in her discussion when we had a general discussion and then matured, of course, from the hall. This is not about revealing all credits – and this is about misleading –; it is literally about credits marked D and E. It is said that those who have received such loans are not able to settle those loans for 90 days. And before that, the Member of the National Gazette explained nicely which loans belong to Group D and E. This is not about credits from us, ordinary citizens and citizens. Why do you not also want to disclose those loans that have not been transferred to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, but you need to respond to them yourself; and also to the public. Maybe it's Grep's loans, but maybe it's those contracts, the effective contracts signed by Minister Jakič, and so forth. Perhaps, however, there is a reason why you do not want to support the amendments, if you do not want to support the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party, that you do not want to support the amendments of your coalition partner, that is, the National Charter! And who, since the first debate on this law, has already pointed out that all bad loans and not just those transferred to the Bank's Claims Management Company must be disclosed? Yes, the Slovenian Democratic Party and the other two opposition parties! As we have pointed out, there is also a need to disclose counseling contracts, or lawyers' houses, and so on. And all of this is in this marriage today, and I count on the time we've reached it. But do not deceive the Slovenian public, you can lie to yourself, but in front of the camera tell what the facts are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u146	There are many promises, or words, about what has been revealed and what is the public interest. In my previous reading, I asked about the initial proposal for a law. Then through the procedure when the amendment came to this Article 8 which tried somehow to discover things, but the fact is, it's a cover-up. Allow me to read to you the third paragraph of Article 8 of the original text of the bill: "In the case of business entities under the dominant influence of public law persons, it is considered that public interest in disclosure is stronger than public interest or the interest of others to restrict access to the information requested in Article 4a, where the information is directly linked to the issue of environmental protection, whether it indicates a possible violation of the law, whether it is directly linked to the management of the assets of the business entity to the detriment of the Republic of Slovenia, the self-government local communities or other public law persons." Public interest – so much talk by the coalition, what is the public interest and what will be revealed Again I ask the representatives of the Ministry, why this provision of this article or this text went out – that "the public interest in disclosure is stronger than the public interest or interests of others in individual cases". [[…]] So much, let's see how much of us are in our pants about the public interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u147	Thank you very much. A representative of the government still wanted a word, and then if you could take it slow [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u148	Thank you. Let me answer the question. I think that this issue has already been raised in a second reading, that we have aligned the text with the Legislative and Legal Service, and this is an important provision. In fact, the exceptions are set out in Article 6. And this doctrine, which was already in this bill, is no longer necessary since it is already laid down by the law in Article 6, where exceptions are laid down, the second paragraph of Article 6, which states: "In spite of the provisions of the preceding paragraph, access to the information requested shall be permitted if the public interest in disclosure is stronger than the public interest, the interest of other persons in restricting access to the information requested, except in the following cases...", where exceptions are provided, inter alia, classified data. I want to say that this provision has basically been repeated for us, so we have deleted it on the basis of a proposal from the Legal and Legislative Service. And the matter is clear on the basis of the already established ZDJZ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u149	Thank you very much. I even saw Mr. Badger wanting to talk.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u150	Thank you so much for saying that. From another point of view, I'm going to shed light on this problem, just as I see it, which I'm not an expert in banking. In fact, I am interested in what bankers and experts in this area believe. This isn't just the Bank of Slovenia. What do economists think about how this is regulated in the European Union, what are examples of good practice in other EU countries? Finally, we are part of this space; we are also before the EU elections, where we are also talking about the banking union. So we wouldn't be doing something exotic here right now that no other country has. I also wonder if this is how we would open these maps – we say this is transparent – what will the public actually do with it? It's not the public's function to control these matters. The media would fill up the press, the press would fill the media, and that would be the case. This must be done by law enforcement authorities and they shall exercise this control function, not by the public as such. It is important to me whether the profession says that this can affect business relations between individual stakeholders or cannot affect them. Just like it's arranged elsewhere. The most common argument I hear is that taxpayers pay and have the right to know. This is where you need to be careful. Taxpayers or all of us pay a health contribution, but we must not know much about the patient or treatment. There's data where it could be harmful for everyone to know about it because they're paying for it in some cash register. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to discuss it at Article 8? I don't see any more desire for a debate. We are moving to a debate on article 23, namely the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the Civil Gazette and DeSUS. Does anyone want to discuss it? I don't see a desire to discuss it. So we move on to Article 29. I am putting to the debate the amendments of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the Civil Gazette and DeSUS. Does anyone want to discuss Article 29? I do not see a desire to discuss, which means that we have concluded the debate on the amendments that will be decided on Thursday, 6 March, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, this is on a defensive proposal for a law to supplement the War Invalids Act after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Anji Kopač Mrak, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u152	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. A nice greeting from the Member of Parliament and the Members in my name, too! Before you are proposed amendments to the War Disability Act, which relate mainly to the conditions for obtaining the right to family disability under the War Disability Act. The proposed supplement facilitates the conditions for the acquisition of that right to widows of fallen fighters who lost their lives in carrying out military duties or other duties for the defence and security purposes of the Republic of Slovenia in the military aggression in 1991 in such a way as to enable widows to exercise their right as self-consumers if they lived with a fallen fighter at least the last year before his death. The concept of a self-consumer means that a widow after the proposed supplement can exercise the right on her own, irrespective of whether or not the joint children are regularly trained. Children can only be exercised as co-existences with the right, and after the proposed supplement they can exercise the right independently. In order to exercise the right, there is also no longer the required age condition of 55 years or the condition of permanent complete incapacity to work. The laws of the fallen fighters who lost their lives in carrying out military duties or other duties for the defence and security of the Republic of Slovenia in military aggression against our country in 1991, according to the age at the death of the spouse, could not normally exercise the right to family invalidity as independent beneficiaries because they did not comply with the prescribed condition under the War Disabled Persons Act, which sets the age of 55. The proposed supplement thus constitutes only a continuation of the legal protection of these beneficiaries. In fact, the bill constitutes a regulation of the legal situation of beneficiaries who, first of all, suffered the loss of their spouse in the events of 1991. They also lost the right to a family disability because children are adults and no longer have regular schooling, while they are not 55 years old so that they can enjoy the right as self-sufficient users under the current regime. The right to a family disability after the proposed supplement can therefore be exercised for the first time and on their behalf even before the age of 55. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A nice greeting to the minister and, of course, to the other colleagues! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities, as a parent, considered the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on War Disability, submitted to the National Assembly by the Government, with a proposal for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. Representatives of the proposed State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, representative of the State Council and representatives of the North Association, Association of War Disabled Persons of Slovenia and Association of War Disabled Persons 91, participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the proposal in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects. It commented on the proposed text on Article 1. In its opinion presented by the representative of the State Council at the meeting of the Committee, the Commission of the State Social Protection Council, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons endorsed the draft law. The Commission took note of the comments made by the Association of Civil Disabled Persons of the Wars of Slovenia, which expressed its support for the resolution of the situation of widows following the fall of fighters in aggression in 1991, but at the same time pointed out the incomplete handling of issues and, consequently, the unequal treatment of other beneficiaries under the War Disabled Act. They are aware that due to the legal void, the issue of rights for widows following the fall of a fighter in aggression against the Republic of Slovenia 1991 must be addressed as soon as possible. They therefore support the adoption of the bill as soon as possible, while calling for further arrangements between interested associations and the competent ministry to address the issue of family disability more comprehensively for other beneficiaries under law. No amendments were tabled to the bill. The representative presented the draft law briefly, and the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service presented a written opinion at the meeting of the Committee and pointed out that the text of the bill gave a more favourable position in respect of the administration of rights only to the spouses of fallen fighters, not to the spouses of deceased military disabled persons and other persons who died as a result of the illness acquired in carrying out military duties for the defence and security purposes of the Republic of Slovenia in the military aggression against the Republic of Slovenia in 1991. The Legislative and Legal Service considers that the proposed law must clearly state the reasons for that distinction and demonstrate that it fulfils the criteria for the permissible distinction in legal rights as set out in the practice of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia in relation to Article 14 of the Constitution, or to supplement the bill accordingly. In the debate, all the discussers supported the proposal for a law, and some also highlighted the fact that such a law could have been adopted three quarters of a year earlier, but that it was not decided at the time that it was appropriate for further consideration. The representative of Nova Slovenije stressed that she was pleased that the Government had an understanding of this issue and that the status of disabled people, who are around seventy-seven, must also be resolved. Such a law has already been introduced and rejected, and they hope that this problem will soon be resolved. The Committee voted on both articles together and adopted them. As amendments have not been adopted to the draft law on the home labour body, the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and the Disabled to the National Assembly proposes that the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on War Disability be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Iva Dimic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u156	Dear Vice President, Minister, colleague and colleague! Christian Democrats are pleased that after a bad year, the government has finally come to realize that the status of widows or their right to family disability after the fall of fighters for Slovenia alone must be regulated. These men did not fall just in some cases, but they fell for independent Slovenia, making the marriage much more symbolic. The widows of fallen Territorial Defence and Police fighters who lost their lives in the defence of the Republic of Slovenia during the 1991 Yugoslav Army aggression cannot, as a rule, exercise the right to family disability under the War Disabled Persons Act as independent beneficiaries, since they have not yet met the age criterion of 55 at the time of losing their husband. It can only be invoked as co-habitants, along with a child who would be entitled to such a right. In Nova Slovenija, we believe that the least the country can do to these four — yes — widows disabled after a deceased husband. These women and children have no husband, no father, no guardian. These are specific people and specific difficult situations. Therefore, it seems only right for them to enjoy a loss that is nothing and no one can recover, at least in part. In our opinion, the bill should be adopted as it regulates the rights of a small group of leaders who lost a family member in the war for Slovenia. Four widows who are entitled or entitled to an early retirement pension under the law are in no way privileged or privileged. Despite all efforts to clean up the pension allowance and all the measures taken, we still have a number of privileged pensions that are tolerated peacefully. Members and Members of the New Slovenia will support the novel because we strongly advocate the view that the law must be adopted as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The next position will be presented by the mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh. This is the position of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word, Your Honourable Minister, Your Honourable colleague and colleague! This amendment to the law is likely to be accepted by the coalition with obvious evidence that a solution could have been enacted before, I will say, about six months, which is not even twisted from the vine. In the interim, the Ministry expressed the desire or need to carry out certain checks on the proposed solution and on the Home Committee we have then adopted a decision by Members and Members to oblige the Government to regulate in legislation the right to family disability for widows who have fallen into aggression against Slovenia if, of course, they have lived with a fallen fighter in a common household to exercise the right to family pension as independent beneficiaries. The content itself would not even be discussed in more detail, the Minister initially said those key solutions. On the working body, I hope that we have also cleared up certain dilemmas or questions raised by the Legislative and Legal Service. Finally, not a single amendment has been tabled, and I hope that the law proposed today will be adopted unanimously – at least that was expected or expected, even in the light of the discussions that took place on the Committee. If I withdraw, this means that the family disability beneficiaries of the new one can, according to the law before us today, apply independently of whether or not the joint children are in school and without the required condition — as we have heard today — 55 years of age as currently in force, and regardless of the total incapacity to work. The financial effects of this law are also minimal, given the known number of potential beneficiaries, about €22,000 per year. From everything we say, we will support the amendment of the War Disabled Act in the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The following is the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which will be presented by the mag. Stefan Tessel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u160	Good bye to all of you! Mr President, Madam Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on War Disabled Persons, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia after a short procedure, will be supported by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the Parliament of the Slovenian Democratic Party, since this is the exact same law as proposed by the Government of Janez Janša last year or prepared by the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities under Minister Andrej Viszak. The law was submitted to procedure 13. 3. In 2013, the current coalition mostly rejected it as inappropriate if it did not solve the problem systematically. However, the aim of complementing existing legislation is to allow widows after the fall of fighters in military aggression against the Republic of Slovenia in 1991 who do not meet the age requirement of 55 years in order to exercise the right to family disability, regardless of age, even as independent users. According to article 58 of the Law, spouses or widows of fallen fighters could exercise this right as co-habitants with children who are under 26 years of age and under 27 years of age and undergraduate. Years – and met the conditions for the recognition of the right to family disability. Of course, 24 years have passed, the children have mainly been educated, and the widows have not yet reached 55 years of age, which, according to data now 4, is likely to have been 5 last year, since in one year it has been 55 years. But who will be responsible for not receiving these funds for one year? These are minimum financial resources, compared to privileged pensions, they are negligible. The Commission of the Council of State for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons has also observed the Government's misconduct with regard to the rejection of the law one year ago. Last year, when the Commission examined the content of the same proposal for a law amending the Law on War Disability at its meeting 9. 4. In 2013 due to warnings of unequal treatment of recipients of family disability, the proposal rejected and proposed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to submit as soon as possible an amendment to the War Disability Act, which will fully and equally address the problem of beneficiaries of family disability. The Commission of the Council of State found that the Government had tabled in the legislative procedure a proposal for a law re-introducing only partial solutions, i.e. the same substantive law as the government of Janez Janša a year ago. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we expected the Government to listen to affected disabled persons who had missed the legal deadline for proposing to obtain the status of a war invalid. These are members of the Territorial Defence, who participated in the defence of the Republic of Slovenia in 1991 and suffered the consequences of the disability and the civilian disabled of the self-sustainment war, which should allow a new deadline to apply for recognition of the status of a war invalid. Thus, with the amendment of the law, we have repaid four widows of Slovenian fighters for the independence of Slovenia, but we did not repay the circus to 30 people with disabilities who are still waiting for their rights. As I have already mentioned, we support the Law on War With Disabilities in the Slovenian Group of the Slovenian Democratic Novel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u162	As we have already heard, the substance of the proposal for a law amending the Law on War With Disabilities is the deletion of the age condition of 55 years for obtaining family disability for widows of fallen fighters who lost their lives in carrying out military duties in the war for Slovenia in 1991. We also said at the 13th meeting of the National Assembly last April that we do not oppose such an option, that it is important for us to solve the situation positively when the widows of fallen war fighters for Slovenia have lost their income because the children have completed their education and no longer have a family disability with this title, but have not yet completed their 55 years in order to exercise their own rights to the so-called widow's pension or disability. We did not back the bill at the time because of the concerns of the Legal and Legislative Service, which warned that the proposed solution was to treat the recipients of family disabled persons differently, since the abolition of the age limit was not proposed for divorced spouses nor for spouses of war disabled persons after their death and not for spouses who fell in other war periods. Therefore, the Legislative and Legal Service considered that such a proposal could be unconstitutional or the legislator should state the legitimate reasons why such a solution should be implemented without discrimination. Since the new government had just taken up its mandate at the time of its consideration of the law on the parental committee in April 2013, the law had been drawn up by the previous government, but there was not enough time to prepare further justifications and address the concerns of the Legislative and Legal Service, we felt that the law was not suitable for further consideration. The experience with the Public Finance Balance Act was particularly fresh, where by then the Constitutional Court had already repealed two provisions with negligible financial implications, so we insisted that we could not support constitutionally contested laws. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities further examined the position of the Legal and Legal Service and prepared further justifications, including decisions of the Constitutional Court in similar cases, explaining why a change of law is necessary and permissible only for widows of fallen fighters in the 1991 war for Slovenia, but not for other categories. We believe that there are sufficient arguments that it is no longer possible to talk about the unconstitutionality of the proposed amendment to the War Disability Act, so we will support the law, as we have supported the resolution of the situation of the beneficiaries to whom the solutions relate all the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u163	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group, Mr Michael Prevc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u164	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we view this law as a kind of correction of injustices, because we think that everything is too stepmotherly treated by all those who have fought for their homeland. It would therefore be expected that such solutions would be comprehensive and would not bring new divisions among beneficiaries. We note, however, that only some widows will be entitled to family disability in the monthly amount of €464 once the law has been amended. The bill gives a more favourable position in respect of the exercise of rights only to widows of fallen fighters, not to widows of dead military disabled persons and other persons who have died as a result of illness acquired in carrying out military duties. This distinction is also pointed out by the Union of Civil Disability Associations for Slovenia, as well as by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Despite the Government's additional explanation as a proponent of why the proposal concerns only some widows, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we believe that we should look at all widows after the dead for the same country. All widows have lost their husbands, their father's children, and their rights should therefore be treated equally, not depending on administrative, time and other bureaucratic conditions. We would also like to stress the fact that we expected the Government to propose a more comprehensive regulation of the issue of family invalids also for other beneficiaries under the law, as well as other issues such as the problem of the overdue deadline for regulating the status of a war invalid. Surely, veterans of the war on Slovenia deserve another opportunity to regulate this status, as we have repeatedly pointed out, last time we consider a law similar to that before us. Despite the above-mentioned concerns, the members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. Prevec. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mrs Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u166	Thank you for saying a nice hello to everyone! The main content of the draft law amending the Law on War Disability is the deletion of the age requirement of 55 years for obtaining a family disability allowance for widows of fallen fighters who lost their lives in carrying out military duties in the war for Slovenia in 1991. The four widows who lost their husbands or partners in our independent war can also be entitled to family disability as independent beneficiaries. Until now, it could only be invoked as cohabitants with a child who was entitled to such a right. But the fact is, after twenty - three years of age, these children have grown up and are already serving their own bread, or they have their own families, their mothers, their wives, fallen fighters, and they do not yet meet the age requirement for their own disability. We have decided in our parliamentary group to support this law. We have thus decided, irrespective of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which, as already in dealing with this same issue last year, says that the solution, as proposed, addresses the issue of justice non-systemically and treats different groups differently. In our Group of Members, we agree with the proposaler or the Ministry of Labour, which stands in the position that the various actual lives of the situation are sufficient and justified reasons for different legal arrangements in terms of setting different conditions for the enforcement of rights under law when it comes to the protection of family members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jenko. We have also concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments at the assembly could not be tabled. That is why I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made on Thursday, 6th, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. 3. In the context of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, it's a second-hand proposal for a law on the inspection of a piece. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to Minister Anji Kopač Mrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u168	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament! The law before you, the Labour Inspection Act, is in particular the technical and organisational regulation governing the organisational and procedural matters of the Republic of Slovenia Inspectorate for work which are not regulated by other general rules. The new proposal was prepared on the basis of an analysis of the implementation of the Labour Inspection and Analysis Act, which was completed in 2011 in cooperation with the Inspectorate and the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Enforcement. The analysis showed some difficulties in the work of the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia. The problems were mainly due to the non-compliance of the Labour Inspection Act with the Inspection Control Act, which was adopted later, but this is a more general and hierarchical rule. Further difficulties have been identified in defining and delimiting the powers of the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia to work in general and in relation to other institutions, in particular the Labour and Social Court and other inspection services. And, of course, the lack of adequate resources according to the scope of the work, leaving human resources malnutrition and inadequate inadequate or outdated equipment in certain areas. The key substantive innovations presented by the Proposal for a Labour Inspection Act are: a tripartite council of labour inspection, which will be composed of two representatives of the Government, i.e. a representative of the Ministry and Inspectorate, and two representatives of employers and representatives of employees. In doing so, we want to strengthen the role of the social partners. This world will have a consultative professional role. Its role will primarily be to monitor the implementation of the legislation in the field of work of the Inspectorate, as well as to adopt positions and recommendations for more efficient functioning of the Authority, and will be defined by the Inspectorate's annual report. A new institute of professional assistants is being introduced, which will be able to relieve inspectors of administrative tasks while at the same time professional assistants will be able to perform some simple tasks in the framework of inspection. In this way, we want to optimise the work of the inspectorate and within the individual inspectorate. The powers to control employment and employment in black shall, in accordance with the proposal for a law on the prevention of work and on employment, be transferred to the Customs Administration. However, the Inspectorate will maintain the possibility of issuing a prohibition decision in cases where it encounters a breach of the rules in this area and will then waive the matter to the competent authority. If I finish. The amendment of the law strengthens the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Work. This creates a better basis for better legal protection of workers' rights. This Act, amending other substantive rules, notably the Market Regulation Act, the Labour Relations Act, which has already been adopted, and also the draft Law on the Prevention of Work and Employment, provides better conditions for the work of the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia to be more effective and, of course, thereby protecting workers' rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u169	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u170	Thank you very much. The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities, as a working mother, considered the proposal for a Labour Inspection Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption on a regular basis. Meetings of the Committee were attended: representatives and representatives of the proposer with the State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, representative of the State Council, representative of the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia and representative of the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise of Slovenia. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined that proposal in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects. The legislative and legal service made comments to the draft law on an individual article – the main part of the comments was taken into account, adopted in the amendment proposal to the Committee – and additional comments were made by the Legislative and Legal Service on certain proposals for amendments. In its opinion, the Commission of the Council of State for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons supported the bill. The Commission was aware that the draft law was also coordinated with the social partners, although not all their comments were taken into account, but agreement was given on the bill. No amendments have been tabled and proposals for amendments to the Committee have been prepared. The representative briefly presented the main reasons for the adoption of the law, and the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the proposed amendments took more account of the comments made by their services, while in the course of the discussion she had additional comments mainly on the Committee's proposals for amendments to Articles 7, 14 and 23. In the debate on the individual articles of the draft law and the proposals for amendments to the Committee, the Legislative and Legal Service, under Article 7, highlighted the element of the proposed solution, which provides that the report should be forwarded to the National Assembly 3 months after the hearing. The question is why such a long period is needed, taking into account the fact that this is an inspectorate report and not a government report. The representative of the Government stressed that this was a deadline, which does not mean that the National Assembly could not have received the report earlier. A broader debate was held on Article 14 and on the proposal for an amendment to the Committee, with which the Inspectorate should give priority to the applications submitted by the Trade Union organised by the debtor. The legislative and legal service had concerns, as it found a questionable solution which would give priority to cases that would not be linked to the applicant's criteria. It considered that this was an approach which, by distinguishing the way in which different investors applied for applications, as well as the difference between the level of protection of workers, according to whether the syndicate was organised in relation to equality, was at the same time not explained in any way. Any distinction must be based on real, natural things expressed for reasons. These were not shown in the explanation, but even less presented. Most of the discussers agreed with the legislative and legal service's concern, as they considered such a distinction to be unfounded, since the applicant should not be a decisive factor in when an inspection should be decided on as a matter of priority. The Committee has adopted its amendments and, in the light of the amendments adopted, a complementary proposal for a law is also being prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Here comes the presentation of the parliamentary groups. On behalf of the Group of Positive Slovenia, he shall have the word mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u172	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. The grey economy is an atomic bomb for the social state, I said in another debate, which touched on one of the laws in the government's fight against the grey economy, which is also one of the commitments or priorities of the coalition treaty of this government. According to the available international analyses, Slovenia is in the upper third of the countries in terms of the extent of the grey economy. In 2011, it was expected to be 24.1% of the gross social product. According to the Slovenian government, work on the black or gray economy is expected to lose as much as €7 billion per year, which means that such legal measures are more than necessary. We are absolutely aware that the law itself will not solve the problem, but it can be a good basis for: firstly, more adequate protection of the weaker party in the process, which is the worker or workers, and secondly, to approach addressing the shortcomings in the system and functioning of the Labour Inspectorate. The Labour Inspection Act is a technical and organisational regulation, as we have already heard today, which means that it regulates only the functioning of an inspection for work and does not define infringements of labour and social legislation and so on. In the annual reports of the Labour Inspectorate, we read that the number of violations is increasing, that they are getting worse and, on the other hand, we are facing a serious shortage of inspectors, which also makes their presence on the ground questionable. If I look at only the labour inspectors, according to the Ministry of Labour, they are only 65 for the whole country – or I think that the representative of the inspectorate pointed out that according to the latest data in 2013 81. The situation has undoubtedly exacerbated the ZUJF in this area, but I believe that solutions in this law are also in the direction of finding answers to the needed corrections because of the ZUJF itself. According to the Chief Inspector, the number of applications in 2013 increased by 50% compared to the year before. This means that the ratio of division of cases to individual inspectors has further deteriorated. Therefore, the legal options do not sufficiently contribute to the effectiveness of inspectors in ensuring the legal protection of workers, in particular in the field of prevention of employment in black. Despite repeated changes and additions to the home law, at least the optimal level of detection and correction of errors and ensuring the legal safety of the employee has not yet been achieved. The new Labour Inspection Act was prepared on the basis of an analysis of the implementation of the Labour Inspection Act in the past and, of course, an analysis of its provisions, which was prepared in 2011 in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour, Ministry of Labour and Inspectorate, and as we have heard from the Minister today, this analysis was updated last year. This analysis has shown, in particular, some difficulties in the functioning of the Inspectorate itself, and we hope that this law will address certain shortcomings in terms of tackling and preventing the grey economy. The key innovations brought by the law are: greater involvement and role of social partners, a new institute of professional assistants to relieve inspectors of administrative tasks. Of course, I hope that this is a step in the direction that inspectors will be able to do their work up to date on the ground. Third key novelty: also the competence to control employment in black is transferred to the Customs Administration; criminal policy for offences is tightened, powers are extended, or the law also explicitly defines the area of social security services and so on. What is equally crucial from the point of view of the Inspectorate's findings so far is that the law defines and gives priority to dealing with the worst violations. In doing so, the government coalition was based solely on the need to protect workers. To this end, the amendment proposed by the coalition parties has also been adopted, which is, last but not least, the main purpose of the law itself. So, first of all, protect the worker. The Labour Inspection Act is said to be one of three parts of the government's legislation on combating the grey economy and, given the coherence of the law in Positive Slovenia, we support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u173	Thank you so much for this presentation. The next one is mag. Mr Andrej Vizjak on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u174	Your Honor! We will support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, especially because we are actually identifying the added value that this law brings in terms of organisational and other solutions related to the inspection of work. We also very much distinguish between what is a gray economy and that this law has nothing to do with the grey economy or the prevention of black work. By the way, it's a good idea to know you. The grey economy or the black work is business or the operation of individuals, entities without registration, without reporting to the tax service, in short, some landscaping, work without permission and without paying taxes. The labour inspectorate controls employment in black and non-grey economies, as well as it does not work in black, because it is under the authority of the Tax Administration, we are talking about the grey economy and work in black, and market inspections, not inspections for work. So it's very nice to know and separate these things and that this law has no connection in a three-pack against the government's grey economy. When we talk about the solutions brought by this law, of course, we welcome the introduction of a professional assistant who will also be able to carry out part of the determination procedure carried out so far only by an inspector. For example, he will be able to go to the construction site, describe the workers they were working on, and, of course, he will make it very easy for the inspector to do so. In short, even a handful of some will be able to be done by someone else and this will contribute to greater efficiency. We also welcome the clearer delimitation of powers and the determination of powers in connection with the labour inspection and the labour and social court. I think it is right here for more things to be transferred to work inspection, especially when we are talking about claims or payments of workers' salaries for work done within the prescribed deadlines. We also welcome the inclusion of the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia in the supervision of this area; in short, it is the Customs Administration that is given new and additional powers. So these are things that are positive. But then we need to draw attention to further issues that this law does not solve, and we could. Indeed, today, in times of economic crisis, we are faced with indeed even an invasion by inspectors of various legally functioning economic operators, and very little is the detection of this so-called grey economy by the competent other inspections. In short, the Customs Administration, when visiting various locations even after several times a month, is particularly attentive to those few that have nothing to do with the problems in the country, while no one is overly involved in the coordination of various inspection services in the field, so that certain economic operators are now given inspections of one, now another, even within one week or one day they can be visited by as many as three different inspectors for three different things. I believe that greater coordination and integration of inspection services and some tolerance for economic operators is essential, that economic operators must work and create in this country first so that they can also pay salaries and contributions. We also welcome the fact that it is important to focus on the essential infringements, not to mow and look for a seam in a haystack when it is only to find some irregularity in a well-functioning economic operator. Of course, we are also witnessing an escalation or increase and an increasing incidence of infringements of workers' rights, which is an essential task of the labour inspection. This is mainly because there are no jobs. And those workers who are in jobs are, of course, exposed to a number of abuse by the employer; but if they do not fit, leave and leave, for a number of people who do not have a job are waiting for you. Therefore, measures for economic growth and jobs are also a very important measure to reduce infringements of labour law. At this point, I would like to point out to the Minister that we have taken a decision on the Committee about a month ago that the Government should prepare some concrete measures to increase economic activity for new jobs, and we expect such a programme to come to life and not least solve a whole set of problems in connection with infringements of workers' rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u175	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u176	Once again, a nice hello. We have before us a proposal for a new labour inspection law based on an analysis of the implementation of the provisions so far in force. For the sake of clarity, I should like to point out from the outset that this law does not define infringements of labour, social or any other legislation, as this is regulated by relevant substantive laws such as the Labour Relations Act, the Labour Market Regulation Act, the Social Protection Act and so on. The proposal for a Labour Inspection Act lays down a single legal basis for the organisation and functioning of the Labour Inspectorate and brings certain burdens and staffing reinforcements to the Inspectorate, which will make it possible for the Inspectorate to work more effectively. We have also observed in the media these days that the new inspectorate will no longer be a toothless tiger. The law thus introduces the Institute of Professional Assistants, which will relieve inspectors of administrative tasks as well as easier tasks in the framework of inspection. An important burden will also be brought about by the amendment of the Law on the Prevention of Employment and Work in Black, which provides that the power to control employment is transferred to the Customs Administration. The law has been coordinated with the social partners and the result of these coordinations is also a tripartite inspection board as a consultative expert body that will monitor the legislation implemented and adopt its views and recommendations for the more effective functioning of the inspectorate. The Council will be composed three-partitely of two government representatives, employers and employees. The only article that was not fully agreed upon was Article 24 of the Law. The representative of the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia insisted on the provision that the inspectorate should give priority to the applications submitted by the members of the union or at least the union organised by the debtor. With regard to the proposed solution, the Legislative and Legal Service has presented its concerns as it would be preferable to deal with the application of a type of applicant without the actual reasons given to it to be disputed in terms of the constitutional right to equality before the law. At the same time, it also raised the issue of inequalities between those workers who do not have an organised union with their employer. After a lengthy discussion, the Maternal Committee adopted an amendment setting out the priority treatment of all applications from which there is no doubt that the conditions for issuing the prohibition of a decision referred to in Article 19 of the Act will be met or that there is a violation of the rights of a large number of employees to the debtor on the basis of the control rules under which the Inspectorate is responsible. We support and hope that the Social Democrats will really help reduce backlogs and the more effective part of the labour inspection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u177	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Mr Branko Kurnjek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u178	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Madam Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! Not only because of the crisis, but also or mainly because of it, the Labour Inspectorate is facing an increasing number of infringements of labour law, but also with new emerging forms of infringements. Given the marked trend of increasing the reporting of infringements on labour law and social legislation, this cannot be said for the staff of inspectors, as we have heard a little earlier that this is only 81 inspectors. In order to make the work of the competent supervisory services more effective, a new labour market inspection law had to be drawn up. Since it is largely based on analyses in cooperation with the Inspectorate, it can be expected to cover the solutions to the problems actually encountered by inspectors in practice. The law improves the organisation, powers and functions of the inspectorate, as well as the acquisition of powers of inspectors, control procedures and, of course, measures against violators. The law also eliminates duplication and non-compliance with the Inspection Control Act. With a view to reducing the previously mentioned human resources malnutrition of the body itself and increasing efficiency, the law introduces a professional assistant. However, the professional assistant will not replace the work and powers of the inspector, but will provide professional assistance in accordance with the law and accept applications and initiatives for the initiation of the procedure and under the supervision of the inspector will be able to remedy certain procedural actions. In the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, we are aware of the need for effective protection of the rights of employees, and in this light we support the proposed measures of the Government or the Ministry of State. At the same time, we are aware that all these measures without realisation, without practical implementation, mean nothing more than a dead point on paper, so it is important that appropriate organisational measures are and will be put in place to ensure that current and future inspectors are more present on the ground, and that they are able to work independently and professionally and consequently to make legitimate decisions. The draft law also represents the Labour Inspection Board, a three-partite expert body appointed by the Minister responsible for the work. The competences of the Council will be to adopt views and recommendations for more effective operation of the labour inspection. The amendment to Article 14 has already been mentioned today. So, in the debate on the parental committee, we have paid a lot of attention to this article, but it itself speaks of the introduction of the inspection procedure. Following the initial amendment proposal, the inspectorate should give priority to the applications submitted by the union, in cases where the conditions for the issuing of the prohibition provision referred to in Article 19 of this Act are met, or when the rights of a greater number of employees in the debtor would be violated. In this case, it should be pointed out that, in the light of these two circumstances, there is no way that priority treatment may depend on the applicant for the application, but that the inspectorate must deal with such cases on its own grounds as a matter of priority and independently of the applicant for the infringement. In this respect, the position of the Legislative and Legal Service was also expressed. We believe that union representatives had a good purpose, but listening to their wishes would necessarily mean that non-member unions, as well as employees in companies where the union is not organised, would put them in an unequal or worse position. In fact, at the end of the discussion on this article, it appeared that the new second paragraph of Article 14 would not be necessary at all. However, regardless of the latter, the law was created in cooperation with and with the support of the social partners. That is also why we will support the law in the Civil Gazette. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u179	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Michael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u180	Thanks again for saying that. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will be pleased to support the amended proposal for a law on inspection of work in the hope that this will take a step forward towards eliminating the non-compliance with the provisions of the laws and collective agreements on workers' rights, in particular with regard to salaries and monetary benefits and non-payment of social security contributions. Of course, we also expect better efficiency in the field of prevention of black employment. The lack of inspection supervision and depriving of the powers of inspectors have in the past certainly led to a number of violations of labour law. Nevertheless, sufficient inspectors must also be provided if we are to achieve the objectives of this law. The lack of adequate personnel has certainly been one of the causes of many injustices and the spread of the grey economy and work in black. Some innovations will help to make the inspection more effective, but we also support innovations that help workers, such as the fact that the inspector, in carrying out the supervision in a particular case of an injured worker, points out that it is competent for the court to decide and direct him to exercise his rights before the court. We also hope that the work of the so-called professional assistants, which will relieve inspectors of certain, in particular, administrative tasks, will contribute to the more efficient work of the inspectors. We also hope that the adoption of positions and recommendations to improve the functioning of the labour inspection and the work of inspectors will also contribute to the three-partite, expert board of the labour inspection board of the competent ministry, so that it will not become just a "one more commission" or one more inefficient body. In crisis situations and at a time when we have more than 130 000 unemployed in the country, the state must be aware that we need effective control to prevent any attempts to exploit the plight of workers and the unemployed. This law is certainly also important in relation to the prevention of work and employment in black, which has a number of negative consequences for workers and the state treasury. The amended proposal for the Labour Inspection Act brings solutions based on practice and experience from the past, and is also consistent with the social partners. Appropriate additions have been adopted on the home committee, which shows that this is one of the few laws which will receive the unanimous or strong support of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u181	Thank you very much, Mr. Prevec. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u182	Thank you for your word – again. The DeSUS Group has repeatedly pointed out the importance of effective inspection in the field of labour law. The fact is that this type of inspection is primarily about the protection of labour rights or about ensuring the legal security of employees. The second aspect of the infringement of labour law is also reflected significantly in the smaller inflows to tax, pension, health and social treasury, as work is a problem that is firmly rooted in the grey economy, black and all other forms of the grey economy, and the fight against it is hard and requires a comprehensive approach across all sectoral legislation. At one of the previous meetings of the National Assembly, we carried out the first reading of the new Law on Prevention of Work and Employment in Black, aimed at strengthening the supervision of individual competent inspection services on the ground, with higher sanctions to deter potential offenders from abuse of workers and with substantively clear material provisions to provide a basis for more efficient work by supervisory authorities. If inspection alone is weak and if its powers are distorted, material legislation, even if it is so well placed, cannot live. Not only that; if the supervisory authorities do not have the appropriate legal powers, this is very beneficial for violating legislation and exploiting legal voids. It is therefore important that, in addition to good material regulations, we also have the appropriate procedural levers to ensure that the response of inspectors against violators is as effective as possible. The aim of the law before us today is to improve the organisation, powers and tasks of the Labour Inspectorate. In the DeSUS Group, of course, we fully support the law, as we assess that the key problems encountered so far in the work of the Labour Inspectorate are properly regulated. We particularly welcome the establishment of the Institute of Professional Assistants, which is an important step towards strengthening the inspection service in a number of ways. With 44 inspectors responsible for overseeing working relations throughout the country, this is the data from the RS Inspectorate's 2012 Labour Report, because human resources malnutrition is more than obvious and we believe that such a limited supervisory service cannot perform its work thoroughly in all transparent places, which is around 187 000 business entities. Following a proposal from the law, the professional assistant will relieve the administrative inspector, who will be able to focus more on field work. As we say, in the DeSUS Group, we will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u183	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jenko. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u184	Dear President, Minister, colleague and colleague! In Slovenia, at least after feeling, there are many cases of violations of labour law. We Christian Democrats believe that this is often not due to poor legislation in this area, but mainly to a lack of ethics and morality in employers and other commitments to respect labour law. The new Slovenia clearly states in its programme that it advocates the inclusion of European standards in our labour legislation regarding the provision of working conditions, working hours, leave, protection at work, conditions of employment or termination of employment. However, regulating working conditions that go beyond these standards must take place in a dialogue between employers and workers or their associations or unions. We support collective agreements as an important legal source and social dialogue as a form of cooperation and mutual dispute resolution. In our view, the Labour Inspectorate plays a very important role in ensuring respect for laws, both through appropriate criminal policy and through preventive and advisory work. In our view, the novelty that we have before us is basically pointing in the right direction, which could strengthen inspection and clearly determine the competences of labour inspectors. Important information is also the fact that the draft law was supported by representatives of employers and employees in the debate. However, we Christian Democrats are held back to at least two of the solutions proposed by the amendment. We wonder whether the new body, namely the world of labour inspection, will be the right response to the challenges of time. The establishment of new and new bodies, the worlds within the public sector, in our view, is not a solution, but has the opposite effect; procedures only extend and make them less transparent. The introduction of the possibility of the assistance of professional assistants is also risky in our view. It may well be that these assistants, instead of actually decommissioning administration inspectors and other tasks, will double this work and thereby slow down the procedures. The Government should closely monitor the implementation of the law in practice and take into account the comments made by the inspectors in the light of the newly established decisions. Members of New Slovenia will not object to the news.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u185	Thank you very much, Mrs. Dimic. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, so we are concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision will be made on Thursday in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're going to continue with 3. At the end of the day, it is by way of defence a bill on changes and supplements to the law on colloidal lipids. The draft law was submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for further explanation of the bill by the State Secretary. Tanji Strniša.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u186	Dear Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to begin by reminding you that Kobilirna Lipica is the original cobile horse of the lipican species, while at the same time the top professional institution and the central kobile lipicans in the world, while the international horse center with protected values of cultural landscape in the environment of the historically protected building core and the karst landscape. The Government follows the direction of the Court of Auditors and wants to arrange the following: the extension of the Breeding Core of the Horses of Lipica to Kobilna Lipica to at least 80 tribal mare; the expansion of breeds of breeding mares in a cobreed with the new Rebecca Thais; the deletion of a provision allowing the public institution to establish a company with limited liability; a more precise definition of what the public service and economic activities related to public service are; sources of public funding and the possibility of temporary financing after twelve; and the establishment of a procedure for the adoption of the work programme and the development and annual report; the organisation of a public institution to coordinate with the Public Finance Act, so as not to show capital investment in business books; the delimitation of immovable property in the protected area of the Kobilarna Lipica to the immovable property used for its operations in the context of the administrative transition of the Council; and the non-transposition of the non-profit system. Finally, I would like to point out that the basic leadership of the competent ministry and government in preparing this law, as well as in further activities, was the protection and protection of the Lipican. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u187	Thank you very much, Secretary of State for presenting the Government's position. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment as a working body by the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Branko Ficko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u188	Nice hello to you all! The Committee on Agriculture considered the Law on Kobilana Lipica as a working body at its 31st meeting, on 5 February 2014. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which made specific comments on certain provisions of the bill, which led to the drafting and adoption of amendments by the coalition groups. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the State Council, which supports the proposal for a law. While the members of the Committee supported the proposed legislative text, some members pointed out that this was too ambitious because they expected much more than compliance with the requirements of the 2012 Court of Auditors audit report. We are actually returning to 1996 when the Kobilana Lipica Act was adopted, and we are correcting the mistakes of 2007 when Lipica's economic tourism company was established with the amendment of the law in order to take care of economic and tourist activities in Lipica. The bill does not offer a real vision of what the future development of Lipica will be, nor does it offer the right content with regard to the further development of tourism activities in Lipica. Many dilemmas and questions are being raised mainly as to what the fate of tourism in Lipica will be if the Ministry of Resort is not able to attract a new tenant for the long-term distribution of properties for hosting and hotel activities before the Lipice is wiped out. In this case, it may even happen that tourism in Lipica will soon be no more. It has also been pointed out that in the past there has been a lot of confusion about what to give in Lipica the advantage: horse lipican or tourism. It is of concern that the proposed novel does not solve this basic issue, nor does it provide appropriate starting points on the basis of which a strategy for the development of cobial and not guidelines for the development of tourism in it could be drawn up. In addition to tourism-related issues, some other issues remain in the draft law, in particular the way in which the real estate boundary is resolved. It is also unclear in which direction the golf course will develop, and to what extent the proposed legal text is in general consistent with the local community, particularly in the work relating to the single management of the property by the public institution and the abolition of the status of the influential area. All these issues are considered to be so difficult that they will not be resolved quickly or easily. In conclusion, it is particularly clear that the board of the institution, whose members were also representatives of more ministries, did not carry out their tasks, since the supervision of the operation and functioning of the public institution was inadequate or insufficient, and in some cases it was not at all. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of the Committee's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u189	Thank you very much, Mr. Fick. It is the turn of the delegations' positions and Mr Tomaž Lisec has the first word on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u190	Thank you, Vice President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry! We are adopting a law, where it is not yet clear what we want with it, so in the SDS we renounce its support. Although the law has some minor corrections and good extensions, we still do not know what to do and how to deal with lipican and tourism in particular; and this is the key dilemma of Kobilar Lipice and the proposal for a law does not give this answer. We're not the only ones who have doubts about this marriage. Many of the concerns have already been raised at the working-body meeting itself, and it is clear in this report that almost the entire debate has been about all the concerns and the law itself does not bring solutions. In the SDS Group, it seems to us that Article 4 of the Law Amendment is crucial, and allow me to read it: "Despite the previous paragraph, the Ministry responsible for agriculture shall, by prior consent of the Government, rent the immovable property of the protected area which is not intended to carry out the public service tasks referred to in Articles 11a and 11b of this Act and for economic activities related to the public society referred to in Article 17c of this Law up to and including 50 years." and then it goes on to say, "the income from the real estate transfer is the revenue of the state budget and is intended for the construction, purchase, renovation and investment and ongoing maintenance of state-owned property." In short, something was to be done, for a period of 50 years, but we do not know anything or anyone or purpose or what these funds would be used for. We believe that the government in this area is playing with the fate of Kobilarna Lipica, and that the question will probably be that – sooner than a chicken or an egg or a horse or tourism – remains blurred, this law does not bring this solution, and we expect that next time the government will come with a law that will also represent this solution. There are doubts, but there is no solution, so we cannot support the law in the SDS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u191	Thank you very much, Mr. Fox. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Mirko Brulc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u192	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Group of Social Democrats we will support the proposed amendment of the Law on Kobilina Lipica. Since the adoption of the basic law in 1996, Kobilena Lipica and its status solutions have been widely mentioned, and various solutions have been adopted, but the actual situation shows that the current status regime is inappropriate. We therefore hope that this amendment, following the recommendations of the Court of Auditors, will regulate the status of Kobilarna Lipica as a cultural historical monument. We must not forget that Kobilna Lipica is the only cultural monument of national importance that has been proclaimed by independent law. Legislation in this area is very important because it preserves the integrity and national importance of the cobial plant, which was established in 1580. The Law follows in particular the recommendations of the Court of Auditors and leaves open its hands to the Government to address the issue of the return of the capital investment of Lipica tourism and the transfer of real estate intended for tourism and hospitality activities. The objectives of the proposed amendment of the Law on Kobilier Lipica are: to extend the breeding core of the horses of Lipica, to extend the breeds of breeding horses to Kobilirna Lipica, to remove the decision allowing Kobilier Lipica to establish a d.o.o., to define more precisely the public service and economic activities related to the public service, to define the management bodies, to define sources of funding for Kobilar Lipica and to allow for temporary funding after twelve, and to establish a procedure for the adoption of the programme of work and the development of the annual report, to carry out economic activities related to public service and employees, from Lipica to tourism, d.o.o., to Kobilar Lipica, to align the organisation of Kobilar Lipica with the Law on public finances, to the delimitation of immovable property in the protected area of the Kobiler Lipica to immovable property contracts, to the functioning of the collarna Lipica Region, to the public institution, to the coordination of the coordination of the organisation of the Cobilarna Lipica with the Law on the Law on the economic infrastructure for the transfer of the commercial infrastructure for the transfer of its host territory and to the tourist territory, to the tourism to the territory and to the territory. It is interesting that from the Trade Union of Restaurant Workers and Tourism informing us about some of their positions and reminding the Minister that Lipica tourism will literally shut down and that the work will lose 35 workers. To this end, let me read only the 6th article, which says: "Until the award of the property for the conduct of the catering and hotel activities in the long term, the Ministry responsible for agriculture, with Lipica tourism, d. o.o., shall conclude a contract for the rental of the tourist infrastructure, which shall be used by Lipica tourism on the date of the application of this Act, d. o. o. "So, Lipica tourism will not be extinguished and will be able to carry out its activities during this transitional period. As has already been said in the Parliamentary Group, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Kobilarn Lipica. Since Kobilirna Lipica is a cultural monument of national importance, Lipiscan is one of the Slovenian symbols, also depicted on the Slovenian euro coin for 20 cents, and we hope that we will find marriage solutions and courage enough to restore Lipica's glow, not only in the form of a new colored fence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u193	Thank you very much, Mr. Brultz. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Mr Branko Kurnjek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u194	Thank you again for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Madam Secretary with co-workers, Members and Members of Parliament! The primary objective and main task of Kobilarna Lipica is to provide excellent services in the field of lipic and horse husbandry, as well as the protection, conservation and development of cultural and natural heritage. In addition to these activities, Kobilna Lipica, which has the status of cultural monument of national importance, is one of the most significant Slovenian tourist destinations of the world reputation. Tourism is also one of the main engines of the cobial plant and, on the other hand, it can also be an obstacle, since it is limited to its primary objective, i.e. the production of lips. The new law, which follows the observations or findings of the Court of Auditors with its additions, brings some significant changes or innovations. In the field of breeding, the bill increases the breeding core of the herd in the cobial with at least 48 so far to at least 80 breeding mares, and the breed of breeding mares will also be extended. Enlargement is needed due to increased genetic diversity and the prevention of genetic disorders. The amendment of the law deletes the provision under which Kobilna Lipica may have established a limited liability company. The tasks of the public service and the public service associated with the economic activity in the cobial are precisely defined by the proposal and are inseparably linked to the farming of the Lipiceans and the management of the protected area and cultural heritage. The draft law specifies the composition of the cobalt management bodies and defines their tasks and the conditions for their appointment for the Council and the Director. Real estate not directly linked to the performance of the public service will be allowed to be leased in the long term, with the agreement of the Government, which will also allow investments in their reconstruction and development. The possibility of investing private capital in these properties also offers great opportunities for developing from a tourist point of view and raising tourism offers to a higher level. I would like to point out another amendment to the bill. The possibility is written down that in the future traditional branding may be replaced by labelling by chipping. We need to look at this from an ethical point of view, as in modern times classical labelling can also be seen as animal torture. Besides, I know that I represent the position of the Group of Members, but if I could have any option, I would immediately support such a change in practice. With regard to Kobilar Lipica, unfortunately, there has been much to be heard in the Slovenian public in recent years, especially in terms of negative assessments and problems with management, financial situation, and ultimately with the death or health of horses. In the Civil Gazette, we hope that the proposed amendments to the law will help in both the basic and tourist activities of Kobilarna Lipica. We will support the bill in the Civil Gazette. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u195	Thank you very much for your position. Mr Janez Ribič is next in line with the position of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u196	Thank you for your word. Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Representative of the Government, Honourable Member and Members of Parliament! Almost two years after a very burdensome audit report by the Court of Auditors regarding the situation in Kobilna Lipica and its associated company Lipica tourism, we have been awaiting a proposal for amendments to the bill of arms, which we are somewhat disappointed with in the Slovenian People's Party Group in spite of some good solutions. Let me explain why. The proposal for the novel Leipzig Law focuses only on the most urgent solutions that address the most important shortcomings pointed out by the Court of Auditors. It is therefore necessary to prohibit the establishment of companies by a public agency and to define more precisely the public service tasks and economic activities related to the public service. It is also provided for the delimitation of property in the protected area of cobalt as well as the free use of property owned by the Republic of Slovenia, which was used for the conduct of the public service and economic activities related to the public service, by the cobalt and the conclusion of a lease contract between the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment and the company Lipica Tourism, d.o.o., for the properties that this company holds in use. In addition to these amendments, the proposed law further reduces the number of members of the Public Service Council, regulates the conditions of temporary funding in the event of the Government's unwieldy consent to the annual programme of work and development of the cobalt and extends the breeding centre of the lipican herd to at least 80 tribal mares. So the difference between the last provision and the proposed law are focusing only on the main shortcomings of the current situation in Kobilna Lipica, while we still do not have a strategy and vision, in what way will Lipico develop – will this be in the direction of preserving the cultural heritage, which is priceless in Lipica, or in the direction of commercialisation of services? The fact is that the situation in Lipica has deteriorated since 2007. It only stabilized in the last year when the current leadership rolled up its sleeves and made some difficult but urgent decisions to keep society above water. According to Members of the Slovenian People's Party, the strategy for the development of Lipica tourism should be clearly defined, as its fate in the event of a timely action in the search for a strategic investor to provide sufficient resources for the further development of infrastructure in Lipica is quite uncertain. The absence of a strategic reflection on further fate is also noted by the Court of Auditors, which warns against the consequences of Lipica's uncontrolled bankruptcy in the event that the State does not find a strategic partner willing to invest in the development of Lipica tourism by the end of the year. Unfortunately, there is no guidance in the proposed law on how and how to ensure the development of both co-balancing and tourism activities, which we regret in our group. We can only hope that the competent ministry will have a happy hand in finding a tenant to seek economic activity or other activities unrelated to the performance of the public service. Notwithstanding the concerns expressed in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we do not intend to oppose the proposed changes, as they represent a minimum compromise that improves the current situation. At the same time, we call on the Government to do everything it can to ensure that Kobilna Lipica and all its associated tourist activities do not land at the historical site. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. Fish. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, the position will be presented by mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u198	Thank you for your word. In its 2012 audit report, the Court of Auditors found that the behaviour of Kobilar Lipica and the Government in the establishment of Lipica was ineffective and uneconomic. This report, however, is important because the conclusions presented therein are based on the proposal for amendments and the addition of the Kobile Lipica Act. Thus, the proposed amendment to the Law on Kobilirana Lipica deletes a provision which has so far allowed the collegiate to establish companies with limited liability. As a result, Lipica will have to shut down tourism. In addition, the proposal allows the transmission of immovable property which is not used for the performance of the public service and which is intended for hosting and hosting activities through a call for tender. The organisation of the public office Kobilarn Lipica is defined, which will be composed of a unit of cobillary which will perform public service and a unit of tourism which will market products on the market. The governing bodies will be defined, namely the Director, the 7-member Council and the 5-member Council of Experts. The novel will extend the breeding core of the Lipis from the previous 48 to at least 80 tribal mares, and will also increase the number of classical breeds of mares from the present 16 to 17. Even though we will support Ambassadors and Members of the DeSUS Group of the bill proposal, we expected the content of the law to be more ambitious. Thus, we are simply returning to 1996 when the Law on Kobilirana Lipica was adopted and correcting the mistakes of 2007 when Lipica's economic tourism company was established with the amendment of the law in order to take care of economic and tourist activities in Lipica. We regret that the bill does not offer any real vision of what the future development of Lipica will be, nor does it offer the right content, regarding the further development of tourism activities in Lipica. At the same time, we wonder why it is so difficult to maintain and successfully run such a public institution as Kobilna Lipica. An example of successful management of a similar cobial plant in Austria is known, where famous lipicans are also raised. And here, the similarities between the two masonry end more or less. While the Slovenian state does not know very well how to manage the cultural, historical and natural heritage represented by the Lipi cobile as a cradle of Lipican horses, Austria has undertaken by special law to care for the permanent existence of the cobile Pyber and the famous Spanish riding school in Vienna. If, years ago, both Austrian institutions operated with up to 3 million losses annually, they created 30,000 euros in profits before last year. Over time, this Austrian cobalt company from a state-owned company has turned into a stock company and is now operating positively because they are themselves responsible for their business, which means they have to make rational decisions. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that it would be time to stop political recruitment and setting up "our" and "your" directors and put an expert at the head of the institution who will be able to draw the best out of this public institution to make it a successful, recognizable and well-functioning one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u199	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jenko. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u200	Dear Chairman, Secretary of State with a team, colleagues and colleagues! Lipica is one of the most recognizable brands in Slovenia, and unfortunately has been pushed aside and down in recent years. In our opinion, the reasons are different. Obviously, in Slovenia, we do not know how to do well, manage our brands well, and the situation is what we have. In the case of Kobilarna Lipica, the main issue is strategic management. We believe that Christian Democrats must be strategically primary, the priority of Lipica Horses, i.e. Lipica. All tourism and other economic activity must, in our view, act as a support activity for the primary sector. So far stagnation or a more clairvoyant state of cobalt shows that solutions have been inappropriate and have not contributed to the development of basic activities. We visited the Postojna Cave in the framework of field visits with the New Slovenia Group. We were pleasantly surprised at how things worked there. Part of tourism revenues, 35%, are deliberately invested in infrastructure. This can be an example of good practice for regulating the management of tourism activities in Lipica as well. A potential concessionaire may be obliged to return to its primary activity, i.e. horseback, what percentage of tourism revenues. Christian Democrats believe that Kobilna Lipica should remain one whole, not to be separated into a public and private, profitable part of the feast. However, it is possible to award the guest part to concession if the public institution is not able to demonstrate in a short time that a profitable activity can be carried out successfully and in the well-being of the public cultural part of Kobilarna Lipica. With our inheritance, we are obliged to act more responsibly. The New Slovenia Group will not oppose the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u201	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Mr Branko Ficko, Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u202	Thank you, Madam President. Say good-bye again! Both public debate and coordination between coalition partners have demonstrated, in many ways, conflicting views on cobalan and related solutions. As a result, the proposaler had to prepare a number of draft draft draft novels since the public debate last summer. Only changes in the direction of corrective measures imposed by the Court of Auditors are presented in the hearing or before us. The bill therefore constitutes a minimal possible intervention. This is how we will support the proposed legislative solutions in Positive Slovenia in most cases due to the requests of the Court of Auditors, but we note that the way in which the state co-balancing is managed will again be similar to what has already been said since 1996, or we return to the regime that was meant to prevent privatisation at the time of adoption. In Positive Slovenia, we regret that the proposaler has given up ambition to explore the possibilities of carrying out economic activities in the form of a public-private partnership. The new law provides for the award of real estate for a Leipzig-hotel activity for a maximum of 50 years and, in the meantime, the competent ministry will conclude a rental contract with Lipica tourism in order to continue hosting and tourism activities. In Positive Slovenia, we believe that under the unchanged protection regime in Lipica, catering and tourism activities will be very difficult to rent, and organizational breakdown will make it difficult to develop the entire complex. The protection regime and the affected area are still maintained in an unaltered form. In doing so, it should be noted that catering and tourist facilities cannot be classified as cultural monuments and it is pointless to protect them. The Court of Auditors itself points out that the protection of a cultural monument or a protected area in part of land not intended for the public service must be revised. Although Kobilna Lipica is exposed as a carrier of tourism in Slovenia, she has been declared a cultural monument of state importance and, in fact, is a state mare, we are still not able to follow similar patterns in Austria and could still be listed. Unfortunately, then, after 18 years, there is no single and imaginary vision of Lipica's development. Of course, the financial work of the operation of Lipice tourism remains open from the irregularities identified, as it has not been performed by members of the board of the institution as the supervisory authority, not to mention a disputed recapitalisation of EUR 1.5 million. All future decisions will, of course, depend on the positive or negative operation of Lipica tourism, so that we do not think about black scenarios. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u203	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. No amendments to the amended law have been tabled here either, so we are concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timing of the meeting on Thursday in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. At the end of the day, it's a defensive motion for a resolution on the protection of cranberry bees. The motion for a resolution has been tabled by the Government and for further explanation, please the Secretary of State, Mrs Mag. Tanja Strniša.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u204	Thank you, Madam President. Beekeeping is very important as a single agricultural activity. With its multi-purpose mission, it has a significant impact on other agricultural sectors and cultural landscapes and, most importantly, on the preservation of natural balance and the quality of the environment. The most important impacts on the environment include pollination of plants and, as a result, impact on the volume of crops in agriculture. It is also an invaluable architectural and cultural heritage – beekeeping and painting of panama limbs, which other nations do not know about beekeeping. It is therefore appropriate to obtain a special place by means of the Resolution on the Protection of the Carniolan Bee, which the Government proposes for the adoption of the National Assembly. Our awareness of the importance of bees and beekeeping has been reflected in the concern for the full support of Slovenian beekeeping at all levels and is therefore included as priorities of the Ministry responsible for agriculture. Let me remind you that the Cranian bee in Slovenia is protected under the livestock law, which is defined in Article 68 as an indigenous breed and Article 70 provides for its special protection. This recognises Slovenia's right to care for the indigenous population of the Kranje bee. Despite all the support for Slovenian beekeeping, more recently new critical areas have emerged that require an additional approach to resolution. This resolution sets out the vision and objectives for the protection of carnations in the coming period and presents a response to the challenges facing modern beekeeping. In this way, together with the professional institutions and stakeholders, we have prepared this resolution to provide a framework for policy decision-making, which relates to the preservation of the short bee in Slovenia. The resolution contains an assessment of the problems and objectives for the management of beekeeping policy, refers to sustainable agriculture with a broad understanding of the role and the importance of the short bee for Slovenia. Its main purpose is to define comprehensively the priority development issues and to offer the policy a starting point for additional measures to preserve the bee. This resolution can also be used in the preparation of various further documents on the protection of bees and bees. The resolution will thus complement the existing measures for beekeeping with a long-term objective of maintaining the cranium bee in Slovenia also for future generations of beekeepers, covering the field of beekeeping technology, the marketing of bee crops, health care of bees, the breeding of bees and the education of beekeepers. Thus, the main objective of this resolution is to maintain the breed purity of the short bee while maintaining the existing biological diversity, as it is essential that the population of the carnivore bee in Slovenia retain and establish conditions that will protect it from the pressures of neighbouring bees. The second main objective of this resolution is to maintain a balanced and sufficient population of bee families throughout Slovenia. We want to have at least 150,000 bee families, so we need to make it possible to maximize the use of bee feeds, reduce the loss of bee families due to disease and other influences, ensure permanent health care and control of bee families, and encourage beekeeping.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u205	Thank you very much. The motion for a resolution was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Vice-President, Mr Zvonk Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u206	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment considered the motion for a resolution on the protection of carnations as its parent working body at its 31st meeting on 5 February this year. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the State Council, which also supports the motion for a resolution. Representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, the State Council, the Beekeeping Union of Slovenia, the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia and the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the meeting of the Committee. In the debate, the members of the Committee supported the motion for a resolution and assessed it as a good basis for the preparation of further measures in beekeeping. Support is also expressed for the efforts and work of the Beekeeping Union of Slovenia, in particular in the education of beekeepers in the field of bee health care and strengthening interest in this activity among young farmers. In view of the fact that the cranberry bee is one of the strong national brands and that beekeeping can also compete on external claims, it is essential that the activity is given an appropriate place in legislation, particularly in the Agricultural Act. It would also make sense to provide for the possibility of beekeeping on farms as a complementary activity, which would undoubtedly contribute to ensuring adequate income for small farms in areas with limited farming factors. The debate particularly highlights the growing awareness that beekeeping is no longer just a fan of beekeeping and not only an agricultural activity, but is an increasingly promising business activity that is closely linked to education, tourism and environmental protection and can be an example of other activities. Given its importance, it is essential that the country also actively contributes to its development, in particular by reducing bureaucratic barriers and simplifying the tendering conditions for the invitation to tender for technical equipment in beekeeping. It was also pointed out that beekeeping is not only a matter of the agricultural sector, but also of the Spatial Planning Act, which puts many obstacles ahead of this activity. In fact, under this law all buildings must be built on communally equipped land, which means a barrier to the construction of beekeepers who also need water, electricity and other. It would therefore be necessary for the field of beekeeping to be properly regulated in all the laws governing this activity in any way. In addition to commendations and recognitions, the opinion was expressed that the motion for a resolution did not show what the strategic objectives of protecting the bee are and what vision it brings to beekeepers as well as the protection of the bees. The two strategic objectives of the resolution are to preserve the indigenous population of the cranberry bee and its diversity and to maintain a uniform and sufficient population with bee families throughout Slovenia. They are only recorded at the general, declaration level. As the National Assembly adopts national programmes in specific areas on the basis of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly by resolution, it is noted that there is no binding objectives and tasks in the field of beekeeping in the coming period in this document. Therefore, the motion for a resolution can only be seen as a moral support for beekeepers, what actual support will be, and will be shown when legislative proposals are considered to regulate the further development of beekeeping. After the discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to the coalition parliamentary groups. In view of the amendments adopted, the text of the supplementary motion for a resolution, which includes the amendments adopted, is prepared. The updated motion for a resolution is an integral part of this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u207	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Mirko Brulc has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u208	Your Honor! In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposed Resolution on the Protection of the Cranium Bee. Kranjska bee, including Kranjska sivka, is an indigenous bee breed created in the territory of Slovenia. We will also find it in the territory of wider Koroška and Stajerska, including Austria, Hungary, Romania, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia and Germany, and elsewhere. Currently, the second most common bee breed in the world is widely used in beekeeping. The resolution gives the crown bee additional importance and additional protection, as well as the policy frameworks implemented by the State in this area. The resolution, however, complements the existing measures, which include, in particular, beekeeping and marketing, bee protection, bee mammoth breeding, bee grazing and beekeeping education. In the resolution on the protection of the cranberry bee, there are two important objectives; the first objective is to maintain a breed of pure cranberry while preserving the existing variety and the second main objective is to maintain a balanced and sufficient population of bee families throughout Slovenia. The goal is to preserve at least 150,000 bee families. The resolution will complement the existing measures for beekeeping with the long-term goal of maintaining the cranberry bee in Slovenia also for future generations of beekeepers. As has already been said, we will be happy to support the proposed resolution in the Group of Social Democrats. As we often hear, when the bees are gone, there will be no more humanity. Let's make sure that doesn't happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u209	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Mr Branko Kurnjek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u210	Thank you for the word you gave us today is not the last time, a very nice greeting to everyone! From Anton Janša to today Slovenian beekeepers, bees products and our indigenous crane grays enjoy great reputation. Slovenian beekeepers are among the largest innovators in the field of beekeeping and also among those who make a decisive contribution to the development of the profession. If beekeeping has an enviable and rich tradition, it also today represents an important complementary activity on a variety of farms, and the first inventions of entrepreneurship in this area, where beekeeping is already shown as an economic sector. The resolution on the protection of carnations is a strategic document that will serve as a basis for action in beekeeping. It provides a framework for policy-makers and sets objectives for the management of beekeeping policy. The beekeeping union of Slovenia, which connects more than seven thousand Slovenian beekeepers and their membership has increased by more than two thousand in five years. Then we would like to draw attention to the fact that membership in the Beekeeping Association of Slovenia is voluntary and clearly Slovenian beekeepers do not feel like a burden. This is evidence that the beekeeping link is targeted at the user and offers the services that beekeepers need, so it also includes numerically and voluntarily. We believe that the resolution is a good basis for increasing the number of beekeepers in the future, for beekeeping to become an economic sector and for the consumption of Slovenian honey to increase further. During a large number of unemployed persons, beekeeping also means a special market niche, since it is not possible to ignore the fact that Slovenia is not self-sufficient with honey processing and that the foreign market, according to the representatives of the beekeeping union, is also wide open and hungry for Slovenian honey, in which quality is not doubtful. However, the quality of honey and other beekeeping crops also depends on the necessary and professional supervision, which will prevent the abuse of a good name, which Slovenia enjoys at home and around the world during and around the world. In the Civil Gazette, we also believe that a short bee could be "better used" for promotional, tourist and educational purposes – learning pathways, seminars, bee mat breeding, honey and other bee crops have great potential, but without a common marketing approach there may be no greater breakthrough. The resolution was drawn up by a working group in which both beekeepers and representatives of the profession and representatives of companies marketing honey and honey products were present. That is why we also see this resolution as a consensus of all stakeholders who form and represent Slovenian beekeeping. We will listen to their initiatives and proposals and support the resolution in the Citizens' List. Finally, let me take this opportunity to remind myself of the seas that have affected Slovenian beekeeping in recent years due to the human factor. I appeal to all those responsible and responsible to do all they can to ensure that any future bee plagues will no longer be blamed on the human hand. Let's not forget what Einstein once said! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u211	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janez Ribič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u212	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen! The proposed resolution on the protection of carnations is an important strategic document in the field of beekeeping, which ensures long-term stability and development for this sector at the declaration level. Of course, the implementing documents that will implement this resolution will be key, in particular the operational programme on the protection of bees and bees. Beekeeping in Slovenia is one of the traditional agricultural activities that already have a venerable history, and according to the MEPs and members of the Slovenian People's Party there is also a bright future. As we all know, Anton Janša, the first beekeeping teacher in the Imperial Danube, presented the knowledge of the Slovenian rural peasant about beekeeping. A hundred years later, the area became famous for its bee, known as the cranberry bee, which soon became known worldwide. In recent years beekeeping has consistently been established as an equal agricultural activity, and Slovenia has also ensured the possibility of regulating the marketing of bee material in the pre-accession negotiations for accession to the European Union, thereby enforcing the protection of autochthonous cranium. The latter are being upgraded by the adoption of the Resolution on the Protection of the Carniolan Bee, which contains the multi-annual efforts of the professional organisation in the field of beekeeping, the Beekeeping Union of Slovenia, after recognizing the importance of Slovenian beekeeping and its key element – the Kranje bees as the national values of the highest importance. And what are the essential solutions addressed by the resolution, and what is its main purpose? Its main purpose is to define comprehensively the priority development issues in the field of beekeeping with a long-term objective of maintaining the cranberry bee in Slovenia also for future generations of beekeepers. It provides the basis for Slovenia's views on the adoption of the policies and regulations of the common agricultural policy relating to the maintenance of indigenous breeds and other beekeeping areas, including at the level of the European Union. Kranjska bee is protected in Slovenia under the Act on livestock, which recognises Slovenia's right to care for the indigenous population of the Kranj bee. The resolution essentially builds on this duty of greater care, since its main objective is to preserve the purity of the carnation while preserving the existing diversity. The population of the cranberry bee in Slovenia is urgently required to maintain and establish conditions that will protect it from the pressures of neighbouring bees. In addition, the main objective of the resolution is to strengthen the even population of bee families across Slovenia with a desire to increase the number of bee families to 150 000 and beyond. This can be achieved by increasing the exploitation of bee feeds, reducing the loss of bee families due to disease, ensuring permanent health care and monitoring of bee families and encouraging people to beekeeping. However, the proposed resolution is only a basic document by which the State recognises both the short bee and the beekeepers and gives support to Slovenian bee products. A key document that will actually bring the proposed resolution to life is the operational programme on the protection of bees and beekeeping, which is yet to be adopted. This will keep the heritage of the most famous Slovenian beekeeper Anton Janša. We will, of course, support the resolution on the protection of the cranium bees in the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u213	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, he has the word mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u214	Thank you for your word. One last welcome from me for today! Bees follow us all, especially beekeepers, throughout our lives. As children, it is a symbol of propriety, safety and care for others, but when we grow up, we admire its effectiveness, organisation, social order and economy. We learn to observe and think from bees, and beekeepers especially look forward to a rich honey crop and share with them grief if a disease occurs in beekeeping. We see the outstanding role of beekeeping in the fact that about 90% of the fruit and vegetables pollinate bees and to date no alternative to pollination has been found. This is what Albert Einstein said in 1949: "When the bee disappears from the face of the earth, man will only survive for four years; for when the bee is no longer pollinated, no more plants, no more animals, no more man." Since we are also aware of the importance of keeping bees in the DeSUS Group and, above all, how important it is to preserve and protect the crane bee, we will support the Resolution on the Protection of the Carniolan Bee. Its aim is to maintain the breed purity of the short bee while maintaining the existing variety and a balanced and sufficient population of bee families throughout Slovenia. Successful conservation of species and subtypes can only be achieved in a natural environment that has led to their origin. This is also true for the cranberry bee in Slovenia. In the accession negotiations with the European Union, we have, through a specific accession declaration, challenged ourselves the right and the duty to do so for world beekeeping, a valuable subtype of interoperable bee which has its own domain in Slovenia. Kranska bee is one of the symbols of Slovenia and also export product. To achieve the goal set by the competent ministry, that is to have at least 150 000 bee families, it is necessary to enable the maximum use of bee feeds, to reduce the loss of bee families due to disease, to ensure permanent health care and control of bee families and to encourage beekeeping. Bee growers also have a very important role to play in keeping the carnivore bee. The pollinated queen is a genetic material that connects with the main selection work, the goal of which, in addition to maintaining the cranberry bee, is genetic progress. That's how breeders spread the gene material of their bees. In the DeSUS Group, we expect the Resolution on the Protection of the Cranberry Bees to actually help preserve and protect the cranberry bees. At the same time, we wish that we would no longer experience the mass deaths of bee families we have witnessed in the last few years. Their causes are still not fully clear, but we fear that a significant proportion of the blame goes on to attribute the excessive use of pesticides, which unfortunately many still use headlessly and unprofessionally. We therefore appeal to the competent ministry to increase control over the use of plant protection products and to promote the use of natural means to remove pests and plant diseases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u215	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, the position will be presented by Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u216	Dear President, Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The Cranian bee is also one of the strong, recognizable brands of Slovenia, which, according to the Christian Democrats, really deserves all protection, so we support the motion for a resolution on the protection of the cranberry bee. The adoption of the resolution will further reinforce the importance of this species of bees, which is also the only breed allowed to breed in Slovenia. In Novi Slovenija we are happy to follow the work of the Beekeeping Association of Slovenia and thank them for all the work, for the careful production of honey, for the preservation of the breed of carnivore bee and for the education and interest in beekeeping among young people. Given that bees are an indispensable article in pollinating fruit trees, it is essential that bees also beekeepers are allowed to interact with agriculture. We must stop looking at beekeepers as agricultural opponents. The resolution itself is unlikely to solve all the problems beekeepers face in their work, but at least it will draw attention to some and hopefully encourage those responsible to take appropriate action. Christian Democrats believe that beekeeping needs to be recognised as an important economic sector in Slovenia, especially in relation to tourism. More and more people have successfully solved the problem of unemployment by starting beekeeping. In addition, beekeepers have great difficulty in trading honey, and even more so with the mats of the cranberry bee, with countries outside the European Union. We call on the Ministry of Agriculture, in conjunction with the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Affairs, not to leave such obstacles to the chance or perseverance and ingenuity of the individual beekeeper, but to do the work for which they are, not least, paid. Slovenia is a beekeeping country. The only bees in the world we know are bees, the only ones in the world that are made of virgin limbs. Bees are an important part of the national identity. Let us help them to endure and develop! Without a bee, we'll be gone. Members of New Slovenia will vote in favour of the Resolution on the Protection of the Carniolan Bees.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u217	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia will be presented by Mr Dragan Bosic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u218	Thank you. That's a nice greeting for the president. Thank you for saying so. Hello, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! In Positive Slovenia we will support the resolution. We support both objectives, both strategic objectives, both genetic stability and purity and diversity, as well as the uniform distribution and distribution of families to at least 150 000 – if we are talking about distribution, we are thinking about even distribution across Slovenia, which is also the only guarantee to revitalize the population if it is necessary. Of course, there are more reasons for support, some of which were spoken of by my predecessors who did not forget to mention the man to be mentioned – clearly, Anton Janša, who is the father of modern beekeeping, although the academic painter has shown himself more and more by beekeeping than by art – and by citing Einstein – but I would like to point out something else, namely in Positive Slovenia we believe that the body is being protected in this way to protect the environment in which we live is a general doctrine. If this one has a stable environment, he'll survive, otherwise he'll only survive on coins, if I'm not mistaken, fifty hundred hundred was a bee, now it's not new. Another thing that seems important to us is the integration of bees, beekeeping into educational systems. In fact, when the children adopt something, then it is a great guarantee that it will be preserved – I say, of course, in this case about bees. The bee is very important to us, too, in some sense. In fact, it is an animal that lives in a community and an animal in a community and life in a community requires some communication; it is said to be very instructive for us. This means that survival is crucial to the ability to communicate. The bee has this property to communicate with other bees and at the same time – it sends us a very important message! The other thing is specialization at work, and we are talking about some high added value; in short, someone who is highly specialized in his work. Workers are divided according to their individual fields of work, not to talk about guards and so on. But there's a security guard. In fact, an individual can only survive within a community. Which means high specialization means loss of identity – again something important to us. The only chance of survival is for the community to communicate with each other, to live in a community. Finally, I would point to something that I do not like most about bees, even though we support the resolution. In fact, this is the fact that when food shortages occur, the first thing to do is to give up the drones. That means the workers then run the drones, fly off into the cold night and die. And this part of the story might suggest silence when we teach young people, because then our function is somewhat controversial. However, it is a fact that even without drones they can preserve their community because they have the possibility of developing from unfertilized eggs. So this is where the bees went in one direction that we might not like most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah will be presented as the last position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u220	Well, mate, the drones aren't that insignificant. The purpose of the resolution is to protect the Kranje bee and the related Slovenian cultural heritage and the specificity of beekeeping in Slovenia and to preserve biodiversity. Cranberry bee is important for the whole world, as it is the world’s most common bee in addition to the Italian bee. The reason for this is in its peaceful nature, which allows beekeeping near the settlements. Although Slovenia is a country with one of the largest bees density, the bee is vulnerable to us. To a large extent, the desire to increase profits and the legal and illegal testing of bees subtypes and dependence on human cultivation have contributed to this. Also, her survival was threatened by a foreign warlord. The Cranberry bee is not at present at risk; the purpose of this resolution is not to do so either. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that beekeeping must also be given the right place in legislation, particularly in the Agriculture Act. Beekeeping should be given the status of complementary activities on farm, which would contribute to additional income in relation to fruit production, particularly in smaller farms in an area with limited farming factors. The country should also contribute to the development of beekeeping, in particular by reducing bureaucratic barriers and simplifying the tendering conditions for beekeeping tenders. A major obstacle to beekeepers is also spatial legislation, which largely prevents beekeepers from being placed on agricultural land, as beekeepers also need clean drinking water and electricity. It is therefore necessary to adapt this part of spatial legislation to beekeeping. Since the strategic objectives of the resolution are to preserve the indigenous population of the carnivorous bee and its diversity and to maintain a balanced and sufficient population with bee families throughout Slovenia, this resolution is only moral support for beekeeping. What will be the real support, however, will be shown in the adoption of concrete laws that will also regulate this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u221	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. No amendments to the supplementary motion for a resolution have been tabled. The decision on the motion for a resolution will be made on Thursday, 6 March 2014, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking up the agenda with this. I am also adjourning the 22nd meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Have a nice day and good luck.
