ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 3rd meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Bojana Mursich, mag. Tanya Zink, mag. Margareta Guček Zakošek by 3 p.m., Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik, Mr Janez Janša, Mr Srečko Blažič from 3 p.m., Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker from 15.30 p.m. to 19 p.m., mag. Dušan Verbič by 1:00, Matjaž Hanžek and Mr Tomaž Gantar. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to nine. Period of the day, that's first of all the fiscal rule bill. The draft law was tabled by a group of 20 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 20 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. To Andre Shirtzle.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u2	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! On 24 May 2013, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a constitutional law amending Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. It has thus amended this Article and has also established a means of implementing this Article. It has determined that all revenue and expenditure to finance public spending must be balanced in the medium term without debt or that revenue must exceed expenditure. He also stated that this principle could be temporarily derogated from in exceptional circumstances. Furthermore, Article 2 of the Constitutional Law provides that the implementing law shall be adopted within six months of the entry into force of the constitutional law. This actually means the end of November 2013. The implementing law shall apply for the first time to the preparation of the country's budget for 2015. In doing so, it is the duty of the State to gradually adjust its budget for 2015 in accordance with the principle of balance. The Constitutional Law was enforced by a declaration in the National Assembly and, as I said, by 30 November 2013, the obligation to adapt and apply Article 148 of the Constitution arose. If that is not the case, then the country is in an unconstitutional position. The six-month deadline has been set, but this has not actually happened. It did not happen either in the previous government or in the current government or in the previous national assembly. So far, of course, we have a new opportunity to adopt an implementing law on the basis of the Constitution to ensure the balance of public finances. This should have happened already for the 2015 budget, which we know did not happen. By proposing the adoption of an implementing law by the Slovenian Democratic Party, there would have been an end to the unconstitutional situation, which was due to the fact that we had not adopted this law in the previous parliamentary period or that the National Assembly had not adopted this law, although the law was actually prepared and the law was also dealt with in the National Assembly, but the coalition at that time did, of course, object. What would actually happen to this law, and what does this law also accomplish? Harmonised public finances, which are a condition for a competitive economy, for the social state and, of course, for lower interest rates, are acquired. In other words. The international markets have generally responded and have always responded to such a law in order to reduce interest rates, which means that less should be paid for interest and debt repayment, and, of course, the longer term remains more for social and, of course, remains for the development of the country itself. In short, the adoption of this law has positive effects on the country's credit rating and the interest rate at which the State is indebted. The proposed law also contains a provision limiting the debt to 45 % of the gross social product and, in accordance with this provision, the remuneration or proceeds from the purchase of financial assets shall not be exchanged for the payment of debts. In addition, I would like to point out that the responsibility of the Government must also be ensured, that the Constitution is complied with and that the constitutional provision is actually being implemented. If the Government does not do so, of course, the President of the Government should offer his resignation. In short, this responsibility comes from the Constitution itself. We propose in the Slovenian Democratic Party that we conclude that this legal text is appropriate for further consideration and that we fulfil our constitutional duty.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u3	I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Finance Dr Dušan Maramor, for an introductory explanation of the opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u4	Dear Members and Members! The government does not support the proposal for a fiscal rule law ahead of you, as it limits excessively the possibility of fiscal policy making. The proposal therefore goes beyond the purpose pursued by the amendment of Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, namely to ensure the long-term sustainability of public finances, taking into account international obligations. The provisions of the proposed law are stricter than those resulting from the rules adopted at European Union level. These rules in themselves constitute a strict framework for the formulation of public financial policy and therefore we do not support further restrictions on the use of fiscal policy to respond to shocks in economic activities. The main element of the proposed law is a fiscal rule based on the Swiss formula for determining the maximum possible amount of expenditure of the state sector. This leaves the determination of the volume of public finances in a given year to the mathematical formula, irrespective of the number of factors affecting the state of public finances and the economic situation in the country. The use of the formula thus narrows down the possibility of managing anti-cyclical and anti-shock fiscal policies, as allowed by the limitations of the Stability and Growth Pact. As a result, this means lower economic growth and lower employment levels. It should also be stressed that the calculation of the potential gross domestic product level is extremely variable, which is a key element in calculating the maximum possible amount of expenditure per Swiss formula. Therefore, if we wanted the actual level of expenditure of the state sector not to exceed the expenditure calculated in accordance with the Swiss formula, any change in input would result in a need for a change in public financial policy. Otherwise, the execution of public finances would not be in line with the proposed law. The combination of volatility in the calculation of the potential gross domestic product and the obligation to keep public finances consistent with the Swiss formula may subsequently show, despite appropriate planning, that the public financial policy was pro-cyclical and that correction is needed in the following year. The management of fiscal policy on the basis of this formula therefore leads to additional instability. Indeed, the formula has proved appropriate for Switzerland but is not suitable for Slovenia, a country without its own monetary policy, which is another key instrument for managing economic shocks in addition to fiscal policy. The volatility of calculations of the potential gross domestic product in Switzerland has also proved to be lower in the past than in Slovenia. These are all factors that should be taken into account when drawing up rules. According to available information, none of the EU countries has Swiss formulas for transferring the fiscal pact. These are the key reasons why the Government opposes the proposed implementing law on the fiscal rule. It is also important that the Government has already sent its proposal for a fiscal rule law to the National Assembly. The government proposal is prepared in accordance with the international commitments adopted and constitutes a strict framework for the management of fiscal policy, but, contrary to the proposal before you, it does not further limit European rules of permissive flexibility. Therefore, once again, if I summarize the opinion of the Government, the proposal of the law before you, the Government does not support and oppose its further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u5	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u6	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party has decided to submit an implementing proposal for a fiscal rule law into the procedure of the National Assembly. Today is the first reading of this law. The Slovenian Democratic Party is aware of its responsibilities and therefore we have also tabled this law into the procedure. The fact is that Slovenia has been in an unconstitutional state for more than a year. On 24 May 2013, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the Constitutional Act amending Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the Constitutional Law stipulated in Article 1 that all revenue and expenditure to finance public spending must be covered by the State's budgets. The revenue and expenditure of the country's budgets must be balanced in the medium term without indebtedness or the revenue must exceed the expenditure. This principle may only be temporarily derogated from in exceptional circumstances for the State. The law adopted by the National Assembly with a two-thirds majority vote of all Members shall lay down the modalities and timeframe for the implementation of the constitutional principle of balance, the criteria for determining exceptional circumstances and the manner in which they are to be followed. Article 148 of the Constitutional Law provides in Article 2 for the adoption of the implementing law within six months of the entry into force of the constitutional law, at the same time providing that the principle of balance as set out in Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the second paragraph, and the implementing law shall be applied for the first time for the preparation of the budget of the State for 2015, while ensuring that the duty of gradual adjustment for the preparation of the budget of the State for 2015, in accordance with the principle of balance, arises by the promulgation of the constitutional law. The Constitutional Law was enforced by a declaration at the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 31 May 2013. This has already created constitutional obligations for the adoption of the law referred to in the third paragraph of amended Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by 30 November 2013 and the obligation to gradually adapt to the application of the amended Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia for the preparation of the country's budgets for 2015. On 19 April 2014, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the Law on the Ratification of the Intergovernmental Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Management in the Economic and Monetary Union with the support of all parliamentary groups. The Treaty is based on a fiscal rule in the third article of the Treaty, which provides that budgets must be balanced or in surplus. This means that the structural deficit at annual level must not exceed 0,5 % of the gross domestic product. In exceptional circumstances, a Party may temporarily derogate from the medium-term budgetary objective or from measures to achieve that objective. These are cases of exceptional events outside the control of countries or of severe economic problems, but the temporary derogation must not jeopardise medium-term fiscal sustainability. Therefore, the Parties must transpose the fiscal rule of a binding nature into national legislation no later than one year after the entry into force of the Treaty. The Treaty shall enter into force no later than 1 January 2013, if the instrument of ratification is deposited by at least twelve States Parties. In December 2013, the State of Finland became the twelfth State Party to ratify the Treaty so that it entered into force on 1 January 2013. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has transferred the contract to the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia by writing this rule into the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, with the constitutional law 148. Article, set a mandatory six-month deadline for the adoption of the implementing law and the obligation to draw up a budget for 2015 in accordance with this Act, and the obligation to carry out gradual adaptation immediately by amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. It is only by adopting and implementing the implementing law that the method and time frame for implementing the principle of balance set out in the amended 148th Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is laid down, which means that implementation of the fiscal rule is in fact only possible by implementing the implementing law, which has not yet been proposed for adoption by the National Assembly. On 30 September 2013, the former government of Alenka Bratušek submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia a draft budget for the Republic of Slovenia for 2015, which was adopted on 15 November 2013. Also the former government of Alenka Bratušek of 30. In September 2014, the draft amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 adopted on 15 November 2013 were proposed in the adoption process. On 30 October 2014, the current Government of Mir Cerar proposed a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014. The revised budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 provides for a budget deficit of more than €1 billion, with net retention of €1.6 billion for current needs. The 2014 budget balance of the Republic of Slovenia provides for a higher budget deficit of €197 million, totalling more than €1.2 billion, with net retention of the current needs of €2.4 billion. The 2014 budget, which was proposed and adopted at a time when the constitutional law, Article 148, did not yet apply, provided for a budget deficit of EUR 907 million and a net retention for the current need of EUR 1.3 billion. The adopted budget for 2015, proposed by the previous government of Alenka Bratušek, should already respect the changes to the constitutional law, Article 148, but foresees a budget deficit of EUR 859 million and a net retention of EUR 1.1 billion for current needs. Both the 2014 revision of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and the 2014 budget of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as the 2015 budget of the Republic of Slovenia, show that the budgets deviate from the constitutionally permissible objective set out in the constitutional law, Article 148. The main reasons for the adoption of this law, which have already been mentioned above, are the immediate adoption of this law by the removal of the unconstitutional situation resulting from the suspension of the conduct of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia within the mandate of the President of the Magi. Alenke Bratusek. Such an unconstitutional situation continues during the time of President Mir Cerar, as a proposal for a fiscal rule law has been submitted since the government's appearance with full powers to the legislative process. Not only is the adoption of the law necessary for the abolition of the unconstitutional situation in public finances, in which the Republic of Slovenia is a party to a violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by the former President of the Government of Mag. Alenka Bratušek, but also because of the unconstitutional situation that the current Prime Minister, Dr. Miro Cerar, obviously does not wish to eliminate. On 27 February 2014, a working group was set up to prepare a proposal for a fiscal rule law. The working group drafted and drew attention to the open issues, but the former government did not adopt the proposal. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group is thus proposing a law that has been prepared and coordinated within the framework of this working group in key solutions. In accordance with Article 2 of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is the one which, in accordance with the Constitution, laws and other general acts of the National Assembly, establishes, directs and coordinates the implementation of the State policy. To this end, it shall issue rules and adopt other legal, political, economic, financial, organisational and other measures necessary to ensure the development of the State and to regulate the situation in all areas within the jurisdiction of the State. The Government proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt laws, state budget, national programmes and other general acts establishing principles and long-term political orientations for individual areas within the jurisdiction of the State. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in the first paragraph of Article 114 specify who has the right to propose laws for admission to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. These are the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, each Member, the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia and at least 5,000 voters. The duties of Members are defined in Article 15 of the Law on Members, which concerns only participation in meetings and voting. The proposal of laws is explicitly defined as the right of a Member and not the duty of a Member. Since the government of Dr. Mir Cerar is still leaving the constitutional and legal obligation to propose a fiscal rule law for adoption, this law is proposed by Members within these powers. The final and actual implementation of the fiscal rule or the rules on the balance of public finances, in particular its implementation in the country's budgets, has measurable positive effects on the country's credit rating and on the interest rate at which the State is indebted. During such an unconstitutional public finances situation, on 11 February 2014, the Republic of Slovenia owed $3.5 billion for five and ten years. If the implementing law under Article 148 were adopted and the budgetary policy was implemented in accordance with the principles laid down in this Article, interest rates could be significantly lower. Data from other comparable countries show that for at least one percentage point. Which means that the country's indebtedness in this case would be cheaper for at least $35 million a year. The harmful consequences of non-compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia were therefore incurred at the time of the Republic of Slovenia's greatest debt within a few months, irrespective of the fact that the debt price later fell on the secondary bond market. The Republic of Slovenia has not committed itself to the current interest rate on the secondary market, but rather to a higher interest rate at the time of indebtedness on the primary market at the time of issue of the bonds. The difference in interest rates at the time of indebtedness and today's interest rates on the secondary market is a net loss due to the unconstitutional, inadequate public financial policy, both of the previous governments and of the current Government of Mir Cerar. It is the duty and responsibility of the Government of Dr. Mir Cerar to remove such an unconstitutional situation as soon as possible and to comply with the international commitments made by the Republic of Slovenia, in particular to allow for positive effects on the country's credit rating and the further decline in the interest rate by which the State is indebted. On 28 October 2014, the Republic of Slovenia commissioned Dr. Mira Cerar for an additional one billion, a more favourable interest rate than the previous government, mainly due to international economic developments in the financial markets and, of course, due to the European Central Bank's interest rate reduction measure. Nevertheless, the timely adoption of the fiscal rule law could achieve an even lower interest rate, which would also take into account the legal framework of the fiscal rule law, which would help to consolidate public finances in the medium and long term. Hereinafter we would like to present the objectives of this law, which follow them. These are the objectives of the proposed law: to provide sustainable public finances, to provide a legal framework for effective and constitutional governance with public finances, to ensure macroeconomic stability for sustainable and sustainable national economic development, to establish rules for greater fiscal discipline. The principles of this law are: the precautionary principle, which provides that the planning of the projected volume of revenue of the State sector should take into account the indicator and the risk of determining the estimated volume of revenue of the budget, since otherwise it is not possible to pursue budgetary discipline. The principle of medium-term balance, which provides that the country's budgets are balanced in the medium term if the structural balance of the state sector is not lower than the medium-term fiscal objective. The minimum value of the medium-term fiscal objective shall be determined for the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of an EU regulation regulating the strengthening of budgetary control and the control and coordination of economic policies, with the minimum allowable value of the medium-term objective offset by the structural balance. Compliance with the principle of medium-term balance shall be determined on the basis of consolidated income and expenditure balances of all institutional units of the State sector, taking into account the ASAP methodology. The proposed law lays down rules to strengthen budgetary discipline. The basis for the content of the proposed law is laid down in the Constitution, by adopting Article 148 of the Constitution, on the basis of which all the revenue and expenditure of the budget of the State sector should be free of any debt of balance or surplus. The quality of public finances is most easily ensured during the planning phase and the proposal for a law also pays particular attention to this stage. The proposal for this law also pays particular attention to revenue planning. In order to plan the country's budget's revenue as well as the entire sector's budget in the country as realistically as possible, the Fiscal Council, which is an independent and independent state authority that exercises its powers, prepares and publicly makes recommendations to the Government and the National Assembly on the compliance of public financial policy with fiscal rules and carries out the tasks set out in this law and law governing public finances. The draft law lays down circumstances in which the principle of medium-term balance and the extent to which tolerances can be derogated from the principle of medium-term balance can be derogated. However, with a view to the gradual approximation of public financial consolidations, the principle of medium-term balance and the application of the fiscal rule is laid down also during the period of approximation to the medium-term fiscal objective. In view of the fact that this is the first time that this proposed law is being considered today, I would also like to point out in the Slovenian Democratic Party that it is the first reading that we have found in the preparation of this law that this law has in one part a certain flaw to be supplemented by, namely, what happens if the government does not comply with this fiscal rule. I think, given that today is the first reading, that we will be able to adapt this complement accordingly. A key issue, as we estimate, in this proposed law is Article 5 and the principle of limiting the expenditure of the state budget, the so-called fiscal rule, which also includes a clear formula, how the matter is calculated or added to this law by an anchor based on which expenditure is limited. This Article, which is one of the key to us, provides for the annual calculation of the sustainable volume of expenditure, which, taking into account the deviation from the long-term trend in economic growth, also contains a space of manoeuvre for countercyclical action of the budgetary policy. It also sets the absolute ceiling set by the long-term trend of growth and is simply an understandable formula for cooling the national economy in good years and heating it in bad years. We can be aware of where this unconstitutional state is taking us. It can lead to the state that Slovenia will lose its ratings on international markets. It can lead to extreme debt, which in some ways the current government of Mir Cerar has shown. This means that the policy of the previous governments, the new debt policy and the policy of new tax burdens will continue both for citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and for the economy itself. In doing so, it is important to note a fact that is often overlooked. That is, when we talk about the indebtedness of the Republic of Slovenia compared to the other members of the European Union, we can come to the conclusion that debt compared to gross domestic product is not so critical, we are somehow on the European average, although we know that we have already exceeded 82%. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we would like to draw particular attention to the expenditure of the State budget for the payment of interest. These are now well-known indicators of more than €1.1 billion. In doing so, it should be noted that the annual revenue to the budget is only EUR 8 billion and that we are one of the specificities of European countries. In fact, in Slovenia, the economy produces only to pay interest. And if this situation continues without any fiscal rule, implementing law, and clearly limiting the formula and anchor, we will come to Slovenia's collapse, which we will not be able to get out of so easily, and we will need additional and additional measures, which will burden taxpayers and economies. In doing so, it must be mentioned when this extreme indebtedness of the Republic of Slovenia began. All figures show that Slovenia's extreme indebtedness began during the government of Borut Pahor and this matter continued. All the indicators show that there was an extreme debt at the time. We have always warned in the Slovenian Democratic Party since 2009 that such indebtedness to the Republic of Slovenia is unsustainable. The problem that we have seen in the Slovenian Democratic Party, which we have pointed out, is that this debt was for both the government of Borut Pahor and the government of Alenka Bratušek and the current government of Mir Cerar exclusively for current consumption. For liquid consumption. And in the Slovenian Democratic Party, of course, we estimate that this mode of indebtedness is unsustainable, because all this debt has not brought any new jobs or helped to raise gross domestic product. Another story would be if a policy or one of these governments decided that the debt would be directed towards some new projects, some new investments that would trigger a gross domestic product upwards, which would encourage the economy and, of course, to open up new jobs. But in Slovenia we have been solely in charge of, I would say, current consumption and there is something very wrong here. And the key thing with us is that this unconstitutional situation that we currently have is being restored to the constitutional state and, of course, to adopt such a fiscal rule that will have a tail and head and of course have an anchor. In doing so, it should be pointed out that the Slovenian Democratic Party is a party of state and that it is always, I would say, a party of state. Despite having joined the opposition in 2013, the Slovenian Democratic Party supported the proposal for a fiscal rule. Because we are aware that fiscal rule is absolutely necessary, but we are concerned that we are now in an unconstitutional state for more than one year and that so-called implementing law has not been passed, which should be given. Here we have heard on my left, but what about Mr Šuštersič's debt in that one-year period of the government of Janez Janša. Yes, of course, the debt was then, but let us see why this debt was needed. The majority at the time of Borut Pahor's debt fell in 2013 and 2015 and there were about five billion. And there was no other choice as to what to do. And at least for me personally, I would say that we will feel the consequences of the government of Borut Pahor, I would say, a few more of our generations, and that this was probably the worst government that didn't take care of economic development at the time and, of course, the crisis, the European, the world that hit us at the time. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we would like to draw attention to another matter. Fiscal rule and we do not adopt the implementing law because of Brussels, we accept it for Slovenia and for ourselves. And the fiscal rule, and the implementing law, as proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, has only ensured for future generations that, regardless of whether it is left or medium or right, it will not be possible for some generations to be extremely indebted. And I think it should be in everyone's interest to adopt such laws, because this law will help me to rule, I will mention again, both to the left and to the right, who will have power in Slovenia in the future, to prevent Slovenia from being in extreme debt and to the next generation. We propose in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the first debate be held today. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are also prepared to take into account certain comments that would have been made to this law in its own position. However, I have presented that one of the shortcomings of this law that we have proposed still exists that it must be incorporated into the law itself, namely, what are the consequences, or what measures, if one of the governments in power is in breach of this fiscal rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u7	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Uroš Prikl has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u8	Mr President, respectable colleagues and distinguished colleagues! Allow me to brief you on the position of the Desus Group on the proposal for a fiscal rule law. We supported the amendment of the Constitution last May by the Ambassadors and Members of Desus, which introduced a fiscal rule into this highest legal act. Our Group has decided to do so because the impact of the efforts so far to address the impact of the general crisis has obviously not been sufficient. The fiscal pact also obliges us to adopt appropriate fiscal rules to strengthen fiscal discipline. The amendment of the Constitution was supported by the Desus Group with the hope of ensuring better respect for budgetary discipline and more responsible public finances. The basic purpose of the fiscal rule is to balance public finances, achieve macroeconomic stability over the medium term and, allow me, long-term prosperity over the longer term. In accordance with the constitutional law adopted, we should adopt an implementing act within six months, which is a six-month period, which is until the end of November 2013, and unfortunately this has not yet taken place. In the previous term, although, I believe, there has been a tremendous amount of effort made to draw up an implementing act. A working group has been established, and both members of the then coalition and, of course, the opposition have made every effort to implement the drafting and adoption of the fiscal rule law. The position of the Desus Group is that we must urgently and promptly adopt a law to implement this constitutional provision. We probably all agree that public finances need to be stabilised as soon as possible. Unfortunately, by the end of last year, MEPs had not been able to resolve some of the outstanding issues. In June this year, the SDS Group tabled a proposal for a law that was practically the result of the work of the previous Working Group. The law was tabled after the President of the State had already dissolved the National Assembly, while the Members voted at the 70th meeting of the National Assembly on 20 June this year on the appropriateness of the law for further consideration. We now have in mind practically the same bill as the one that did not receive sufficient support in June, because there was not enough votes for the decision. The Desus Group had already pointed out that the introduction of a fiscal rule should in no case prejudice the social and pension sectors. We persist in this position today, and we will always be. The draft law, which is the practical result of the work of the working group of the then parliamentary parties and which we have before us today, is unacceptable to our parliamentary group at the final stage. However, in the Desus Group, we need to point out again why we voted in June that the law is not suitable for further consideration and why we will do the same this time. We would like to highlight a provision that practically prevents the establishment of a demographic reserve fund, which Desus has negotiated, which he has already achieved at the time of the adoption of the pension law and, once again, at the time of the adoption of the Slovenian State Holding Act, which we have also entered into the reserve demographic fund into a coalition agreement or contract. If we supported this law, of course, we would let ourselves down, and more importantly, we would let down a large group of pensioners, not least the active population, potential groups of pensioners. The basic purpose of the demographic fund is to provide additional resources to finance pensions. It is therefore intended to ensure the long-term sustainability of the pension system for demographic reasons. The fact is, from year to year, there are fewer inflows to the pension register and more pensioners. As a result, this is increasingly burdensome for the budget. Additional resources from the administration of state assets would thus at least partially replace the missing funds and consequently relieve the budget. If the members of Desus supported such a text of the bill as we now have on the table, that would mean, at the end of the period of collapse of the pension fund, which would have unheard of negative consequences. At the same time, the provision makes it impossible in the proposed law to allocate funds from Kad to ZPIZ, for the coordination of pensions, of course. And once again, we stress that it is not possible to transfer 10% of the purchase of state property that we have chosen from Desus as one of the sources of pension financing. Given that this is an extremely difficult matter, quality solutions need to be developed and, therefore, the broadest possible consensus or consensus can be reached. Let me once again say that the position of the Desus Group has not changed from June to today, and this time we will not support the conclusion that the bill is appropriate for further consideration. Finally, I would like to highlight the fact. It is not true that the government did not approach the solution or the preparation of the law. We know that on 4 December 2014 she adopted the proposal for a fiscal rule law and sent it to the National Assembly for consideration. The government has approached the drafting of the fiscal rule law, I am sure of it, comprehensively and also presented it to the parliamentary groups not only of the coalition, but also of the opposition, in order to obtain, as it said, the widest possible support. In the Desus Group, we believe that the proposal for a law drafted and submitted by the Government will receive broad support so that we will be able to come together as we have already done when we adopt a constitutional law, possibly any other matter, and that we will adopt an implementing regulation as soon as possible. We all want a healthy and successful economy and fiscal policy and a balanced budget. Members and Members of the Desus Group will not be supported on the basis of the proposed Fiscal Rule Bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u9	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! After more than a half-second year since the adoption of the amendments to Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, we today have a second draft implementing law on the table to determine the way and time frame for the implementation of the principle of budgetary balance. While we welcome the renewed constructive contribution of the largest opposition party in the Group of Social Democrats, for the reasons set out below, we cannot support the proposal, despite the conviction of its well-intention. When we voted on the proposal for a constitutional law on 24 May 2013, we were the only ones in the Group of Social Democrats who voted against it. We have based our decision on the assessment that fiscal rule is a goal that can only be achieved if we properly assess the real circumstances and do not risk endangering or imposing public education, public health, social security and social justice at the expense of its immediate enforcement. At that time, we decided that the risk was simply too great. We support the principle of a balanced budget by the Social Democrats. Last but not least, we supported him on his first record in the Public Finance Act of 1999. However, in addition to the issue of income and income adjustment, the question must be answered: under what conditions, the mechanisms and at what time interval this objective can nevertheless be achieved. We did not get any clear answers in 2013. Following today's proposal for replies from the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, which are similar to the previous one, we are again assessing that these answers are insufficient. We note, however, that the drafter of the text since the last version that the National Assembly considered in June did not even take into account the time dimension, since in previous decisions he still lays down certain deadlines in a time that he has already passed. The proposed text, as assessed by the Social Democrats, very clearly reflects two aspects of Slovenian political reality. The first is connected in the way of transporting the European acquis into our Slovenia. We often act more popely than the pope himself to the detriment of our people. How else to understand the proposal of the law, which is more than necessary, but more than it needs to limit the possibility of adapting public financial objectives to real socio-economic circumstances. The uncritical transfer of the so-called Swiss formula, the stricter definition of exceptional circumstances and the provision on the automaticity of the infringement of rights are only three proposals which constitute a significantly stricter framework than is the result of the fiscal pact. Radicalism, however, could be understood as a educational measure because we are somehow late with our homework, but not only does it drastically reduce the already limited possibilities of fiscal rule and fiscal policy, but it also opens the door to social-state disemboweling. From this comes another aspect of Slovenian political reality. Over the past two years, we have witnessed attempts to implement the so-called neoliberal policy, the neoliberal agenda, even though citizens and citizens in the elections have said no. Thus, part of the political option of its programming origins could not be implemented, so in the past period, she urged loudly, if you remember, the arrival of the infamous threesome. For the latter’s program is to a large extent similar or coincides with theirs. We managed to avoid this in the previous government. How much and how much did the record of the principle of budgetary balance contribute to the Constitution, but assessments can, of course, be different. The troika then disappeared from the daily discourse of the work of the political public, also because part of it has more or less directly acknowledged errors in assessments and conduct. As a replacement rescue plant for the implementation of the programming guidelines, the largest opposition party was offered a new constitutional category, that is, a medium-term balanced budget. The practical presentation of the political implications of the medium-term balanced budget in the Constitution did not require long waiting. Sluging with a constitutional accusation by the President of the Government suggests a new possibility for the opposition to demolish each time a government fails to comply with a constitutional provision. In the Social Democrats Group, the proposal for a fiscal rule law is assessed as a tool that can be produced in the wake of the fundamental demands of the social state. As such, it will not receive the necessary two-thirds majority. We are therefore referring to the text prepared by the current Government. It has already taken into account the position of us, the Social Democrats, that in order to achieve the objective of medium-term budget balance, resources must be sought to fill the revenue side. In this way, we will avoid the automatic distortion of the rights of the inhabitants and residents, such as the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party. We also believe that the Fiscal Rule Act should have no doubt the intention of bringing the debate on budgetary balance out of line with narrow financial frameworks. To that end, we propose two. Firstly, it should strengthen the role of the National Assembly in the preparation and adoption of documents transmitted by the Government to Brussels. Among them, we draw particular attention to the stability programme, which contains a detailed plan to create conditions for stable economic growth and to balance public finances. Secondly, the Fiscal Council should be extended by a member proposed by an institution which is not part of the Authority and whose work covers a wider area of society. According to our assessment, such an institution, which also enjoys high trust among people, is the Ombudsman. In the Group of Social Democrats, we advocate the principle of medium-term balance of the budget, but in particular not at the expense of the social state. In one of the previous views, we have stressed that we understand the fiscal rule as a medicine that can act as a poison at an inadequate dose. The proposed law of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party is also this so-called poison. The dose prescribed for the treatment of public finances in the largest opposition party is lethal for the social state. That is why, of course, we will not support him in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u11	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u12	Dear Mr. President, the House of Respect! Thank you for your word. In opening, I would say that the Federal Republic of Germany never had a flat budget after 1969. That means she's had a government deficit for the last 45 years. It's just this information that tells us how lifeless an idea is a fiscal rule. The use of such a harsh administrative method would cause irreparable economic and social damage to the economy here, but a little later. First, we need to remember who, how, and why he wrote a fiscal rule into the constitution. On 2 March 2012, the leaders of the 25 Member States of the European Union signed a Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Management, Economic Policy and Monetary Union. This contract does not have the status of a binding directive, but it is a voluntary multilateral contract. The United Kingdom and the Czech Republic, for example, did not sign and Slovenia also had this option. But instead of allowing the then Esdees government and coalition to benefit the countries and citizens, they ratified the treaty in record time already on 19 April 2012. Furthermore, on 24 May 2013, the National Assembly adopted a constitutional law amending Article 148 of the Constitution by a two-thirds majority. He did so despite the fact that the contract of entering fiscal rules into the constitution does not require, but only recommends. And despite the fact that international treaties are directly applied in our legal order. So our political class was once again more papal than the pope and put its country in an even worse position than the international obligations imposed on it. On 24 May 2013, the National Assembly also adopted, by a two-thirds majority, a ban on the referendum decision on laws governing, for example, taxes and ratifications of international treaties, such as the fiscal rule treaty. By doing so, he has finally deprived citizens of the right to decide on key political issues and, on the one hand, has consolidated his position towards the centres of power and capital in Brussels and Western Europe and, on the other hand, has increased his independence from citizens. When citizens and political class disagree radically on something, citizens from this day forward have no longer had the opportunity to exercise their will. Next. Why is the fiscal rule harmful? The enforcement of the fiscal rule is a legacy of neoliberalism at a time when it withdraws from international financial organisations that have so far prescribed it and even from the European Commission itself. Who, after the tragedy in Greece, after the economic collapse of the southern European countries, after the crisis in Slovenia and Croatia, can even advocate a policy of strict financial consolidation. Who, apart from three or five percent of the most powerful Europeans and collaborator political classes in the banana country that we have become, can stand before their citizens and impose such inhumane measures on them? If I come back a little bit. When the global economic crisis struck, capital and political elites moved away from the neoliberal direction it had created. At the beginning of 2009 and 2010, the authorities in the United States and the European Union did the same. With billions of budget funds, countries have saved banking systems and central banks have lowered interest rates. We know the results. Unemployment has started to decline in these years, 2009 and 2010, and economic growth has been positive in most countries. Since 2011, economic movements in the United States and the United States of America, particularly in the euro area, have varied from night to day. This is due to the fact that liberal circles have taken over in the European Union after the initial shock, which have imposed a strict austerity policy and have dragged the whole European Union into a second recession. The social catastrophe caused by the troika from Latvia, Portugal, Spain, Greece is only the top of the icy mountain. If we compare the situation in the euro area with the situation in, say, the United States of America, we find that only in 2011 and 2012, 722 billion potential gross domestic product was lost in the euro area. In the United States, at the moment, GDP is already above 8% of the pre-crisis. The euro area remains at 99% of the pre-crisis area after seven years. The unemployment rate was 10% in both the US and Europe before Europe started a radical austerity policy, but in the United States it fell below 6% in the last four years and rose to 11.5% in the euro area. In Spain and Greece, things are so radical that we can talk about emergency situations. There has been an exodus of young people in the Baltic countries and in South-Eastern Europe, with about 10% of the active population displaced during the crisis. Today we have 2 million fewer jobs in the euro area than before the start of the crisis. One quarter of the population in the euro area are at risk of poverty and social exclusion, up to 5 million last year than before the crisis. And this is happening in one of the most statistically rich regions in the world. This, respected colleagues, is the result of neoliberal fiscal consolidation even before the fiscal rule even entered into force. If I go any further. Who is our proposal for a fiscal rule? The irony of fate or not is that the fiscal rule is proposed by a party that has led the most pro-cyclical economic policy in the history of Slovenia, and is supported by a party that has had a financial minister in that unfortunate government. This is a government which, together with Banka Slovenije, is responsible for infamous records during the period of our casino-capitalism between 2005 and 2008. To mention only some results: in August 2005, Slovenia as a whole was still a net creditor abroad, its external debt exceeded EUR 10 billion in August 2008. Spain, which is considered to be a textbook example of inflatable real estate balloons, can hide from us. Between 2005 and 2008, real estate prices in Spain rose by 28%, in Slovenia by 46%. At the same time, the stock balloon was inflatable. In 2004, the value of the SBI index was below 5,000, and in 2008 it exceeded 12 thousand points. The private sector also overheated abnormally. Slovenia had only 1.7% of the current balance of payments account deficits in 2005 and 5.4% in 2008. Inflation reached 5.5%. It is true that only 67,000 registered unemployed were registered in Slovenia during this period, but almost 30,000 jobs created by casino capitalism were the hardest and the worst paid jobs in construction. When Professor Prašnikar, whom you so like to mention here, analyzed the indebtedness and investment of all our companies with more than 250 employees through a study on political recruitment in state companies, he found the following two things. Firstly, in all countries, the exceptional debt and investment was limited to a small segment of companies, and between 2005 and 2008, we had all companies with more than 250 employees. Secondly, the investments of comparable foreign companies increased by 10 % in the most overheating year, while the average Slovenian company exceeded 50 % of the balance sheet total. Prašnikar and his colleagues came to the conclusion that the key error of macroeconomic policy in 2007 and 2008 was the absence of any macroeconomic brakes. And six years after this disaster, those people who led this national economic disaster would like to teach us how to run a countercyclical fiscal policy. Like now those people who preach about the poor conduct of state property and tycoon acquisitions, in the past they themselves controlled state banks that had credited Taiwanese acquisitions. Through Kad and Soda, state-owned companies were sold to various financial holding companies and tycoons. Indeed, the crisis in Slovenia is global and Slovenia would be difficult to avoid. But the crisis would be much shorter and less painful if no such grave mistakes were made during the crucial period. And now people who are directly responsible for this economic political disaster are giving us prescriptions for belt tightening and are teaching us how to lead the country's fiscal policy. European and Slovenian neoliberalism has managed to use the crisis to reduce employment rights, to reduce social rights for the decommissioning of the social state. For the past two days, the proponents of this law and their sympathizers have sued the fate of disabled businesses, unemployed youth, abusive workers, police officers. If we were talking about social benefits, these same policies that have proposed and adopted the ZUJF, or keep it alive, would probably once again express a great deal of concern for the poor, for the victims of the flood and so on. On the other hand, no one even shakes their eyes when you propose a coerced vest that will choke and destroy the social state. The only good thing about the fiscal rule is that it does not have to be used during the crisis. Therefore, it would be only reasonable if it had already been enacted to be determined as flexibly as possible. Lawmakers, of course, do the opposite. Exceptional circumstances have been identified as difficult and strict as possible. The fiscal rule should only cease to apply if 3% of GDP falls in one or two years together. Your Honor! After 1992, Slovenia only experienced such a decline in GDP in 2009 and 2013, and only for hair, since total GDP decreased by 3.6% in both years. Today, someone rarely remembers that we had already had positive economic growth in 2010 and 2011. But if then the fiscal rule proposed by the SDS were to apply, it should be radically reduced in these years. Under such a scenario, Slovenia would have fallen back into recession two years before the ZUJF. Does anyone have any idea what the social consequences would be? If anyone thinks we're so far away, they can't be worse off. The opportunities for setbacks are enormous. If we had applied the fiscal rule proposed here since 2010, our situation would now be significantly more similar to the situation in Greece than we think. We have a fifth of the population socially at risk, 35% of the population in Greece. With us, unemployment is 11%, 26% in Greece. The proposal for a fiscal rule law is a recipe for a Greek script. We'll never land on this script in the United Left. This scenario will never be accepted by people in Slovenia, as did the Greeks, the Spanish, Croatia and other European nations. This is simply enough for European people. Have we really not learned anything from the disastrous 2012 and other Esdes government? This time I am addressing you, coalition MPs from the Mir Cerar Party, who have not yet soiled their hands. Iron economic legality is that in the crisis we have to increase budgetary spending if not, economic activity will decline even more than is inevitable due to economic fluctuations. If activity decreases, unemployment and social hardship will, of course, increase, as well as social expenditure. It has always been shown that public spending is the easiest to reduce in those who cannot resist it in an organised manner in those who need such or other forms of social assistance. This has been confirmed for hundreds of years in 2011 and 2012. First, the conditions for obtaining social assistance and protective allowances were tightened by reducing the number of recipients of social assistance by 10 % and the number of recipients of the social allowance by 64 % only between January 2011 and 2012. After that, the amount of monetary social assistance was reduced by the ZUJF to only two thirds of the minimum cost of living. This arrangement has not changed, although two governments and two ruling coalitions have since changed. This time, we place our hopes on something else. And if I go to the conclusion. There is nothing in the fiscal rule that prudent fiscal policy would not use as a means to prevent the inflatability of financial and real estate balloons and the reckless indebtedness of companies that for a short time generate apparent employment and prosperity in the medium term and social devastation. In normal or good times, fiscal rule means less resources for the poor and vulnerable, less jobs in the public sector, poor health care, poor public education, privatisation of public services. Therefore, the fiscal rule is unacceptable and we will not support it. The proponent's script has been known for a long time. The unions break down, keep the workers together and take away their rights. Poor to humiliate and control. Introduce apartheid between the poor and the rich in health and education. Growing a society of inequality and fear of survival. Then bring in another republic and a great leader. But the prerequisite for all of this is that people are deprived of economic and social security. This policy has been denied three times in recent years. Esdees' government has fallen apart because of human resistance. Gregor Virant's citizen list, which was a carrier of neoliberalism, did not receive a percentage in the last elections. Positive Slovenia, which continued all the missing projects of Šuštersič – ZUJF, bad bank, privatisation, Slovenian State Holding – sat itself and burned itself in the elections. Whoever pursues such a policy is working in opposition to citizens who work contrary to the will of the people will not wait for the mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u13	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u14	Dear Mr. Minister, Dr. Marble, distinguished colleagues, respected colleagues! I have to take some of my breath. On 24 May 2013, a constitutional amendment to Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia was voted in order to record the fiscal rule in the Constitution. This constitutional provision commits each government to the medium-term balance of revenue and expenditure of the state budget without any debt. Article 148 of the Constitution also provides that the constitutional law implementing the fiscal rule must be adopted within six months. It's supposed to be accepted by November last year. So we've been late for this law for over a year. In the parliamentary procedure, two laws on the fiscal rule, the first one that we are considering today, have been drafted by a group of Members, and another has been drafted by the Government and presented to the parliamentary groups, including the opposition groups. In this way, we will decide on two different concepts of achieving fiscal balance. The proposal for a law differs significantly in the way and when the public financial deficit is corrected. The adoption of the law requires a two-thirds majority of all members of the National Assembly, so it will be necessary to seek a broader political agreement on the adoption of this law. Today's bill is quite strict and consistent in this regard. The draft law, which is being considered today, sets out the so-called Swiss formula for limiting budgetary expenditure in the individual financial year and the maximum duration of the medium-term period of the economic cycle, which may last for a maximum of seven years. It also specifies exactly what are the exceptional circumstances in which a temporary derogation from the fiscal rule is possible and the powers and tasks of the Government, the National Assembly and other authorities in the event of imbalances in the State budget due to exceptional circumstances. The government's proposal for a fiscal rule law is more relaxed and leaves the government with more room for manoeuvre in budgetary planning, one could say, for the survival of the government or coalition. It does not specify the formula for calculating the ceiling of public expenditure, does not limit the time term of the medium term and has a loose definition of exceptional circumstances. At the presentation of the government proposal, the Minister of Finance stressed that, by taking over the euro as a common currency of the euro area countries, our country no longer has an impact on monetary policy and therefore does not have leverage in the area of monetary policy to address certain fluctuations. Fiscal policy is therefore the only leverage to achieve certain flexibility in the budget. The government proposal provides for a gradual correction of the structural deficit, after half a year, and is expected to be applied to the 2016 budget. Slovenia would therefore need between four and five years to remedy the structural deficit, as expected by some. Today we can see that the longer we delay structural reforms, the more balanced the state budget, the more painful cuts will unfortunately be necessary. Sooner or later, the day will come when the National Assembly will have to take unfortunately painful measures, but I expect them to be presented to the public, of course, to taxpayers, citizens and citizens, so that we can see the light in the short term at the end of the tunnel. It won't be any different. It won't be any different. We can agree that Mr Benjamin Franklin was a wise man, at this point we surely agree. We can also agree that he said that the wealth of people requires two words, savings and entrepreneurship, well, he meant the realization of those two words. But how simple, isn't it? But when we want savings and entrepreneurship here behind these voting devices to come true, then we're running out, at least some. And one more thing. Since we are all specialists, of course, how to share, and less of us, how to create a new value, I also remember Mrs Margaret Thatcher's statements in this place, which she said: "Socialism is as good as it is until you run out of money from others." New Slovenia – we are convinced by the Christian Democrats that the country's debt needs to be effectively and as soon as possible put an end to it. In recent years, the government has been heavily indebted to cover the current budget with worrying dynamics. Even the current government, although not in power for 100 days, today, I think it is the 90th day, has committed 1 billion euros and sold for half a billion coins. Interest on loans is over a billion per year, according to the latest figures, about 1.2 billion, which is already close to 15% of total budget expenditure. Such indebtedness is irresponsible to citizens who consequently live worse from day to day, so there is increasing poverty in Slovenia, with an ever lower standard. It is irresponsible for future generations, for our children and our grandchildren, who will be left with such an inheritance. Bad legacy. This is why New Slovenia advocates a concept that will end its debt, even though the measures will be painful, as I said. Any delay with this cut, unfortunately, only means that the necessary cuts will be bigger and even more painful. Today's parliamentary proposal for a fiscal rule law will be supported by Members of the New Slovenia Group at first reading. Of course, as the authors themselves have said, some solutions can and should be further supplemented and improved in the process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u15	The word is given by the Alliance's Group, for her mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u16	Good-bye. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I can say that since the constitutional audit procedure for amending Article 148 of the Constitution, we have been defending the position since 2012 that consolidation of public finances must be gradual. Several factors must be taken into account. For example, the government’s fiscal policy must be sustainable, even at a time when it faces one of the biggest crises of the financial and economic system. Public financial policy must not and cannot have an additional negative impact on economic growth and on employment or employment in acute situations. More than that, he has to encourage both. The difference in views on the time needed to consolidate public finances was also the main reason why the amendment of Article 148 of the Constitution did not take place in 2012. At that time, the current government wanted rapid consolidation, and we, even after simulations of the functioning of the fiscal rule, advocated the view that consolidation should be gradual. Otherwise, according to our assessment, it would have negative consequences in almost all social areas. Thus, in the field of economy and employment, especially in the public sector, the services that people receive from the public sector, and not those of public servants, I will say, but I mean nothing bad, officials who are usually in the minds of people when they say that the public sector needs to be reduced, but people who work in health, education, culture, police and elsewhere could be listed. On 24 May 2013, an agreement was actually reached which resulted in the amendment of Article 148 of the Constitution today. The Constitutional Law has thus provided that the country's revenue and expenditure must be balanced in the medium term, without any debt, or that the revenue must exceed the expenditure. This principle may only be temporarily derogated from in exceptional circumstances for the State. Article 2 of the same constitutional law provided that the implementing law on fiscal rules should be adopted within six months of its entry into force. However, gradual adjustment shall be taken into account when the 2015 budget is adopted. Of course, this does not mean that the budget must be balanced already in 2015, which some like to convince us constantly. Therefore, if I simplify it a little bit, it is necessary to take into account the revenue and expenditure under the ESA 95 methodology. This does not mean only the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, of course, but here are the budgets of the municipalities and the pension treasury and the health treasury, Kad, SDH. All the revenue and expenditure, all the revenue and expenditure of the said budgets must therefore be balanced in the medium term. A two-thirds majority is required for the adoption of the implementing law, i.e. the law we are considering today. That, Your Honor, is not an accident. It is only right for such a law not to say honestly that at the time of its adoption a consensus is reached as widely as possible. The gradual adjustment to medium-term balance has already been taken into account by the adoption of the 2015 budget, although some of you deny it today. We have received the constitutional law, I can say, after long-term coordination at the end of May 2013. Its provisions have also been taken into account, as I have already said, when adopting the 2015 budget. At the beginning of 2014, there was coordination between representatives of Parliamentary parties and the Ministry of Finance. These meetings were regular, I can say fruitful. By April 2014, such coordination was a significant part of the text of this Act. In fact, the presidents of the parliamentary parties should bring together five more open points. If I count them. About the fiscal world. The Fiscal Council, which in our view is a key independent supervisory body which, according to the interpretation of one, should have more operational powers in relation to the occurrence or termination of exceptional circumstances, should virtually not have, according to other interpretations of these powers. According to one explanation, the fiscal council should be appointed by a two-thirds majority and, secondly, it should not be regulated under the Fiscal Rule Act. The European Union, just to remind you, expects that the Fiscal Council will be able to deliver independent assessments and opinions on public financial policy. However, the government should respect such assessments and opinions. The applicants of today's version of the implementing law did not agree with the regulation of the powers of the fiscal council as an independent body. The question remained also open regarding the determination of exceptional circumstances, the criteria for exceptional circumstances, the extent of possible deviations from the fiscal rule and the determination of the required majority, which would be able to decide on the possible extent of deviations from the fiscal rule. The third open point was the question of liability in the event of a derogation from the fiscal rule. Even the transitional period, the period of approximation to the medium-term fiscal objective was not harmonised, as some wished to see the year explicitly recorded in the transitional provision, when the structural balance of public finances should be achieved, and others cautioned that, given the circumstances of consolidation and the rapidly changing macroeconomic environment, circumstances could come into play in order to establish a shorter time frame for the structural balance of the budget in countries, rather than in the event of changes in circumstances, our international commitment in accordance with EU rules. It is known that the deadline for achieving structural balance of budgets is set by European rules. And it is true that this deadline is currently set until the end of 2017. But as has been said and mentioned many times before, I am also convinced that we are not doing this at all and should not do it because of Europe's demands, but because we need to be aware ourselves that our public finances need to be put in order, regardless of who is leading and forming the Slovenian government. And that is why, at this point in time, a longer period of time, as established by EU rules, cannot be entered into the law, according to our estimates of the year. However, in the case of changed circumstances and renewal to achieve structural balance of budgets, the setting of a specific deadline in the draft law could constitute a stricter public-financial austerity policy than would be necessary. The last non-compliance was an article setting out the use of surpluses for the purpose of debt reduction. Dear colleagues and colleagues, during the first half of this year, intensive coordination of the implementing fiscal law took place, if I may call it, a law which requires a two-thirds majority for adoption, and at that time the law could not be harmonised. In the Alliance, we do not object to the adoption of the implementing law on fiscal rules; we have not, and we will not oppose it in the future, but we have always advocated that the consolidation of public finances needs to be achieved in the medium term. Let me touch a little more public debt, which is also due to public financial policy. It is true that public debt increased in 2013, but the fact that it is mainly due to the rehabilitation of the banking system. Slovenian public debt has increased or increased since 2008. In 2013, which was truly one-off in terms of the volume of the increase, it increased between the end of 2008 and the end of 2012 by a good 30 per cent of GDP. This means an average of around 8 percentage points per year. And this is information that shows that there is something to be done about our public financial policy. Once again, whatever government is in power, it would be right to have certain rules. However, I think it is right to say that if the fiscal rule of Slovenia had been established, for example, since 2000, projections and calculations show that fiscal policy was the most contrary to the fiscal rule proposed today in this law in 2006, 2007 and 2008, at the best times our young country has ever had. So in 2006, 2007 and 2008, the government or the state, if you like, has broken the most fiscal rule that would be what is proposed today. The rehabilitation of the banking sector cost Slovenia around 15% of GDP, what has already been done, and what is planned for completion this year. As mentioned in the Stability Programme, the rest of the action in the banking sector this year is foreseen because last year we were unable to complete things because of the procedures that have been carried out for longer than previously planned. And without further action in the banking sector, the government is planning a government deficit of 3.2% of GDP in the stability programme. In fact, this is exactly the same as planned in last year's stability programme, and it is fully consistent with the planned gradual fiscal consolidation. We are on the road to reducing our budget deficit in 2015 below 3% of GDP. If I withdraw, I can say that in the Alliance we are confident that the consolidation of public finances needs to be achieved gradually, so that no economic growth is already so fragile that it will have the least negative impact or impact on the already problematic situation in the labour market and the maximum consensus will be reached. All this is the reason that we cannot and will not support today's proposal. Although we believe ourselves and think that the implementing law is necessary and must be adopted, only by reaching a consensus. Finally, a two-thirds majority must be provided for its acceptance. It is precisely because of this two-thirds majority, ladies and gentlemen in the coalition, that I am surprised that the President of the Government has not taken up a minute of time so far to invite the opposition to talk about such an important law as a fiscal rule. Is this a collaboration? Is this an expression of a desire to receive two-thirds support in this National Assembly? I don't think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u17	The SMC Group, Mrs Urska Ban, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u18	Thank you very much for your word, Your Honor! The so-called fiscal pact or Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in the Economic and Monetary Union, signed by the then 25 EU Member States, entered into force on 1 January 2014. The aim of the Pact is to provide long-term budgetary discipline and crisis prevention. By signing and ratifying the Pact, the signatory countries committed themselves to financial discipline by applying the rule on a balanced budget and an automatic corrective mechanism. These countries must introduce into their national legal systems, preferably at constitutional level, the text of the Pact. The Republic of Slovenia signed a fiscal pact on 2 March 2012 and therefore committed itself to include in its legislation appropriate fiscal rules to strengthen fiscal discipline. In 2013, the National Assembly adopted an amendment to Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. This amendment lays down the fundamental principle of the State’s public financial policy and lays down that a law adopted by the National Assembly with a two-thirds majority of the votes of all Members shall lay down the modalities and timeframe for the implementation of the principle of budgetary balance of the State without debt, the criteria for determining exceptional circumstances and the manner in which they take place. The key purpose of the amendment of Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia was to ensure the long-term sustainability of public financial policy, taking into account international obligations undertaken. Accordingly, solutions to the fiscal rule implementing law should be as closely as possible in line with the provisions of the International Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Management in Economic and Monetary Policy. It is also important that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should already adopt, in accordance with EU guidelines, solutions that provide macroeconomic stability and balance in the medium term. The fiscal rule, which is the basis of the fiscal pact, obliges the signatory State not to spend more than it does, in other words, the national budget of the State must be balanced or show surplus. According to the fiscal pact, the objective will be to achieve what is achieved if the country's annual structural government deficit, i.e. a deficit which does not take account of either the conjuncture or recession, does not exceed the limit of 0,5 % of the nominal gross social product. The fiscal pact also provides that a temporary deviation from the budgetary balance rule is allowed only in exceptional economic circumstances, for example during a period of deep economic crisis. If the public debt is significantly lower than the reference value of 60 % of the gross social product, the deficit limit may be set at one percentage of the gross social product. In our view, the proposal for a fiscal rule law proposed by the Group of Members and Members goes beyond those requirements resulting from the fiscal pact. The proposed law is therefore sharper than Slovenia's commitments adopted by the fiscal pact ratification. The fiscal rule based on the use of the Swiss formula, as proposed in this bill, severely limits the use of anti-cyclical fiscal policy. Such a fiscal rule is appropriate for countries with their own monetary policy, which is used in addition to fiscal power to manage economic shocks. The Member States of the European Union, which use the common currency, do not have the option of applying monetary policy and therefore the European Union's public financial rules allow for more flexibility in the application of fiscal policy. Following the so-called Swiss formula, the highest possible level of expenditure of the sector is determined by the State in terms of the estimated volume of revenue and the level of potential compared to the actual GDP. This fiscal rule assumes a fixed structural balance of the state sector and the fiscal pact allows the establishment of a medium-term fiscal target within a range that is not limited up and down with a structural deficit of 0.5 % of GDP. The key criterion for setting the minimum value of the medium-term objective at the level of the European Union is the issue of swearing a threshold for a government deficit of 3% of GDP and the long-term sustainability of public finances, which depends mainly on the level of the debt of the state sector and the costs of potential liabilities that could have a strong impact on public spending in the future. The establishment of the minimum value of the medium-term objective as a levelled structural balance determined under this law is therefore a more restrictive provision than a fiscal pact setting a structural deficit of 0,5 % as a minimum. This provision may result in a greater reduction in public use or in a permanent rise in taxes. In practice, this can happen, irrespective of the use of the formula for calculating potential GDP, so that the projections of public finances at the time of the preparation of budgets will actually be in full compliance with the fiscal rule. However, due to the revisions of the data on economic growth back and changes in the outlook for future, there could be different calculations of potential GDP and then a subsequent assessment that the public finances of the sector were not in line with the formula in the past, although they were planned in accordance with the rule. The government, which would have taken this into account in the preparation of budgets, could consequently be even more restrictive, which would de facto exacerbate the rule by a formula that is already more stringent than the one required by the fiscal pact. It is true that the current medium-term objective set by the European Commission at the level of structural balance can be reduced when Slovenia implements the necessary structural measures to improve the long-term sustainability of public finances and raise potential economic growth. However, it must be borne in mind that greater investment of public funds in human resources in the form of public education, investment of public funds in the technological modernisation of the economy and research and development of the economy is needed in order to raise potential economic growth and catch up with other developed ones. And that would make it impossible with such a sharp fiscal rule in the future. The fiscal rule, which is stricter than the European Commission's requirements, also makes it impossible to stimulate the economy in a period of decline in economic growth, when the decline in economic growth is less than 3% of GDP. Such a fiscal rule deepens future crises. The use of the Swiss formula already in 2015 would require extremely large-scale fiscal consolidation already this year, which would have a strong negative impact on economic activity in the light of the 2012 experience. The definition of the deterioration of the economic situation is also much more stringent in this bill than laid down in European Union legislation, which in such cases allows for economic assessment and is also taken into account as a deterioration of the economic situation for a longer period of low growth and not as provided for in this law, which defines the period of significant deterioration of the economic situation as a real economic downturn in a given year or two consecutive years, totalling more than 3 %. The proposal for this law also provides for the initiation of a correction mechanism in the event of exceptional circumstances, which is not in accordance with the international contract. The correction mechanism shall be activated when exceptional circumstances have ceased if they have resulted in a derogation. The provision regarding the automatic reduction of all rights financed from the State budget is therefore unnecessary in terms of the requirements of the fiscal pact, since this provision merely provides that a procedure should be established to address medium-term imbalances. Ten. 6. In 2014 the International Monetary Fund also issued a warning on such a set of rules, which it would like to enact in even more acute form. As International Monetary Fund experts in the Brussels Economic Forum have pointed out, EU rules that reduce budget deficits reduce public investment and increase pro-cyclicality and prolong recessions. So the International Monetary Fund said that such rules were inappropriate. It follows from this that the setting of numerical fiscal policy objectives can prove pro-cyclical and counter-productive. The European Fiscal Pact is therefore a more appropriate fiscal framework. It introduces a medium-term anchor of public financial stability, which, in addition to firm commitments to limiting debt, allows for greater flexibility in recession. The mechanism for achieving this flexibility with solid medium-term foundations is a fiscal rule. The essence of the fiscal rule is that in recessions it allows for increased spending of the country. The medium-term solid foundations, however, provide the imperative of constructing budget savings in expansion. This is therefore a framework that can respond to the dilemmas raised by the International Monetary Fund. It explicitly facilitates the promotion of growth in recession. However, the rising deficit in recession is precisely due to the rule not to be passed on to the state in doubts about solvency, as the rule also dictates budgetary surpluses. A credible rule is therefore an instrument of derailment from the vicious circle of impaired confidence in the solvency of European countries. In the SMC Group, we are aware that a broad consensus is needed as soon as possible on the basis of the Constitution. That is why the Government has already introduced into the procedure an implementing law, which we support in our parliamentary group. In the SMC Group, we also believe that the proposed government law, which is already in the process, allows certain flexibility for governments in their functioning and budgeting and gives more room to manage countercyclical economic policy. Nevertheless, we are aware that fiscal rules are not sufficient for successful fiscal consolidation in Slovenia without adequate structural reforms. The fiscal rule alone is certainly not a mechanism that acts harmfully on the economy. On the contrary. The experiences of other countries speak of the opposite. It is worth noting, however, that Slovenia is a different country from, for example, Switzerland and Sweden and that we are really not subject to the same political, economic or monetary legality as elsewhere. In our view, the Government's proposal for a law exploits all possibilities under the Stability and Growth Pact and is not more stringent than the European acquis requires of us. Therefore, it does not further limit European rules on permissible flexibility. The rule also allows for a more asymmetric fiscal policy to be managed in good times compared to the mechanical application of the principle of a balanced structural balance on which the Swiss formula is based. However, it will also be possible to take into account any future changes to the Pact at EU level and it is therefore preposterously too specified or fixed to write the provisions into the implementing law itself. In our view, all the proposed legislation tabled by the Group of Members and Members does not take into account, and we will therefore not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u19	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. The word has magic. Andrej Shircelj as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Well, I think it is right that, of course, on behalf of the applicants, I respond to some of the views and, of course, to some of the issues that you have presented in the views of the parliamentary groups. Now, the first thing I would like to say is that this is the first stage of the procedure and this is a general debate. I am pleased that you have defined yourself to the fundamental characteristics of this law, but I would like to say that, of course, here is the National Assembly, here we have an implementing law and the Constitution is a framework, here we have to look at what this constitutional framework says, and in accordance with the Constitution we must also write laws. So it is likely that if someone does not like this constitutional provision, he will, of course, have to either seek a solution in some other rules that are above the constitution, which is, of course, to say or simply change the constitution. So here is the kind of thing she is, and after all, the Minister of Finance has sworn before the constitution. So here is this constitutional provision of the one that binds. It is probably not the intention of the oath itself, but it is that the constitution will actually be respected. As a result, there are, of course, some positions that are expressed in contravention of the Constitution, perhaps somewhat problematic or would, of course, be further enlightened in this regard, perhaps also illuminating the parties to the European Union's rules and what this actually means. Now, of course, there were a lot of big words here, ideologically supported and so on, and of course the question of what is what is the basis, which is the basis for progress. Is it, of course, that it spends more than it generates? In particular, those who are talking about the social state, who are talking about public education, who are talking about public health and what we have in Slovenia today and also show comparable analyses, should look at why it is, and what it is, and what it brings to us by spending more than we create, and that we should, of course, replace this difference with debt. The basic issue of the fiscal rule is that the public sector must spend as much as it creates without being indebted. This is also the basic thesis in the constitution and also in the fiscal pact if you want. And why? Because if you additionally owe and spend what you don't create, you actually do it by taking credit and paying interest to foreign lenders. As a result, these interest rates, the value of these interest, the amount of these interest is increasing, and this is a commitment fixed to international institutions, which has to be paid, which is why less remains for public education, less remains for public health and less remains for social services. That's the basic logic that works on the long run. If you are in debt, you should be indebted to a lower interest rate, such as the return on the investment you will spend this debt on. Therefore, if the interest rate is 3, it would be good that the return on that investment is at least 3,5 or 4. Look, this is the basis of the economy, the basis of the economy, and I think it would be good, of course, to have in some positions, especially those that advocate huge spending and so on, perhaps also on the basis of some economist, Krugman, and so on, which takes into account the United States of America, which can be owed at the expense of other countries because it has a dollar because it can carry this burden on other countries, because the dollar is still the world currency. So much, so little about the economy, but without any ideological cover, which was also, I think, at least in some of the views of the parliamentary groups, a lot. This is said if I respond to this now, this bill will also ensure the long-term sustainability of the pension system, because all pensions will actually be paid from this pension system, and this does not mean the collapse of the pension fund, as a colleague from Desus said. Don't scare people about something that this law doesn't actually bring. Neither does the collapse of the pension system, nor the social system, nor the decomposition of the social state, nor the social school system, and so on, in fact scare at something that is not. The economy is real knowledge and is not based on some ideological assumptions about where it is said that something would be so and something because it is simply not and it is literally misleading if we are talking about it. If, of course, we are now continuing here and speaking of course, that would mean decommissioning of the social state, that this is a greater restriction, no, ladies and gentlemen, this is a constitutional provision and it is a matter of the fact that the country in a broader sense, but here some know that this is ESA 95, including municipalities, including the pension fund, the health fund, including some companies owned by the State, that is to say ESA 95 consumes as much as it actually receives long-term taxes and here too, as has been limited, the medium-term long term is taken into account in accordance with European rules, this mentions a 7-year deadline that this needs to be harmonised. It is necessary to align expenditure with income, which is also defined by the constitution, but in an exact way with the formula or, if you want, with the Swiss formula. This is also the case in other European countries, and this is certainly nothing wrong, but it is exact. The government here does not have the opportunity to tell the National Assembly itself that they have spent a little too much, that little more has been spent on what was not actually created, and therefore this limit has been set. Of course, as I understand the opinion of the Government, which is different in writing from the one presented by Minister Maramor in a sentence which states that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia opposes the proposal for a fiscal rule law. It opposes the fiscal rule law, which is based on the Constitution, which is also the basis of which the Minister of Finance has sworn. It's a little tougher than he actually said here, but it's against him. Okay, then we're in an unconstitutional state and, of course, that's probably not good. If, of course, we are talking further and, of course, we are talking about the survival of the fundamental social states. Ladies and gentlemen, look, I don't know what schools you're teaching yourself at, but this isn't about survival, this is about respect for the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen in this country. A legal order to be respected. This is not about spending being based, of course, on real revenue, it is not toxic to the social state, far from it, it is precisely about ensuring development on the basis of real public sector spending, because if development is ensured on this basis, it will also be a development that will contribute to more employment, to additional jobs, to greater economic growth, to greater competitiveness, and because the country will be less heavily burdened by interest. So this isn't really about anything but that. This is also not about any restaurant of neoliberalism, I think several articles have already been about what neoliberalism is and where it comes from. And now it's like some sort of finch, like something foreign, that's strictly saving up here. Ladies and gentlemen, you save yourself when you've got some extra. It is saved when you have 500 euros left to pay and put in a savings account. But if you spend more than your salary, then you don't save, but you do. And here it would probably be true in this National Assembly to simplify at least the explanation of the basic concepts that we are talking about. If you spend more than you create, you don't save. You spend something you haven't created on credits you pay interest for. If we are speaking, of course, and there has been some debate about this – and we are, of course, mixing the country's indebtedness or public sector debt and external debt or external debt, as has been said. If you think any government can settle an external debt, then you're wrong. But we have to go to Bolshevism, where a party commissioner or anyone has already been, to determine how much credit an individual can take, how much credit an entrepreneur can take, and how much credit can actually not only take, but also spend. If we go into this now, then look, I think this situation is actually viable and it's not a matter of strict savings here, but it's actually about external debt involving debt to businesses, debt to natural persons and debt to the state. And the debt of the country increased from 8 billion to the 30 billion we have today from 2008 to 2012. And this debt of the state, for this debt of the state is the responsibility of the Government, is the responsibility of the finance minister and is ultimately the responsibility of the National Assembly. For the debt of individuals who have taken consumer credit to buy a wheelchair for a child, however, excuse me, the government has nothing in democratic countries. Maybe if someone thinks about some totalitarian countries and systems, maybe there's something there. However, we have said this in the Slovenian Democratic Party firmly no and strongly thank you very much. With such ideas based on some prehistoric origins, it is likely necessary to conclude once, and the world’s history has buried this deep underground. So, of course, I am pleased that there is still an area in some of the views of the parliamentary groups where this law can actually be regulated, where the law can actually be brought into the context that it will be acceptable, I will also say, for other political parties. This is where I think mainly about the role of the fiscal world. The role of the fiscal world may be larger or smaller, but the question is whether we want a new bureaucratic apparatus here or not, whether we want a new institution or not, or whether we can benefit from institutions that actually exist. Exceptional circumstances and the percentage that speaks of the three percent drop in gross social product are, of course, determined. It is determined on the basis of a discussion, based on historical data and such is actually written. However, it can probably also be changed in the further procedure of this law. I also think it is necessary to include a liability clause if the fiscal law is not actually being implemented if this law is actually being breached. I think that's why the law also has to say who's responsible. And in this case, the government is responsible. Graduation. Of course, but here we have to follow the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, the Constitution speaks of certain years and certain obligations. And I think that in this country we can't wave our hand and say, you know what, because the constitution doesn't matter at all, we're going to forget the constitution a little bit, and so on we did it then, but we made a mistake. [[…]] Or perhaps some even went to change the constitution with a fig in their pocket. Look, ladies and gentlemen, this is a serious matter for us to change the Constitution in this way, and I think that as long as there is a constitutional provision, it must be respected. Otherwise, we can't do it, or we'll get into anarchy. And I don't know who it is in the interest of us to get into anarchy. We will also, of course, find ourselves in an anarchic situation in the area of public finances. Because as long as the budget expenditure is higher than the revenue and we will cover the difference with additional borrowing, we will go into an ever-increasing and larger anarchy in the field of public finances and so much more will we always depend on foreign capital and on foreign financial institutions that need to pay interest and which Greece also has to pay interest and which Spain has to pay these interest, if we say so, to those financial institutions that we can list. And more indebtedness, of course, means less economic autonomy. And, excuse me, in the Slovenian Democratic Party we do not want a smaller economic autonomy of the state of Slovenia. However, if someone spends on a higher debt, it actually contributes to the greater instability of the financial system and thus to the vulnerability of the whole country. The logic is reversed. Creativity, creation, innovation, innovation, it brings added value, it brings progress, it brings new employment, not spending on someone's account and something he didn't create. For this reason, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose this law for the second time, because we want to provide this country with sound foundations, because we find that these healthy foundations have been broken by excessive indebtedness of this country and, of course, we are paying interest across the Atlantic to the United States. And who is responsible for such a waste if he thinks he doesn’t? More interest will always be paid through the Atlantic. And we believe, of course, that this bill is a suitable basis for further consideration and also a suitable basis for incorporating certain requirements that you have and that, of course, together with a two-thirds majority, a law that will be adopted in accordance with the Constitution, which will allow this government to operate with the Constitution. We're in an unconstitutional state today. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are in an unconstitutional state. For this reason, I propose that consideration be given to these solutions, that views be considered, and that, of course, when we vote on this tomorrow, the law will be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u21	Thank you. In the general debate, Members and Members now have the floor, Mr Matjaž Germany. Get ready, Mr. Mag. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, in today's debate on the fiscal rule law, it is important to stress that the intention of the proposer is legitimate and justified and, in particular, in the light of the adoption of the implementing law, which we are already honestly late. However, the commitment to a fiscal rule that we have enshrined in the Constitution is just the basis on which we have to set the proper cover for our public finances. While we are following the commitments made under the international Stability Treaty, the success of these commitments cannot be sought in relation to the implementation of the fiscal rule, so that more than we will limit and tighter the financial diet, we will also be able to get to the green branch. Simulations of the use of the strict financial diet of today's proposal show that between 2016 and 2018 we should save a billion EUR 300,000. Let us ask ourselves where we are going to take this, whether it will be in the social state, the economy or investment. As has already been said today, some countries are already so indebted, we know Germany, Italy, Japan, Greece, some are regional, world rulers, and Greece is a case of bad practice and in great difficulty. What we are talking about today is that in some way we need to limit what we create and what we spend, it is also true. Therefore, I must say that my perception of this proposal is relatively favourable. However, in order to balance the budget, we need to have different tools at our disposal, which we will use so that we do not depend solely on the time and state of the finances and trends of the international economic environment. Thus, at a time when we are on the path of economic recovery, where we are also now, we must avoid excessive and unreasonable self-regulation in a way that will make the law the anchor of our public finances even when we can sail more calmly on the wings of growth against economic development. And that's what I personally think is very important and what I'm worried about. The excessive restrictiveness and rigidity of the proposal introduces a particular kind of trap into the law. I am not talking about short-term but possibly long-term in the event of economic recovery. Thus, the international and our own constitutional commitment to the balanced budgetary sector of the State does not justify actions which, on the other hand, could be flattering with exemplary obedience, a willingness to accept commitments and, on the other hand, would eat up the possibilities of action. If we seem to need a fiscal rule because of our own mistakes – they were and we are aware of them – and finally because of the European framework for joint action to combat macroeconomic imbalances, we must not close this narrow space because of our own recklessness and incompetence. For all that I personally agree with the objective of balance, but I do not agree with the path, so I will not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u23	Thank you. Mr. Magg has the word. Matthew Tonin, get ready for Mr Mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u24	Dear colleagues, have a good day! In my debate, I would like to draw attention or answer a few questions that arise with regard to the fiscal rule. The first question is why we need a fiscal rule at all – to stop the debt. Why, though, is it important to stop the debt — because otherwise the interest will sink and choke us. I do not know whether all Members of the National Assembly are aware that Slovenia currently devotes as much as 10% of its budget only to interest. That's over a billion euros, that's TES! Imagine how many debates we have and how many debates we have about TES and this strange and unnecessary investment! But every year we only pay interest for one TESH. I hope that comparison touches someone and that they'll start looking at these things differently. We do not introduce fiscal rules because ugly foreigners want us to do this, but because of preventing us from throwing money through the window every year. Imagine what we could do with that money, how many roads, how many bridges, what schools we could build. Public sector wages could also be increased and more. This is a very real problem that not many people in this country are dealing with. Second question. What does a fiscal rule or fiscal rule mean in particular? Some time ago, a constitutional amendment was adopted when we amended Article 148 of the Constitution, which requires that revenue and expenditure be balanced in the medium term. What does this mean in particular – medium-term balanced? Not today, not right away, but in a time period. The fiscal rule does not say that we must balance the budget at all costs today. But talk about the fact that in good times we have to do something at home, as it were, that we will be able to spend in those bad times. So fiscal rule says, in good times, when we're doing well, I'm putting something aside so that we can spend a little bit more and encourage economic growth when we're in crisis. It's not something forceful that you wanted to warn others. Third question. How quickly are we going to enforce the fiscal rule? Or debates on how quickly we should implement it gradually, very quickly and in a similar way. Now, if we delay implementing the fiscal rule, it means that our debt will continue to grow. If our debt increases, interest will increase. As interest increases, however, the share of the budget for all other expenditure decreases. And I hope that this is heard mainly by those who are for the great role of the State or for the country to have a wide range of arrangements and arrangements. However, if we implement it immediately today, some calculations require a further EUR 800 million to be cut into the budget. If we look at both scenarios, we find both scenarios painful. The first scenario is painful in the long run, the second scenario is painful immediately. But there's a big difference between them. If we delay with him, then we can carry the burden back to future generations, carry the burden, for example, to my daughter, who celebrated her first birthday a few days ago. However, if we implement it immediately or very quickly, it means that we or these present generations will have to endure these painful and painful moments in particular. If you have closely followed the expert discussions on the fiscal rule – there have been several – if, for example, you have read an article in the Finances of Jorg Petrovich, the First Deputy Court of Auditors, he has very clearly warned and highlighted: "Our Constitution, 148th Article clearly states that the state must have no structural deficit, while on the other hand the EU fiscal pact allows it to minus 0.5% of the GDP of the structural deficit. This is a difference that we must be aware of when we discuss the fiscal rule that there is a difference between what the European Union requires of us and what we have in the constitution. We currently have a slightly more rigorous and harsh provision in the Constitution, and therefore the proposal for this fiscal rule follows this constitutional provision, while for once I can say that the government proposal does not follow this constitutional provision and follows the fiscal pact of the EU. With regard to the fiscal rule, I can certainly say that, although it is painful, it is good. Many things in life are so that even though it is difficult, it is painful, but in the long run it turns out that it was good and necessary. However, that no one will understand that this fiscal rule, that everything is great, but that everything is wonderful, nevertheless, has also indicated some shortcomings or some problems in these fiscal rules themselves. And one of the problems that several economists are dealing with is the difficulty in calculating the data used in calculating the limits in the fiscal rule. For example, it has been very exposed to the calculation of GDP, which, as we can see, is changing from year to year and different estimates are being made. And this calculation of GDP is used in the formulae and calculations of the fiscal rule and in the limitation of the budget. It's definitely some kind of problem that's being suggested. And another problem that seems crucial to me, which can also help us in our decision-making on this law, is what can happen or what can happen if the situation in the middle of the year or in a certain year changes significantly. If essential, if they change dramatically, the fiscal rule provides for certain exceptions. But if, I will say, they change circumstances significantly, but the government must act to follow these budgetary rules to follow the fiscal rule. And he has two options at his disposal. One option is to raise taxes to meet the requirements of the fiscal rule or to reduce the expenditure or expenditure of the state budget. In times of shocks and significant changes, both measures – tax hikes and spending cuts – may add extra oil to the flames of the crisis. As a result, in recent days you have been able to read in expert discussions – which is the better limit proposed by fiscal rules? The fiscal rule that we are applying today, which was submitted by Members, sets the ceiling for expenditure for the restrictive formula. On the other hand, the draft prepared by the Government in some way places the restriction on the deficit. And the expert interpretations are that in such cases, when things change in the middle of the year, it allows for more room for manoeuvre, this rule proposed in the proposal for a fiscal rule bill in order to set a ceiling for expenditure. Since the expenditure ceiling is set, it is not necessary to adjust the expenditure to the deficit itself in order for you to ensure some legality or legal implementation of this fiscal rule. I'm aware that this matter is very complicated and difficult, that it's not some kind of thing that could just be thrown over your shoulder. That is why uncritical debates are all but meaningless, that the ugly European Union requires some of us to make this nation more difficult and more difficult for us. I hope we are aware that the fiscal rule is being introduced primarily for ourselves and for future generations. And the law that is on the table today, I think, is a good basis for us to continue with it to receive support today. In view of the fact that any fiscal rule requires a two-thirds majority, I do not know whether it would be wise for the coalition or for the government to consider supporting this law and trying to amend it in accordance with their wishes. If the relations between the coalition and the opposition are tightened here, then we will not accept this for a long time, which is once again a great harm and a weakness for the country. My proposal would be for the coalition to support this law today and then to complete it further with the procedure, as you think it is right. It seems acceptable to me in such a form as it is proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u25	Thank you. Mr. Magg has the word. Ange Logar, get ready for Dr. Franz the Crusader.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'd like to begin with the sentence given by Mr. Shircelj. He said, "Let's be aware that we're in an unconstitutional position." I don't know if this message has hit this temple of democracy hard enough to convince the present and also those Members who are absent that it is necessary to apply the provisions as soon as possible and the commitments we have entered into the constitution. Once again, we are in an unconstitutional state. Let me begin by correcting the words of the President of the Committee on Finance when one of the reasons why they do not support the present proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which introduces similar solutions to those of Switzerland and Sweden, said that economic legality is not the same as in Switzerland and Sweden. They're exactly the same. The market operates in its own way, the difference is in implementation and the difference is in implementation. And here we have a problem in Slovenia. If we did not have a problem in the field of implementation and implementation in Slovenia, we would not be discussing this today. Then we wouldn't be in an unconstitutional position for a year either. And yet we are. I regret that the government of Alenka Bratušek did not have the courage to adopt the implementing law during its term of office. Here she cited some five reasons, five uncoordinated areas, although I am sure that the main reason is somewhere else. Her recent political godfather and mentor, aware of what fiscal rule means, did not allow her to do so. Unfortunately, the government of Mir Cerar obviously does not have this courage. If I had this courage, I would not have already stated in the first paragraph of my position that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia opposes the proposal for a fiscal rule law. For other proposals, the Government usually explains and concludes by stating that it opposes the individual proposal for these reasons. But here we have a brutal fact in our very first act. But we do know that the government of the Republic of Slovenia under the leadership of Mir Cerar has no courage. We witness this every day. Last but not least, the most eloquent evidence was the negotiation with the public sector, where the government was already kneeling at the first threat. It is somewhat unusual that the government opposes this fiscal rule law, while several articles are exactly the same as those prepared by the government, and that some articles or most articles are substantively similar to or the same as in our proposal for a fiscal rule law. There's only one difference. So-called Swiss formulas. If you'll allow me to simplify things a little bit. While the government of Mira Cerar, I do not know whether an angina or pneumonia with a cure, we propose an antibiotic-based instrument in the Slovenian Democratic Party. And it's not really the reason you say that this bill is more papal than the pope and that we don't have to accept it. See if I'm still a little graphic. Those ladies who like chocolate, you'll understand. If you have a problem with chocolate addiction, and we have a problem with debt addiction, and you want to get rid of this problem, you have two options: either leave 300 grams of chocolate in the freezer or in the fridge and say that I will only eat one plate today. Or you can pinch one of your plates, leave it in the fridge, and hide the chocolate. The lady, not to Sweden or Switzerland, may have 300 grams of chocolate there because she knows that she will only take one piece and her need for chocolate will suffice. Obviously, in Slovenia, which we are also convinced by practice, it is not enough to cut off a piece and say, "Ah, there are extraordinary circumstances, there is cold, rain, at work I was not fine, I am a little sad, I will take another piece." And that's how a piece of it goes after a piece, so we can end up with a billion 200 euros each year for interest. Who's in charge? And if we need such legal arrangements in Slovenia to put only a piece of chocolate in the refrigerator, obviously this is the right formula for us, the Swiss formula. It is also interesting that the law proposed by the Swiss formula is largely similar or identical to that prepared by the Ministry of Minister Chufer. And you know who the secretary of state was back then? Mrs. Vranitzer. Do you know who the Secretary of State is today? Mrs. Vranitzer. And then this marriage proposal was appropriate, and today it says: The Government of the Republic of Slovenia opposes the proposal for a fiscal rule law. One person changes his position within three months. Mrs Vraničareva has said several times on the Committee on Finance that she is simply carrying out the tasks given by the Minister. I believe so. I also believe why this conversion took place. This establishment was announced by Minister Marble at his hearing. So let me read you a quote. When our colleague from the United Left rumbled over the fiscal rule and suggested that this fiscal rule should be withdrawn from the constitution, Mr Marble replied as follows, quote, delete from the Constitution of the fiscal rule: "I like this radical idea." And today this radical idea is slightly de-radicalized in this version to remove the Swiss formula from the proposal. Our purpose of the law is to offer assistance to the government, to offer an instrument to enable it to implement a sustainable fiscal policy, which it has committed itself to in the coalition contract. The logic is different. The logic of the government is that when you think about it, we want to make it a law to make it difficult for them to work. No, it's not. We give you an instrument, just that, look at what a beautiful journey – she proposed SDS. You'll always be able to say that. Look, this law has proposed SDS. And on the basis of this instrument, you will make your reforms easier and more effective. And to conclude with words or with an argument from the uncontested Commissioner who wanted to present here the reasons why this proposal in the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek would not be supported. She said that in 2006, 2007 and 2008, the government acted most contrary to the fiscal rule. See, 2006, 2007, 2008 we had the largest economic growth in the history of Slovenia. And this, look, for the left-hand parties, is the best argument to support our proposal for a fiscal rule. For in those years when the Slovenian Democratic Party is back in power and there will be record growth under the leadership of Mr Janša, you will be able to come out with this fiscal rule and you will say, "Do as the Swiss formula requires and the fiscal rule works. Once again, our intention is to give the government an instrument, use it, not just because it was proposed by the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u27	Thank you. The word is from Dr. Franz Križanič, get Mrs. Susana Pretty Šimenko ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u28	Dearly Honourable High Council! The fiscal rule is actually an instrument taken by economic policy to help it regulate economic policy, fiscal, monetary, during the recession and the period of the economy in a way that does not significantly increase public debt. Certainly, however, to increase less than the growth of gross domestic product. The fiscal rule means that, during the recession, we have a deficit, a period of financial surplus. This surplus is usually lower than the previous deficit due to economic growth, as it simultaneously replaces and reduces the share of debt in GDP. The calculations here are pretty complicated, there are some deviations, so it's not good to put too much pressure on the rule. It makes sense, however, to put it in some way that the state does not owe itself in the long run. I think that the government proposal is well thought out enough to lay down the criteria for compliance with this rule. I expect that he will also find greater support in the opposition, particularly in those who now propose also those, as I would say, at the level of the domestic tasks of the solution made. The role of the State in establishing fiscal balance and economic growth has been recognised and important at least since 1929, since that major crisis. Of course, we had a specific role to play in the country or economic policy in the period 2004-2008, when the Slovenian national economy was in debt, I think about 80% more than it was due before, the total macroeconomic debt increased to 40 billion. Handicraft was catastrophic, and a lot of it came through the banks. Part of this commitment was, of course, due to the abandonment of the Bank of Slovenia and part of one special project, the so-called withdrawal of the country from the economy, which encouraged managers to rent cheap loans and buy their businesses. Literally, the Soda and Kad representatives went from business to business and explained that they were withdrawing, and so the managers began looking for options to establish a stable ownership structure, and eventually they just volunteered for these co-owners. That's how the tycoon crisis came about. Thus, this macroeconomic debt, which occurred between 2004 and 2008, was linked and was part of the country's economic withdrawal crisis. When the crisis occurred, three billion euros were drained due to the short-term nature of these claims. The State was forced to take them first by means of treasury coins and later by issuing bonds on the global market, medium-term, long-term loans, also by placing them in banks and replacing the fallout of the basis for normal lending of the economy. This, of course, makes us strong now, we have a lot of money loaded, we are quite liquid, this is about a third of the current public debt, as the Minister has pointed out in response to my Monday question. Therefore, public debt has increased over time much more than the public deficit and fiscal rule of this type of public debt growth, where the state is simply saving an economy that cannot repay for such a short period of time the credits it has taken in anticipation that these loans will, in the medium or long term, fall and that they will also be available so that they will not have to be repaid as Ceaușescu to zero. Here, of course, Slovenian public debt has increased significantly above all parameters. During the period of the Pahor government, this reached 15 billion, now 30, from 7 to 15 has increased over the period of the Pahor government, of which part due to the public financial deficit, and part due to the placement of money further as deposits in the bank. It is important that these deposits or other plasmaes have an adequate return to cover interest, and that this relieves the payment of full interest and, in time, that money also withdraws, returns and that such a state presence in the economy is reduced, more by credit than through ownership. Of course, economic policy makers have made another one in the period 2004-2008: they have introduced tax reform. And again, we can't blame it without knowing how wide a circle we know exactly which people have proposed it and who in the Ribno Hotel conceived an excessive reduction in tax rates and the abolition of taxes on paid wages. According to the Ministry of Finance, this has led to a structural public deficit or a fall in income – the one that arises during the period of the economy and recession – for EUR 900 million. AMF gave a little lower, but also in this ranking 800 million. Thus, other institutions have also noted this error and the delegation of the International Monetary Fund has proposed not to introduce it. During the period of rapid economic growth and one of the largest conjunctures in the period following World War II, this reduction in tax rates has had an impact on accelerated inflation, competitiveness and higher external trade deficits. So overheated and so "declared" the economy was then won by the Pahor government, which had no other choice but to encourage all qualitative development factors, in particular the increase in resources for research and development, and thus ensure a stable growth in exports, despite being highly overestimated against all the currencies of our trading partners, against the Chinese renminbi, there can be 80, 70%, against the dollars 15, 20% and everything else. Nevertheless, we have ensured the growth of exports, diversified, geographically, by industries, and some stability that is now being given to us by the external trade surplus of more than 2 billion. Thus, the problem of a large structural deficit, which was further deepened in 2012, by reducing corporate income tax rates and introducing new incentives. And that's in a situation where we had a huge public financial deficit. So current proponents – not exactly the same, this very tough fiscal rule law, which we are of course urging them to support government law, should not be too critical not to get angry, because – they have reduced the tax rate, they have acted contrary to what they should then do under this fiscal rule, at least they should not lower tax rates. At the same time, they reduced by around 400 million public spending, leading to up to 800 million GDP cuts, causing a double-bottom crisis. Then they stigmatized the banks and created some virtual banking crisis, which eventually became a real banking crisis. They created the situation of an abnormal recapitalisation of banks, the dispossession of banks, followed by the next government, and in this way things took place until today. So today, the situation is that we have too much state money in banks, we have too much capital, these banks can never generate returns on that capital. They are expected to be provided with judicial protection or to be provided with judicial protection for the owners who are allowed small shareholders to face further damages, it is said, even a series of riots. Nevertheless, we are a strong, small open economy, export oriented, export based on knowledge, introduction of new technologies, new approaches and new solutions, on diversification of products. I expect that, however, credit activity will take place, in particular because of the European Central Bank's actions, that something will come, and the signs are that it is also coming here. In the face of all the problems that now fall in the value of laundry and fluctuation in the implementation of European investments, however, we can look forward to economic growth and a gradual improvement in the public financial balance. The structural deficit that we have cooked with the 2007 and 2012 tax reforms will have to be addressed. In part, we eliminated it by raising the VAT rate and raising excise duties, and some resources would have to be found for about a third of those 900 or 170 additional ones. We have a third left, and I expect this to be resolved in the coming years, on the income side, because it is there, and in an economy that operates at the level of a post-industrial society and requires a strong quarterly sector, strong education, strong health, strong culture, science and security. You can't have very low taxes in such an economy, that's right for colonies.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u29	Thank you. Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka has the floor. Get Mrs. Ludmila Novak ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, distinguished Secretary of State! I will start with this: public finances in Slovenia are not balanced, we are an extremely highly indebted country. The public debt according to the latest figures is around 82 % of the gross domestic product. Perhaps someone would say that, given the average public debt, the European Union's debt or one of the members of the European Union, this is not much, but we must not forget that the public debt was 22% of gross domestic product at the end of 2008. And what's worrying about it? An alarming trend in public debt growth is, but also, the fact that we are able to repay this public debt at all. The economic power itself in Slovenia is not good and it is therefore justified to be concerned about this. If I return to 2007, we even had a budget surplus of 0.5% of gross domestic product. In 2008, there was a budget deficit, which could be called a moderate – 1.9% gross domestic product. Unfortunately, after 2008, it was always over 3% of the gross domestic product. So above the limit of 3%. In 2013, even 14.7%, which is, of course, due to the so-called rehabilitation of the banking system, but we know how it works today. In 2014, it is estimated that the deficit will be €1.2 billion, which will amount to 4.3% of gross domestic product. Once again, high above the objective we have in the stability programme. As we are aware, Slovenia has been in a deficit process since 2009 and, following the recommendations of the Council of the European Union, we need to address this budget deficit below 3% of gross domestic product. Due to the extremely high level of indebtedness, we have to spend almost EUR 1.1 billion per year on interest, as already mentioned by our colleague Tonin. This is almost 13% of all the revenue we receive in the budget. To make this easier for you or for citizens and citizens to imagine in front of television screens, that is about as much as if you had to pay EUR 770 a month for interest of EUR 100. We need to pay back the loans, with interest, of course, and it is appropriate that the burden of this irresponsible policy action is not on citizens and citizens. And it's not on the economy either. Unfortunately, this is exactly what has been happening in recent weeks — with the resurgence of taxes. In order to prevent this headless debt and thus to bear the burden of the crisis to the economy, to citizens and citizens, and especially to generations after us, it is essential that we have the rules for the implementation of the fiscal rule as clearly and unequivocally as possible written. No government can take the right to spend more than it can create. And by spending more than we create that gap between what is wasted and what is created even increases, it costs us more from month to month. Most of all, this will cost our children, but because of the uncertain future of Slovenia, they are becoming less and less. As we know, the birthrate has been shrinking again since 2011. This is why, at the end of May, the National Assembly added to the Constitution a provision that the budget of the Republic of Slovenia must be balanced in the medium term without any debt. The implementing law on the fiscal rule should be adopted by the end of November 2013. But since we are talking about him here today, it is more than obvious that we have not yet accepted him. The delay in the adoption of this implementing law of the previous Government, as well as for the current government, represents a more difficult adjustment to the entry into force of the constitutional provision in 2015. Personally, the fiscal rule law before us today seems extremely good. And I'm going to give you two key reasons. The first is because it contains a formula which very clearly sets out the calculation of the ceiling of the expenditure of the State. And secondly, it is that it clearly defines in which exceptional circumstances the state may derogate from the principle of medium-term balance of public finances. And this is when there is a significant deterioration in the economic situation, and it is again defined here when the real economic downturn is more than 3% in a given year, and the second is when natural and other accidents occur. The purpose of this constitutional rule is to prevent a steady increase in the country's indebtedness. That is why I really think it is appropriate for us to adopt this law as soon as possible. And believe me, this is a really good marriage. In Slovenia, however, it is more than obvious that we are not able to have a marriage that is too flimsy. We need concrete measures and specific things in the law. The same applies to this fiscal law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u31	Thank you. Mrs Ludmila Novak has the floor to prepare Mr Andrej Cuz.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u32	Your Honor, hello! The Constitution is the highest legal act adopted by a two-thirds majority. This means that a high consensus was reached at the time of adoption. Thus, in May 2013, with high support, we agreed to write a fiscal rule in the constitution. And we did it. Why? Because it's good for us and our country. If something is good and right, and there is a certain obligation under the Constitution, why are we not able to stick to it? Of course, we should put a little more effort and a little more denial into fulfilling this commitment. Obviously, we are not able to do this because we are not aware of the consequences of this disastrous delay and delinquency. We all know how quickly the country's indebtedness has increased in the last year and that we do not yet have the solutions to stop this increase or reverse the trend. If I make a case from the agricultural economy, we could say that we are buying expensive seeds, which we then eat, instead of sowing them and multiplying them. We also eat or spend our debt on current needs instead of investing in the promotion of the economy, new jobs and sectors where we still have reserves, such as tourism. At the same time, without rationalisation and denial, it will not work. We can no longer save on the payment of debts and at the same time on the day-to-day debt. We have written down the fiscal rule in the constitution, we have not adopted the implementing law in six months, but it will soon be here in May and with this for two years. That is why we are also in New Slovenia distrustful of this government or any other government, and we are afraid that it will not stick to its obligations. Unfortunately, most governments are subjected to daily pressure from interested groups struggling to maintain standards and status, but we cannot pay them anymore. The fiscal rule is harmful, the real young Luka Moon of the United Left. What would happen if that rule were not at all! Is it really possible to get out of trouble by continuing debt? Only with the bankruptcy of the country and possible cancellation of debts in the most ideal case. Between poverty and chaos. The exodus of young people was due to the postponement of the proposal by the countries and only to debt and expenditure. To recover, drastic measures were needed to show improvement now. Some countries have done so, for example Ireland and Latvia as well, and improvements are already being made. Economic activity is declining and unemployment reduction is only apparent due to subsidised employment programmes that do not bring lasting solutions. To meet national needs, we impose new taxes on the economy, thus driving many companies abroad and potential investors into new jobs to other countries. Why? Because there policy is aware that the economy is the one paying taxes so that the state can meet its needs. It is for this reason that a more precise and strict rule must be laid down in the law, how and when our budget will be levelled. Of course, it can be painful right now, but it is medicinal, which could also be taken from everyday life or even medicine. Sometimes you have to cut it to hurt if you want to get better. I am aware that it is not possible to just take, but especially those who already have nothing. But above all, create conditions for reforms, faster employment, remove bureaucratic barriers, amend labour legislation that will allow more flexible employment, because then we will have more and no less employees. We need to set our own limits and carry out reforms. I look forward to the time when, once again, I will mention, Luka Mesec, Prime Minister, and the left will rule and we will just spend and have a good time. Unfortunately, perhaps not for a long time, then what happened to our previous country can happen to us. Let me make a joke, and then we'll order a spaceship and go for a month, but maybe there's different conditions than in everyday life. I will support this law because it is good for the recovery of Slovenian finances. Of course, with concrete and encouraging measures to strengthen the economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u33	Thank you. The word is given by Andrej Chuš, to prepare Mr Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! I think it was about a year and a half ago when the previous National Assembly adopted amendments to the Constitution, where a provision was adopted that the budget should be flattened without any debt. Otherwise, debt is possible in some exceptions and circumstances, which unfortunately have become quite common in Slovenia. Unfortunately, the Government of Mir Cerar has decided not to support the Slovenian Democratic Party's proposal, as the Minister has also acknowledged several times today that the government is not able to balance the budget, because we have a huge financial obligation both at home and abroad. It saddens me a little, it will be a hundred days of the government of Mir Cerar, and to this day I have not seen any specific system law. This is also recognised by members of the coalition. Everything is interventional, everything is horrifying according to emergency procedures, although at the declaration level you are particularly able to identify. And these findings are as clever as finding that the earth is round today. Really. And people are disappointed, we're disappointed. The problem of indebtedness began in 2009 or at the end of 2008, when the government of Borut Pahor was not able to respond adequately to the crisis facing Slovenia, Europe, too. And it has to be admitted, there have been many problems and many who have not responded properly. Unfortunately, we have not followed the example of those who have responded appropriately, and today they no longer know what the crisis is, but we take the example of a country that is more on the tails of development. We have committed in six years from 8 to 30 billion euros. This is the only anti-crisis measure that has been brought to the National Assembly or to the politics of the left governments in the Republic of Slovenia. And to this day, we have not had any structural action, but merely a debt on the account of maintaining the current state and financing of the hopeless policies of the Government of Mir Cerar. And you know who's going to be the loser of this state? The losers will be mostly young and the tribes that are yet to come. When a newborn comes into the world, he has 14,000 euros in debt. Given that these burdens are rising from day to day, we can be proud of how cheap we sometimes owe, it will get worse and our future in the country will get worse. So a lot of young people prefer to go abroad. And I'm sorry. I would also like to say that any left government that has so far been in debt, especially the government of Alenka Bratušek, has seen us as successful, as we owe ourselves cheap, as interest rates have fallen. In doing so, we were not even able to look at the global financial markets, for example, Croatia, which owed even less than we did. We owed more than Chile, Botswana, Croatia, and we probably didn't fight or fight for it. The situation in the budget is alarming. We only use one billion a year to pay off interest. And this situation calls for solutions and concrete measures, structural reforms, but I don't think that will be the case. Where are they now, ethics, a new policy that people have so supported when you are opposed to just implementing the constitution? We are in an unconstitutional state and, I don't know, for the second time, you will probably vote in this term against the constitution. And if this is a new policy and new standards, I'm worried about what kind of example you set for your peers and all those who look at us. Allow me at the end of the debate to quote former Minister Šuštersič, who in my opinion is one of the best financial experts in the country and could also read some of his opinions, he says: "The government proposal is contrary to constitutional provisions and often does not have the right economic logic. It is more based on the European Stability and Growth Pact than on the Slovenian Constitution. Even though we have adopted the pact ourselves, this does not mean that he is in charge of the constitution. It would therefore be most wise for the Government to withdraw its proposal and try to achieve the necessary political consensus by complementing the SDS proposal." Dear Members of the Coalition, I appeal to you, not only are you in the National Assembly to sit and look into the air, but you may be saving some crossword puzzle, but at least explain why you will vote against the principles you have so advocated in the election campaign. The hopes of voters for a new more ethical policy were soon shattered on the core of Slovenian political reality. Again, there was disappointment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u35	Thank you. Mr Uroš Prikl has the floor to prepare Mrs Marusha Škopac.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u36	Vice President, thank you very much. Maybe I'll start my own debate a little weird. I'm not sure the introduction of fiscal rules is the best solution. I'm really not sure. But I don't think that's essential right now. It should be known that two years ago, the policy decided to do so with virtually one or a large majority of votes in favour. And that's a fact today. Why did you decide that? Probably because, as long as there was agreement at the declaration level that we would care for the medium- and long-term sustainability of public finances, there was no effect in some way and we were sinking deeper and more indebted and we were doing debt to the next generation. The fact is, the constitution has been amended, the obligation is that we must adopt a constitutional law, i.e. a fiscal rule law. I am very sorry that he has not been accepted at this time. We're kind of in unconstitutional. But my firm belief is also that it must be prepared without reaching only the 60 votes, the two-thirds majority, preferably the majority of all Members, 90. And that's why we just have to congregate the species. I must be honest with you that I will not support this proposal. Not because the proposaler is an opposition party to the SDS, it is not at all essential to me. It seems essential to me that some of you have previously made comparisons that this bill is more papal than the pope. I wouldn't mention anything too bright here, but it seems to me he's more rigid than he should have been. I think that the 0.5% that still tolerates part of the fiscal balance is very, very important right now that we don't go, I'm gonna call it, so on the knife, and by doing so, we're going to affect some of the rights of the most socially disadvantaged. When I presented the position of the DeSUS Group on this proposal, I also said that if this law is supported, then the Intergenerational Fund, which will take care of it, I believe that it will soon live and care for the sustainability of pensions and for the lesser burden of the budget, is dead. This fund is then dead, it's impossible to form. My firm belief is that the law proposed by the Government is better than this law, especially for this reason, because it is less restrictive at the very beginning and it is gradual to stabilize public finances in the medium term if you want to normalise, and that this country achieves some long-term prosperity. I think this is essential, and I think it also holds to the fact that the Government has done everything necessary. I believe that also to all the parliamentary groups, the coalition is sure, because I have worked together and was with them, I believe that even to the opposition, she presented the solutions to this law, very clearly, a comparison of your bill and the one the Government has drawn up. And that government law, of course, convinced me. I will vote for him and not for that. I hope I've been sufficiently visual enough to be plastic enough to do that. I don't want to, I keep stressing this, at times when we're all paying the price in some way, and I'm going to allow myself to say some of the past decisions taken, and at this point I'm not interested in who made these imported decisions. At this point in time, I think that those who are a millimeter above the belt, and above all those who are below the limits of social exclusion, must not pay the price of the situation. And that's the main reason I'm going to support the government's law and not yours. In doing so, I express my hope, my desire, our desire to move in together, and we reach some consensus in the highest possible number. As it is said, I regret that this law has not yet been passed, but not lastly, for a few days or for a week or so, it seems to me that there is no rush or hasty in making the right decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u37	Thank you. Mrs Marusha Škopac has the floor to prepare Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u38	We will not support the proposed fiscal rule law in the SMC Group because it unduly limits the possibility of fiscal policy making. In addition, the SDS in the pre-election programme speaks of a golden fiscal rule, which, unlike the proposed rule, makes it possible to be in charge of investments. The proposed fiscal rule limits borrowing in both bad and good times. The so-called Swiss formula followed by the bill is not suitable for Slovenia, a country without its own monetary policy, which, in addition to fiscal policy, is another key instrument for managing economic shocks. The use of this formula greatly reduces the possibility of managing anti-cyclical and anti-shock fiscal policies, as allowed by the limitations of the Stability and Growth Pact. The proposed fiscal rule is sharper than the commitments of the Republic of Slovenia, which were adopted by the fiscal pact ratification, which further sets the minimum level of structural deficit at the level of -1% of gross social product. On the other hand, the bill before us requires structural balance of the budget, which would mean a greater reduction in public consumption or a perennial increase in taxes of 1% of gross social product. Structural balance is also our current medium-term objective set by the European Commission, but this can be reduced once Slovenia implements structural measures that will improve the long-term sustainability of public finances. The bill is also stricter than the European Commission's requirements. It makes it impossible to stimulate the economy in a period of decline in economic growth when the decline in economic growth is below 3% of gross social product and thus deepens future crises. It is also sharper than any fiscal rule in the history of the European Union. The Stability and Growth Pact provides that exceptional circumstances are defined as a fall in gross social product at an annual level of 2 % or as a cumulative decrease in production over a longer period of negative gross social product growth. However, the proposal we are considering today sets out exceptional circumstances much more stringent than a significant deterioration in the economic situation, which is defined as a decline in the economy in a given year of more than 3%. On 10 June this year, the International Monetary Fund warned that the fiscal rule laid down by the European Commission, which the SDS wants to legislate permanently in even sharper form, was wrongly imposed. According to experts from the International Monetary Fund, the rules of the European Union, which provide for a reduction of Member States' budgetary deficits, result in a reduction in public investment, an increase in procyclicality and thus prolong recessions. The International Monetary Fund has thus demonstrated that such fiscal rules are harmful. Therefore, the Government has prepared and has already sent its proposal to the National Assembly for a fiscal rule that is prepared in accordance with the international commitments received. We will not support the SMC party because of all the above proposed fiscal rule law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u39	Mr. Magg has the word. Branko Grimes, get Branko Zorman ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. It is interesting to hear what the coalition has to do with the Slovenian Constitution. Then a number of votes in the National Assembly, including a conscious violation of human rights, become understood as if the Constitution were something written there, and then we have little respect or disrespect if it does not fit us. You know, that's not how it works. The first and only commitment we have as legislators is the commitment to the Slovenian Constitution, only then come all other international and other acts that need to be taken into account. If someone does not like the Constitution, he can also change the constitution, but then he also takes responsibility for it. As long as the Constitution is as it is, it must be respected. And what is the essence of the story we are talking about today? It can be said in one way that is understandable to every citizen and every citizen. The path to hell is pressed with good intentions, says an old Slovenian proverb. I have no doubt that when Mr Pahor once took over, at the end of 2008, the government had the best intentions. But what did they do? By then, the crisis had worsened in the international space and, of course, it also had an impact on Slovenia. Obviously, this was then obvious to every drone to reduce the tide. This has already been shown by all economic indicators. But what did Pahor's government do? The balance in which she acknowledged that lower tides would, at the same time, increase spending on almost a billion euros, and that everyone needs to be credited. And that's how it started. From independence to the Pahor's government, Slovenia's debt, along with what we inherited from the South, was a good 7 billion euros. This commitment decreased slightly between 2004 and 2008, during the time of the government of Janez Janša. And then it grew to the crazy 30 billion euros, as it is now. That is to say, only two governments of the transitional left, Pahorjeva and Alenka Bratušek, owed this poor Slovenia more than 20 billion net new debts. And what is the situation in Slovenia today? Every child, when born, has a transition left in his cradle inside for a gift to give him more than 14,000 euros in debt. To put it domestically, the transitional left-wings started a car into the wall and burned it so that it would never be able to drive again. But he'll pay for it. Or if you want from the point of view of one average Slovenian four-member family. The Transition Left gives each family €56,000 in net debt. Today, it is a house in the White landscape or Prekmurje, a small lovely house that the transition left burned, blew up, sucked, and this family will never live in. But she'll pay for it. And what's craziest is that this very transition left obviously wants to continue to lead the same policy. New debts, new debts, upgrading new debts with the following debts. That's not how it works. In the modern world, that's not how it works, and you know it. And now this bill is coming. Today, virtually no longer is the manoeuvre in the budget, because interest already consumes everything that is available. And it's gonna get worse. But that's what he wants to build up to make an impression on how we're developing, even with new debts. And here's one fundamental problem. Even at the time of the previous government, however critical of it, at the time of its last end, we have begun to talk, to seek a consensus on the fiscal rule, that the next tribes are not allowed under any condition to leave payments for their own conduct, to settle them in debt, because it is destructive for the economy, for the country as a whole. And worst of all — even for her sovereignty and the welfare of people. At that time, negotiations were held, and I was myself at them, where we reached agreement on each sentence of the Fiscal Rule Act. Every sentence. All in attendance agreed. We've shaved every sentence for so long. And when this had to be accepted, Mrs Bratusek said, "You know, we won't support it." And that's how things stopped. Later under pressure from Germany, it is necessary to say directly, we have reconsidered again, and yet we have written the fiscal rule into the constitution. It is only necessary to adopt an implementing law, of course in accordance with the Constitution. And that's what we're looking at today. Again, the fruit of the negotiations and the consensus of the political parties in the previous term. But there's no trace of this consensus today. It is said, "Yes, you know, the constitution is or is not in force, we don't even care, it's a little strangely written, we're not going to do that, we're going to take into account what it says in some other acts of the European Union, because it suits us better." So roughly today is the coalition's debate here. This law, which is before us, is appropriate and is undoubtedly in conformity with the Constitution. You can accept it, you can do anything to improve it. But it is unacceptable to say that we have already prepared something better if Dr. Janez Šušteršič writes to you very clearly that the government has only done its law by trying to overwhelm the Slovenian constitution. These rights, ladies and gentlemen, there is no one. And that's why it's worth supporting this law. Not because of you, not because of us, but because of everyone and the next generation. Because any good master knows that he can only spend as long as he really does. And that's the essence of our law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr Branko Zorman has the floor to prepare Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u42	Madam President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government. I do not agree with the proposal for a fiscal rule law proposed by the SDS. But I disagree for a number of reasons. Not because the government's proposal for a fiscal rule has already been prepared and tabled, but because this proposal of yours is not the most appropriate or wise in certain contexts. When Slovenia adopts the euro, we no longer have some of our own monetary policies. And all we have left is fiscal policy. This proposal of fiscal law, however, essentially makes it impossible, given the current indebtedness of the country, which we know is almost 80% of GDP, of any kind either in good or in bad times. This Swiss formula has already been mentioned several times today, we have found that it is not used by any country other than Switzerland. That's probably not the case. The Swiss formula is likely to be suitable for countries with their own monetary policy at the same time. As Slovenia has said, it does not have its own monetary policy from the moment it entered the euro area. In addition, the provisions in this law are stricter than are required of us. In short, it is stricter than the limits adopted within the EU. In this so-called Swiss formula, we have already found that this potential volume of GDP is difficult to calculate because, on the basis of some past miscalculations or when changing certain conditions, these criteria can be substantially changed and then this formula can prove to be a significantly different result. This means that, at a certain point in time, despite the adoption of the budget, the government could, at some later stage in the year, fall into a situation where it would actually violate this fiscal rule because certain circumstances have changed. At the same time, I would also like to say this because today it has not been pointed out that in your proposal for a fiscal rule, someone has laid down a state debt above and below 45 % of GDP. Given that we know how Slovenia is in charge today, and we know that the country should no longer be in debt, that is clear, we will come from this 80% of GDP debt to 45% when certain tools are released under your law, we need my assessment, I don't know, but probably at least ten years. This means that for ten years certain budgetary users or unit of state could not have had a certain part of their revenue. And I'm going to illustrate. As long as this second criterion is not met, this is said to be below 45 % of the GDP of the State, in the case of the sale of any state property, the municipalities should make these purchases exclusively for the purpose of reducing the debt of the State. That's what it means to pay off the debt, the principal and the interest. The same story, which is even more unusual from the point of view of the municipalities, if the municipality had created some surplus and transferred it to the following year for some planned investment, in accordance with your proposal for a fiscal rule law, this would no longer be possible, but this surplus should go immediately to repay the debt, that is to say to reduce the debt, to reduce the principal and to pay the interest. This means that there is a fundamental limitation to some freedom or logical manoeuvre that certain actors in this country must have. For this reason, in our party, and also personally, we oppose further consideration of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u43	Thank you. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word, we are prepared by Mrs. Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Sometimes I feel like I'm listening to reading exercises. Reading exercises can be done at home, but they're looking at the spaghetti, and then it's the same as if it says so here, but it wasn't my purpose. I must say, I was very surprised when I listened to Mr. Mesco. I got really scared. I think we should ask the police for protection. So much knowledge in one head, you know we can't let go of this country. But then I saw him reading. So I stopped being afraid. I would also like to turn to Mr Križanič, who said again what I am always trying to complement him, and I will do it again. He talked about the liabilities between 2004 and 2008. Of course it's Yanshe's government. Mr. Križanič could, but I think he knows, but he's cheating, he knows that his washing machine or my TV doesn't decide if I take credit or he does. So the government doesn't decide on the loans that companies owe, etc. And you can't put that on the government, Mr. Krizanic. Otherwise, look at the fiscal rule, the golden rule, I don't know what the simple people who look at us think, so I'm going to try to say it in a way that simple people understand. These are important in my opinion. Every farmer knows exactly what must be in the ticks in December. So much of that, so much of that, so much of that. In the spring, however, he must remain so long as he is able to sow so that he can be put back into his jaws in autumn. Ladies and gentlemen, this is all wisdom. That's all wisdom. So the country can spend as much as it has. And no more. For the sixth or seventh year, we have eaten with a large spoon at the expense of those who are not yet in the world. When I listen to you, how your proposal for a law that will come is better than ours. Look, how is your proposal for a marriage better than ours? A gunman you can't tell him is a member of the SDS, an economist with a doctorate, says the government is avoiding a fiscal rule, and that what you're proposing is an attempt to bypass the constitution. In the following detail he tells us and analyzes, I have too little time to speak so much, he accurately says that control under your law will not be possible. Of course not, because you don't set any limits. What is the medium-term period for you? Five years, ten years, or fifty years if you don't define it in years. So it's not possible to control it. The budget can therefore be unbalanced in the medium term. After all, you don't even tell me what the medium term is in your proposal. Is that a hundred years or what? He goes on to say that the country's indebtedness can therefore continue to increase. Which, of course, is true again. And this budget will not alleviate the economic crises – which would be the purpose of this rule. He even says that the government has a better proposal, namely, the SDS proposal, as he says, has none of these errors. He doesn't have any of the mistakes he's made to you. It therefore calls on you to withdraw this and to accept this proposal, which we propose. There's something else. You know, wise politicians, I can't say they're not in the government. Or they really aren't. But in the coalition, at least in that part, on that side, there are already old cats, you're more new, you might realize something that you also need a two-thirds majority. You need it, too. And if we were smart, we would do what? Amendments, today left this marriage in another reading and amended it where you think something needs to be corrected. No, no, no. Bang bang bang bang bang Drop it. Then we'll throw away yours, too. Then what are you going to do? And there won't be a two-thirds majority. That's not how politics works. If the proposer is an opposition party, it should be the majority of the party that will go to the front. I recall the period 2004-2008 when I played a role as mediator between the National Assembly and the Government in the image of the Secretary of State in the cabinet of the President of the Government. And I was much longer in the then opposition than in the coalition. A lot more time. In that office there, which the Government has at its disposal, we have coordinated many things. Ladies and gentlemen, you will not believe this. We have harmonised 66% of the laws in 2006, 2007 and 2008. The criteria, when something was coordinated, when not, were the opposition pressure on the "yes" button. Especially the esdeans, because the SD was the biggest. It's a blue policy. Just rejecting something for the reason that the SDS is a proponent is a policy that is not blue, which is a bad policy. But the poor politicians are leaving after the elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u45	Thank you. Mrs Marija Bachič has the floor to prepare Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u46	Madam Vice-President, Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In times of unfavourable public financial circumstances, any need to ensure the exercise of the rights of each social group is subject to strict assessment. The company has created a feeling that the assessment is based only on budgetary impacts and that the need should still be justified. Incentives are thus generally given uniform answers regardless of whether the Ministry or State authority or local community body is responsible. The answer is short: no money. The adoption of the law in the proposed form would, however, have been considered for a number of years to come, as the way in which the balance of the budget is carried out under international treaties is excessive and extensive. It may be a fundamental concern for the health of public finances, but it ignores people’s health and concerns about their well-being. It is often suggested that they must fulfil certain commitments that are justified in international agreements. However, these do not exclude the fulfilment of the commitments made by the State under the Constitution of protected rights. Nor does the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Management in the Economic and Monetary Union, where a fiscal agreement with the fiscal rule is recorded in Article 3, exclude this. The very assessment of the implementation of the fiscal rule is based on the question of how the implementation of the fiscal rule will affect the ability to provide care for vulnerable, vulnerable social groups. Their images, like many others, have been hidden by the figures in the budget lines. The implementation of the fiscal rule, as proposed by this law, is therefore only an additional excuse that measures that would contribute to the improvement of the quality of their lives will not be possible. True, many cases in the sky of drunken injustices have not been resolved even in the years when the booming economy has mirrored through the figures in the budget lines. Let me mention here just a few of the most urgent investment needs in the field of institutional protection for adults and children with special needs. Center for people with mental impairment on Fat Rtice, a bird school with a customized program or facility in Stara Gora, where children with moderate and severe development disorder live in a person's unworthy condition. The proposed fiscal rule law by adjusting expenditure, the revenue to regulate the situation, would certainly not make a positive contribution. The government as a key reason to oppose the proposal of the law underlines the restriction on flexibility in the application of fiscal policy. In order to address the problem of the most vulnerable groups in society, however, the flexibility of our thoughts should be released in parallel with the release of fiscal policy constraints. I hope that this will work when we consider the government proposal for a fiscal rule law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Get Mrs. Anja Bah Gibert ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u48	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Say hello again to everyone from this town! I don't have much time for a substantive debate, but I've mostly said my things, but I'd like to draw your attention to something. Where are the reasons for economic growth in 2004? In the konjunkture in our export markets and because of local investment projects, for example, also because of the mayoral elections. And what do we see next? Poor forecasts for our export markets, worst with the EU, Russia, Latin America and so on. And there won't be a second year of mayoral elections. These are real facts. Colleagues and colleagues, especially from the coalition, I ask you to consider allowing this law to continue today to give it the possibility of further adaptation, further improvements, perhaps some mix with government law. This law needs 60 votes, including the government's. That's the key. We may not have talked about this today, or we have talked too little. Let's do something for our people, for our children, and for our grandchildren. If there is no cooperation here, as we have been trained in the previous term in this law, there will be nothing out of this law and not out of government law. Nor will we pull the country out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u49	Thank you. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor. Let's get Mr. Tillen Christmas ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u50	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues and colleagues in the hall, including those outside the hall, and especially the Slovenian public! I am sorry that today's debate, which I think is very quality, is not the last thing we are talking about important matter, is somehow not wider, so it is said that quite a few fellow Members and colleagues have given up the debate. I believe that it could be even more quality if you were more involved in it. The constitutional law is almost certainly a commitment to citizens. The commitment to strengthen budgetary discipline by the State. The commitment that the country will act as a good master. The perception of the Ministry or Government, as well as in the views of individual parliamentary groups and individual discussers that the proposal for implementing law is more difficult than international obligations, is, in my opinion, not the right way. The very clear and binding provisions in the bill are those elements which guarantee that the desired objectives are achieved, and that is the balance of public finances and the behaviour of the responsible host. I think that the coalition should listen and actually help improve the proposed law, not just throw it out the window. Last but not least, the proposal prepared by the Government is loose, and in fact it does not follow the requirements of the constitutional law, which is clear, but now the Government wants to change it with some interpretations and manoeuvres. The commitment to constitutional law is clear: in 2015 the state of Slovenia should have a balanced budget. Of course we don't have this, but with your proposal for an implementing law, we are moving further away from this. But in the constitution, the dates are clear, and there's no way to interpret them in your own way. I also wonder whether it means simply adopting this law and only that we will somehow meet international requirements and say that we have the law and are no longer in violation of the Constitution. I believe that this law should only be adopted in order to actually start to regulate finances in the country as we should and to ensure our development and the success of society. The quality of public finances is certainly the easiest to ensure during the planning phase and the proposed law pays particular attention to this stage. You know, the biggest problem with the debt that we have witnessed both in the previous government and in this government is where this money is actually going. This government has borrowed a billion, and a billion two hundred we have to pay for the interest. Do we even know what we're doing? Was the money we borrowed in the past really deliberately spent on systemic solutions that would enable a healthy economy and development? The state of the country says it's not like that. Is it possible that citizens live better because of their indebtedness? No, no, no. Are we in charge of a greater perspective for the younger generation? No, no, no. Is the crisis behind us? No, no, no. Now I'm asking you what we could do with this billion two hundred if we had it today. Surely, at this meeting, which has been held since Monday, we should not have to discuss whether we have sufficient resources to rehabilitate a road that allows citizens to connect with the country. Would you talk about taxing a student’s work and making it even more impossible for him to live a normal life? Would you like to talk about the need to take funds from disability organisations? I'm sure you don't. It is well known and it has already been said that a Slovenian newborn is born with a heavy burden, a debt burden for which we are responsible today, regardless of who produced it. And the pace you envisioned in your government law does not improve this trend. And it would be our responsibility to change that and to write down in the law such commitments as will actually do so. You know, avoiding responsibility with some loose laws won't help in the long run. You're gonna have to pour yourself some clean wine sometime. I think it was well said earlier that we are not with Switzerland or that we cannot compare. Of course not, we can't compare with her, and we won't be able to for long. But ask the citizens what they would like. I'm sure you'd like Swiss wages and standards. Therefore, Your Honor, if we do not actually adopt laws that will be binding and will start changing things for the better, we will be able to wave the success stories forever. Goodbye! Goodbye, prosperity in this country! And that's the responsibility we have. I think it would be necessary to improve this law with your proposals, upgrade it, change it to move forward. By way of saying, at some point, nice of the opposition, because she made something, because if your marriage were the first on the table, we would probably discuss it. But this marriage is ahead of us, and it would be wise to bring it together to this stage, so that it actually means a step forward in the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr Tillen Christmas has the floor to prepare Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. Several times this has been mentioned today, some sort of a priori of opposition. I would still say that this is not a matter of opposition, and then I will somehow explain or try to explain. Now, in the beginning, that's it. I wouldn't be doing some historical review, I'd just say what kind of situation we're in right now. Let us say that with the latest measures that are taking place, as well as when we have looked at our parliamentary group, and have become familiar with the state of public finances in the Republic of Slovenia, we have found that we will have to withdraw from the clouds and that, in fact, when we reach the ground, it is a question of how hard this landing will be. In this hard landing, however, at least with us, we will take into account how this landing will be felt by the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, for whom we are here and who have also entrusted us with their votes. As far as we're concerned, or if we're going specifically with mine, there's no malice here or malice about your proposal. Absolutely not. In fact, I welcome him. I find this to be interesting, and this proposal is certainly welcome. Why? Today, too, we see that it has stimulated quite a bit of a constructive debate. Here came comments both on your solutions, and in the meantime there were comments on the solutions of this government proposal, which is certainly very welcome. Through all the additions that will now have to be made in the coming months, however, I think we will probably be making a government award, and eventually, as you said, it will be necessary to reach a very broad consensus. Here we're gonna have to get two thirds. And for up to two thirds, certainly your suggestions are very welcome. The ideas put forward, the criticisms made, will certainly be taken into account, because there are suggestions from all sides here because some intentions are good for us to come up with a common solution. Plus, what I'd bet is, it's positive, it's okay. This was the first step that was taken, the first draft, and I think it makes sense here, that there are a lot of things that we kind of imagine differently or that we would solve them in different ways and we will eventually add them to some of the best possible variant that will be acceptable for the widest circle. So now at first glance, when I looked at your proposal, which I thought was positive, the mathematical equation that you set is very simple. It is clear, I think that we can exempt anyone from the effects of the cycle, the economic cycle, the actual GDP in the denominator, from some of the revenues that the country achieves, and thus get a clear number. This is the so-called Swiss formula, which I would also like to say a little bit more about later. With regard to satisfying the EU's requirements, we have already found here that, as far as these requirements are concerned, they are being exceeded. As far as the powers of the National Assembly are concerned, in my view, in relation to the adoption or confirmation of measures to be taken by the Government, an interesting concept is also presented here. Now I would go on to danger and return to the advantage, because every advantage, if we look at it from more than one side, can have something positive, something negative. So the first thing that is is this Swiss formula or rigidity. If we look at Switzerland and their monetary policy, I think that Slovenian citizens still remember what it means that the country has its monetary policy, especially the Swiss franc. Those who leased loans in Swiss francs know what happened in relation to the Swiss franc to our euro, our common euro, if I say so. And this freedom that they had, what it meant to them, felt it in some way on their skin. And when there is a recession when we come to the konjunkture, Slovenia, too, until it was on the euro, used it very well. Very often. We are an export-oriented economy, and many times it helped exporters in this way when the Tolar fell, that we were all slightly more competitive together and thus stimulated the exports that pulled us out of the situation we were in, and assured us, let us say, already almost supernatural rates of economic growth, at least for some euro area or area of the European Union. As for the sharpness provided by the Swiss formula, in Slovenia we have often been somewhat strong enthusiasts or advocates of something more acute, saying something stronger and that we will guide or set some criteria for others to follow our example. In certain cases, it's good, in some, it's bad. Let's say it was bad at the time in the case of the duty free shops when we gave them up, it was bad in this case, which we are feeling right now, and this is the connection of citizens to municipal infrastructure, when we came to 50 units of that condition, not 2,000 when we have to connect to this network or the common cleaning device. This will cause us to feel the consequences, or we will likely talk about it in this congregation. So, if I say so, we ran ahead of each other and wanted to show up in front of others. The result is not necessarily better for us or for the Republic of Slovenia. What still bothers me about this Swiss formula is what happens when a difficult situation arises, what we can do then. More than once, it has also been said here by the proposer that raising taxes is unacceptable and additional burden on the economy. On the other hand, it has been said that we must not engage in social transfers because it is already such a difficult situation. However, no matter how we turn this around, if such a rigorous formula is applied, it will actually have to be affected, because no matter what we do, the issue will have to be balanced in the medium term, as you said before, for example, that is relative, in your proposal you also said how you imagine the medium term. What the EU has put on the table is not clear there or can be somewhat relative. And during this period, the matter will have to be brought to zero. It is said that here some derogations or anything will not be possible to give, because then we come into an actual illegal situation. What is then problematic, I think, is that if we want to somehow mitigate the effects of these cycles, recessions, conjunctures and so on, we can have a wide range of measures to implement countercyclical policy. In fact, it has proved in all these years, or all of mankind’s history, that for a time it goes up, for a time it goes down. From the point of view of some, this may be adrenaline, and they like to experience it, but from the point of view of most people, this is a very stressful situation. And in that case, I think that somehow more countercyclical approach is needed and a slightly greater deviation is allowed. I've already mentioned the length of the measures. Recessions last a very different length of time. The stagnation period in some countries can last decades, and recessions have also lasted decades. When we limit something, let's say seven years was mentioned there, I don't know if it's set right. I don't think so. We should tie it to something else. As for what I mentioned earlier, the powers of the National Assembly. It provides that after three months, at least this is my understanding, a relatively strong government action will begin at that time. Thus, if it is not confirmed, it is said that the State is making proposals that if there is no consensus in the National Assembly or the adoption of the National Assembly and after three months, we have a serious problem. The state, says the government gets very broad powers and in my opinion starts to drive things the way it thought it would. At that time, there may be a conflict between the national assembly and the government. And in such a case, the government may fall. In times of recession, it is somehow a practice for governments to change substantially faster because of all the other pressures. Not only because we would be dealing with some rigorous financial measures in a narrower sense based on the fiscal rule, but also because of everything else, there is also general dissatisfaction and so on, which actually gets started, gets wings. The fact is that the government can fall substantially faster and due to significantly minor errors. Let's just say it's perception so it could be mistakes. Then, as far as the fiscal world is concerned, as far as the Government's proposal is concerned, this proposal very quickly defines what the fiscal world is, what its powers are, probably in a broader sense, but in terms of the attitude towards fiscal rule and the realization of what is going on and how the matter will be implemented. Nevertheless, he is given very broad or important tasks, broad powers. I believe that when such a fiscal world is established, at least in the Republic of Slovenia will have some reputation among people, I suppose. As this is going to happen, it should go at least in my opinion, for the really good experts, the thoughtful people who will lead these things, and what they will say, not only will it have an impact on how the Government will react, how it will react to the National Assembly or how it can react, but also how people will imagine whether the problems or problems that have arisen are being dealt with in the right way. Before that, there was some debate, when it started, I don't know, over-indebted country, when a strong expansion policy based on loans began. I think that this debate does not contribute to a better solution or to a better fiscal rule law, so I would certainly not go into this. The last thing or the last one is, as I mentioned earlier, I see here some conceptual differences that will need to be worked out, from the formula forward, then to some missing segments, here I mentioned the fiscal world, then I also mentioned as regards the procyclicality of this policy, because, as we say, we no longer have monetary, which means that we all bet on fiscal policy, that's on tax collection and consumption of these. My objection, I hope you won't take it as a priori of rejection. I've been trying to sort of sum up what's kind of bugging me about what I'm worried about and why I'm rejecting this proposal. However, I do have two more questions for the proposer. While you have already followed this debate, why such an aggressive formula is said to be what is adopted in the constitution or understanding of that article. Now I wonder if it is possible, at least on your part, how you can see or whether you could think in a way that somehow makes it easier and how you think that would be acceptable. The second point is precisely this length or period to which the measures relate, these specific measures. How do you actually comment on this length of action, how do you view this proposal, which is in law or normal duration, and how would you actually do it if there was a recession that was significantly longer? So, what would be the effect, in your opinion, and how could we come out of this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor to prepare Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u54	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President, colleagues and fellow Members. I have now listened carefully to Mr Christmas's debate, and I must say that it was a good debate, and therefore I believe that perhaps only this matter could be confirmed today, so that the debate can go on, let's say, with your amendments. I haven't been able to track down one of the real priorities of opposition just because that's what we're proposing. Allow me to begin with, given that soon this Christmas time will be, to say one difference between a socialist and a liberal Christmas. In a socialist Christmas, parents get gifts from the country and children pay for them. At a liberal Christmas, parents give gifts to children who are also paid by their parents. Unfortunately, we have been living in Slovenia for too long during a socialist Christmas. Unfortunately, there are too many socialist Christmases, so I am so much more surprised when I listen, even from one party, there opposite me, to defend that any intervention in terms of fiscal rule, in terms of the need for a balanced budget, is completely unnecessary and even harmful to the social state. They just like to play the strings of the social states. I believe that the social state would be significantly less threatened today if this fiscal rule were adopted by the Pahor government. We know that in 2007, during the first Janša government, we had our first balanced budget, and the social state suffered nothing. I had to go to the office to get Milton Friedman's book Capitalism and Freedom. Great author, great book. I think that this book should be placed in every Slovenian household, in every Slovenian home, in order at least to shed some light on this socialist spirit, which has now been a pretty good time for many years. When we talk about some democratic socialism that we need some planning economy and then the political rights of some Western Democratic Socialism is just as much as if I said I saw a black horse of white color walking on the blue green. [[...]] The difference between us and the socialists is that we have confidence in man, confidence in freedom and that we advocate economic freedom as a fundamental prerequisite for all further freedoms: political, personal and so on. That is why I see the need to confirm today this proposal submitted by the Slovenian Democratic Party. When we look at all the billions that we've been indebted to in recent years, one fundamental question arises to me: Where is this money? How many people live better because of these 10 billion in the last two years? How many smaller companies have fallen because of these 10 billion? They're going down because of these 10 billion. And the social state is shrinking because of these 10 billion. We are defending national interest in relation to this fiscal rule. The national interest was reportedly to have an airport or airport Ljubljana owned by the State. And this national interest means you can't, except in some of the major cities of the former south of the countries, as far as Moscow, Frankfurt, wherever you want to fly, you have to go to some neighbouring airport. We are defending the national interest of Adrio, who is flying 350 euros in London and Easyjet 50, 60 euros. Ladies and gentlemen, this is only a national interest in Slovenia! Since we are protecting state-owned companies because we have been in constant debt, we also know that these companies have survived, that they have been sued by a variety of individuals, supporters, we know which political options. Regardless of what you think, however, I believe that in the country, we should be able and, above all, should rule in the same way as we do at home. I think that whether someone on the left or someone on the right is doing the same thing at home doesn't deserve a thousand euros and a thousand 500 is spending them, because it just doesn't work. But we do state money because nobody ever answers because everyone thinks it's not our money, because there's no problem with what's a million, billion, ten billion. The government comes and goes. The messengers come and go, and no one is responsible. The revenue and expenditure side of the budget, we see that taxes are being raised again, we are working only on the revenue side to seriously start cutting on the expenditure side, and the government, including the government of Mira Cerar as before, I think we are united, we are somehow a hostage of trade unions, especially of the public sector unions. But no one tells these gentlemen that when they advocate a certain segment, when they advocate the rights of employees in the public sector, we are losing jobs in the real sector. And no one tells these gentlemen or tells them, but they probably question that it is they who can defend the public sector, that they have anyone to defend, because the economy finances and produces money, that the public sector can even exist. And the unions are one of the biggest pests here, who have every government as a hostage, with one of course they deal faster, with the other they're a priori against. Although I do not know what measures there are, there are truffles and trade unionists' truffles on Slovenian streets and markets. Since the debt in the past, we have had nothing, except for the fact that we now have to squander social rights. If we had adopted this fiscal rule in the past, I am sure we would not have such a debate here today. Billions have gone missing in banks, and the problem is to provide money somewhere else that is more needed. That is why I hope and urge you, at least here after this first debate, to support this proposal from the Slovenian Democratic Party. You will be able to amend it, and there will be further discussions that will lead us to finally adopt a law that will be good not only for the country, but also for our citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec, your word. Get Mr. Jože Tanko ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u56	Thank you, Vice President. The fact is, we've been in violation of the Constitution for a year. And I think at least we politicians should know what the Constitution is. That it was our primary lead in the operation. We have also been in breach of the Stability and Growth Pact for almost five years because we committed something in the European Union in 2009. Under the Act on measures in the area of salaries of other public sector labour costs for 2015, the Government itself stated that Slovenia is on track to consolidate public finances. In the past, it has already implemented certain measures. Then let's go. Slovenia has been in the excessive deficit process since November 2009. This means that it must lead fiscal policy by ensuring a sustained and sustainable reduction of the country's deficit below 3% of GDP. The initial deadline for achieving this objective was 2013. The Commission extended the deadline to this end until 2015 due to unexpected economic downturns. The government seems to be a little aware, but don't do anything. We do not respect our own rules, such as the Constitution, nor do we respect our own promises, such as the commitments we send annually to Brussels. We lie to ourselves, we lie to Europe, and then we listen to ourselves go too far, too hard. Look, our financial picture is much worse than in a lot of developed European countries, so I think it's right that once we sober up, we get real, think deeply about where we are in different indices, and I think it's right that we're leading a more restrictive fiscal rule, because obviously we don't know how to follow those kinder measures. How are we going to follow some minor measures, but if we've been in violation of the Constitution in the field of fiscal rule for a year, nothing has happened to anyone? No minister has resigned, no Prime Minister has drowned the government, no official is guilty. On the other hand, when I listen to some of the debates of today's Members, I have to say that I have asked myself a few questions about whether we are in 2014 or maybe in 2005. However, I feel that some of you are still deep in the previous system or wish to return the previous system somehow through Slovenian politics and through the Slovenian economy to this country. I was just so old in 1990 that I began to realize how all the older ones spoke, we don't want to be part of Yugoslavia anymore because we want our fiscal rule because we want to be Switzerland and so on. But with the measures we are taking, or in this case with a measure we are not taking, we are increasingly putting this Yugoslavia back. I think that without this so-called Swiss formula, speaking about the fiscal rule is totally meaningless. This law of ours or the government that is preparing, without the Swiss rule, we have done nothing to regulate Slovenian finances. Nothing. Each government will be able to do some more of its own work, if it goes well, if it doesn't work out, we'll get a little bit of debt, but we'll close our eyes a little longer, and no one will answer. Once we wake up to the bankruptcy of the country in a few years, we will again, in typical Slovenian manner, hunt for who is to blame, which Prime Minister is to blame, which Prime Minister was not to blame, and the three left governments are apparently tossing themselves or sealing their eyes against the real situation. I must say that as of June this year, when I listened to how some new policy, new faces, would really expect colleagues, especially from Mir Cerar's party, to take on those pre-election words. I think that here you have mainly colleagues from the Mir Cerar Party, especially to you, for the others I know about how they worked in the past, and they will not change their position that we have an ideal opportunity here, with some real, sustainable system in fiscal rule, to make this law so operational and, above all, feasible. I quickly calculated, 36 SMC Members, 21 SDS, 5 colleagues from New Slovenia, I think we can get this majority right away, which we need to get in the National Assembly to adopt this fiscal rule. But the fiscal rule has to be such that it'll limit us a little. If we make this law such that it will not limit us to anything, we have only adopted another law, which, if we stick to it or do not stick to it, we have done nothing, and every new Prime Minister, every new finance minister will have an open garden to repay, with structural reforms remaining in words but perhaps in a drawer. When I was at that presentation in the State Council, when Mr. Finance Minister explained or tried to explain what their marriage was, and when I read our marriage, I regret to find that we have a number of conceptual solutions that are, I will say strictly, one on one gender and the other on the other. That, in fact, the concept is very different, there is also an article by Mr Šuštersič, former Minister of Finance, who I think is completely contrary to what this Minister of Finance advocates. In short, we have the feeling that at this two-thirds majority in the National Assembly we will still be very much hunting, and I have a feeling that in the end we will accept something if you get this two-thirds majority, which in a few pages of time. I have to say, when I listened to some of the listeners, especially from that direction across from me, I wondered a little bit about how some manage their domestic finances. I understand it's necessary to borrow from time to time, but sooner than later, someone has to pay you our debts. I hope someone doesn't have any magic wands, who wipes away their homemade poofs a little bit, and says, "Here's what's going on with me, and I don't even care." In short, a very irresponsible debate mainly in a paradigm of how we must preserve the social state. But, Your Honor, once the money runs out, how are we going to talk about the social state? Five years later, we adopt this fiscal rule, and we still have a social state, a national interest. And it costs us all to fall through all the indices of any comparisons offered to us compared to the developed world. When pensions run out when public sector wages are lost, when the economy is at an even lower point than now when more young craftsmen are gone, because they will tell us whether we have lost a little bit of money with this increase in taxes and new burdens, who will then take care of our social state? But, of course, the easiest thing to do is to change, push your head a little bit into the sand and move on with the concept, as long as it goes, it will go, and then there will probably come new faces that will tell you how they will change. Above all, I appeal to fellow Members of the Party Mir Cerar, who have had some very constructive debate today, that those pre-election words on transparent functioning, on a rational state, on the rule of law also begin to take place, but not to read the introductions of laws prepared by the Government, and on their proposal, perhaps even a request, to press the "for" or "against" button. If we do not sober up in 2015, the headache after sobering will be much worse in the coming years. I call for the rational functioning of all members of the National Assembly, in particular Members of the Peace Cerar Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mrs. Urska Ban, please, you have the floor. Get Mr. Luka Moon ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. Today we are discussing a fiscal rule, which means that it is simplified to say that this rule regulates economic policy during recessions and conjunctures, so that it does not increase public debt. This definition is certainly not a mechanism that, as has been said today, has a negative or harmful effect on the social or the economy. An important way to carry out this dictatorship and the framework in which this rule works is important. Nevertheless, we must be aware that no fiscal rule is sufficient for our successful fiscal consolidation, which we are in, will require other, more substantive, structural changes. Nevertheless, we are aware that the Constitution was amended in 2013 in order to ensure the long-term sustainability of our public financial system, taking into account international obligations. On this basis, it is essential, and we also support, the adoption of the implementing law. I would not agree that this law, as proposed by the Government, is loose, misplaced because it is prepared in accordance with the international commitments adopted and therefore constitutes a sharp and strict framework for the management of fiscal policy. Now we are not saying the opposite because this law that we are considering today has been proposed by the SDS, but, above all, from my point of view, a different concept of understanding the application of this article as enshrined in the Constitution. This government proposal, which has convinced me more – and I will not repeat what the predecessors have already said – allows greater flexibility for these and other governments in their work in budgeting and gives more room for anti-cyclical economic policy and allows gradual adaptation to the objectives we need to achieve. This government proposal understands the medium-term balance of income and expenditure at a level where the structural balance of the state sector is not lower than the structural deficit of 0.5% of GDP. It foresees a transitional period for the gradual resolution of our current structural deficit with appropriate dynamics, as an improvement of the structural balance every year by 0.5% of GDP. This means that the actual deficit in the state sector would be eliminated by 2019. Only this fiscal rule in the form of the Swiss formula, which is proposed in this law, would, in my opinion, require too extensive public consolidation immediately, which would have a strong negative impact on economic activity. The implementation of this formula, which is prescribed by this law, would cause a severe shock to the formulation of public financial policy as it would require a drastic reduction in public financial expenditure, which could then result in irreparable consequences for this stage of economic recovery where we are located. Why do we really disagree with this Swiss formula? Many arguments have already been made by his colleague Christmas. I think that a certain amount of public finances cannot be left to the mathematical formula alone, irrespective of the many factors affecting the state of public finances and our economic situation in the country. This limits our ability to manage anti-cyclical and anti-shock fiscal policies, as set out in the Pact's restrictions. We've already mentioned Switzerland today. I'd agree here, too. This formula has proved to be very appropriate for Switzerland. But there is also monetary policy, as I have already said today, in addition to fiscal policy, and our country has a common monetary policy as determined by the European Central Bank, so I believe that the proposed solutions provided for in this bill would overly limit fiscal policy as well as the only instrument we have for regulating economic activities in our country. Other provisions of the law are also somewhat different. This proposal proposed by the Government, which is proposed by the Group of Members and Members, also refers to other segments, the functioning of the correction mechanism, the definition of exceptional circumstances, in the preparation and monitoring of the implementation of the budgets of individual institutional units of the State sector. I say, my opinion here is that somehow, if this law is to be desired, and this is our desire to accept, we need to reach some consensus and I see a better basis in government law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Luka Moon, please. The word is yours. Get Mrs. Andreja Katič ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. I would like to start by reminding you of what we are listening to from the other side of the hall, that we are wasteful socialists, that we do not know how to manage our domestic finances, and that I would like to ask my colleague on the other side of the hall how you led this country from 2004-2008. Have you forgotten how Slovenian public debt was created, how you produced 10 billion deficits, how you led the second wave of privatisation, how the tycoons were created, how you, Mr Pogačnik, sat at the summit of the Court and sold state-owned companies, how you promoted pro-cyclical policies. I really want to know where those calls for fiscal sustainability, after fiscal consolidation, were at the time after macroeconomic imbalances were resolved. Fiscal imbalances and macroeconomic imbalances have never been greater in the history of this country than in these years. And secondly, now that you say that there is an urgent need to save, unless the social money is running out and I don't know what the crisis is going to be. See, in 2010 and 2011 Slovenia already had growth. With a little more progressive policies, she's already managed to dig a little bit out of the recession. But when your government arrived, by retagging the belt at the poorest with Zujf, you again caused a recession in 2012, which dragged on for the next two years and this year only a small country recovers again. And in 2015, you obviously forgot about your last term, you'd be doing the same thing again. You are now proposing the most regular fiscal rule in Europe, whereby Slovenia should save €700 billion next year. Please show me where we can get this money. Should we take him to Social Services? To the police? With the disabled? Who? You defended all these people two days ago in this hall. Please show where the country can take 700 billion euros at this time and then we can start talking about the fiscal rule you are proposing. At the same time, you cannot be for the poorest, for the police, for all who are affected by the cuts, but at the same time support such measures, which will bind us a little differently than constitutionally to non-human policies. And if I finish, you mention many times, including your colleagues from NSI, as a positive example of Latvia. See, Latvia was rescued by the IMF in 2009 with a special loan, never known for excessive indebtedness, but known for fiscal consolidation. And before we offer our citizens a Latvian model, I would like to tell you two facts about their success. The first is that, according to the Human Development Index, they are 48th in the world, this is for Croatia, while Slovenia is 25th in front of all the southern and eastern European countries, mainly due to policies before 2004, when Slovenia has been constantly catching up to more developed countries for 15 years. And secondly, perhaps this is not relevant to you, but it is for the people of Latvia. The population of Latvia decreased by 225 000 between 2005 and 2013. So 10% of the people have left this country because of the policies your party is proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u61	Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u63	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues! I am procedurally proposing that we all use the information and the data they hold together in this debate. I ask all my colleagues not to deceive or use false information. Luk Mesec stated that the government of Janez Janša produced a 10-billion-dollar deficit between 2004 and 2008. Where? For the first time in the history of Slovenia, the 2007 budget under the mandate of Janez Janša and, unfortunately, the late Dr. Bajuk, Finance Minister, ended with a surplus. And not fool around with 10 billion deficits. Not you, not anyone else. Dear Mr. Luka Mesec, read the Company Act. As an official agent, you must act in the best interests of society. And read the annual reports of the Slovenian Compensation Society for 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008. Dear President! I suggest you appeal to everyone here, colleagues and colleagues, not to be misled and not to give false information. Ten billion deficits, but actually for the first time, the surplus was done.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u64	Thank you very much. That would, of course, require too much intervention from me. Here you go, Mr. Gorenak, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u65	In terms of replica, yes. Mr. Moon comes once a month and spends a month of stupidity. We're gonna have to go to school a little longer, but not to Mr. Križanič. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u66	This is not procedural. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u67	Because Mr. Križanič is doing the same thing as Mr. Moon. [[…]] Once again, I would like to say more plasticly for the sake of the people what Mr Pogačnik has actually said. The debt generated by the budget has an influence on this debt or surplus by the government. And the government of Janez Janša in 2004-2008 made a positive. We had a plus in 2008, which you also confirmed here in the National Assembly. But if households are in debt, if Mr. Mesec buys a bicycle or a car on credit, it is not the blood of John Janša and his government, but it is a thing that the government has no influence on. And don't waste your ten billion-dollar nonsense because that's not true. We had a surplus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Mr. Gorenak had the right to a replica because he was a debater. Mrs Andreja Katič, please prepare yourself for Mr Mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u69	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I remember that in 2008 they warned the government that the crisis was coming. According to the measures they've taken, they didn't want to hear it. They have adopted measures that have reduced revenues to the state budget. That's what Dr. Krizanic was talking about today. Let's not underestimate people's memories. It's true, there were people first in the Pahor government. That is also why it helped our economy, such as our biggest exporter, Gorenje. To keep jobs. The President of the Gorenje administration also gives this recognition. And I could list other companies. We're here today where we are. We should join forces to take this path of economic growth, which is already emerging today, forward. We supported your amendment yesterday because it was good. At the presentation of the position of the Social Democrats Group on the 2013 annual report of the Ombudsman, I stressed that we share responsibility and concern for the state's public finances in our group, but we are primarily interested in the fate of the people. In this light, I am also judging the proposal for this fiscal rule law. Does the implementation of the fiscal rule, as set out in the text of this law, guarantee a social state? The answer is simple. No, no, no. The fiscal rule in this law does not guarantee that. More. If necessary, the social state would be sacrificed on the altar of new austerity requirements. I am confident that excessive savings will not contribute to the development of the economy and to our better common tomorrow. Well, not just that. At the same time, the proposal commits the hands of the authorities on a case-by-case basis to reach out to policies that provide economic growth and create new jobs. It insists on strict austerity, which has already been recognised as a survivor by its biggest advocates, such as the International Monetary Fund and the European Commission. The assumption of strict public financial savings should therefore be exceeded, the scale of the economy with other admissions encouraged, the effective collection of existing duties, the simplification of the country, the debirocratisation of procedures, and the excess of financial convulsions. The debate on the achievement of a long-term stable economic policy should also include institutions whose perspective extends beyond the raw numbers. Given that the proposal for a text before us does not have the necessary majority, we are directing our powers and expectations of the Social Democrats into a government proposal. As already mentioned in the position of the Group of Social Democrats, we are assessing the proposal for the composition of the Fiscal Council to be complemented by a member proposed by a political independent institution such as the Ombudsman. An institution that not only enjoys a high degree of trust between citizens and citizens, but also provides by law for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in relation to public authorities, local self-government authorities and public decision-makers. As an additional argument to this, I also point out that the Ombudsman's annual reports show that the level of respect for human rights depends largely on the State's public financial policy. As a painful warning to the guardian, the tooth crisis grinds on the most vulnerable and socially excluded. And that is why we believe that we should also include a representative from the Ombudsman in the process of our further economy and proposing financial expertise, and thus make a clear commitment to the policy, so that it will first and foremost recognize the fate of people in the public financial crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Marko Pogačnik, please. Then it's Dr. Dusan Marble's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u71	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I think that the Slovenian Democratic Party has made a number of arguments today, for which it would be reasonable to support our proposal for a fiscal rule, particularly in this first reading. The fact is, Slovenia has been in an unconstitutional position for more than a year. Two governments are responsible: the government of Alenka Bratušek and the current government of Mir Cerar. We estimate that our proposal is going in a direction where respect for the Constitution is needed. I think it is necessary for all those who do not believe our arguments to read once again Article 148 of the Constitution, which clearly states that, under the influence of fiscal rules, the 2015 budget rebalance should already be established. There has been a lot of talk about the so-called Swiss formula, but in the Slovenian Democratic Party we assess that an anchor must have this implementing law. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have always advocated a balanced budget and a consolidation of public finances, which does not mean that we are only for a austerity policy, but, above all, we are for the part that with some measures to enable the development of the economy, we are doing something on the income side to improve the competitive situation. However, with the policy of the former government and the current government based on the policy of additional debt and additional tax burdens, we will not get to these things. Without a fiscal rule, without some anchor, without some formula, I don't think there's any point in this law being enforced. We are not now enforcing this law because we want to meet just some constitutional criteria, but mainly because I am in favor of Slovenia. And respectable, Your Honor! Citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia must be in the interest of adopting a fiscal rule with a formula and an anchor. Regardless of what I mentioned earlier, whether she will be left or middle or right government, the Republic of Slovenia will be protected from headless indebtedness and indebtedness of generations. We are paying more than 1.1 billion interest today, probably at 8 billion euros in revenue. What else is likely to happen to these interest rates is likely to be more said by the finance minister Dr. Marble. In the last period, Slovenia was in debt on the US dollar market, forecasts are that the dollar will rise compared to the euro by the end of the year – and what will be the consequences? I think that these extremely high interest rates will come and that this debt policy will not lead anywhere. On the other hand, if you do not believe, the coalition Members and Members, the SDS and the same Finance Minister Dr. Marble, I recommend that tomorrow, when the vote is to read an article from Mr Petrovic's First Vice-President of the Court of Auditors during this interim period. If you don't believe us, read his article. He also notes that your proposal for a fiscal rule is flawed and has no content. If you don't believe us, read an article written by the First Vice-President of the Court of Auditors. And let us put something in our heads: fiscal rule and implementing law are not adopted because of Brussels, but because of Slovenia! That we don't have a government, or a left, or a middle, or a right, which will delegate this country and five generations more. If we continue with this trend of debt policy, we will no longer be able to pay interest in a relatively short period of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Dr. Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, please. Let's get the mags ready. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u73	Your Honor! Allow me to present the Government's opinion in even more detail. The key reason that we do not favour the law before you is that the proposal for a fiscal rule law goes beyond the requirements arising from the already strict rules of the European Union on fiscal policy, and then I will explain it a little bit more in the end. If I go after individual elements of the law now, first I turn to Article 5, where a fiscal rule is laid down in the form of a so-called Swiss formula. This assumes a fixed structural balance of the state sector. This rule is more rigid and strict compared to the fiscal pact, as the fiscal pact allows the establishment of a medium-term fiscal target in a range that is not limited up and down with a structural deficit of 0.5 %. So the fluctuation of the structural deficit between 0, -0.5 and upwards could be unlimited. The use of the Swiss formula therefore severely restricts the use of countercyclical fiscal policy. While such a fiscal rule is very successfully applied in Switzerland, we have already talked about it quite a lot, but it is a country with its own monetary policy that can be used to manage shocks and also countercyclical. The Member States of the European Union using the common currency do not have the option of using monetary policy, so the European Union's public financial rules allow for more flexibility in the application of fiscal policy. Article 9 – definition of exceptional circumstances. The proposal allows for a derogation from the principle of medium-term balance during a period of serious economic decline, or in the case of natural and other accidents, or in other unforeseen events which cannot be affected if these events have significant consequences for the financial situation of the State sector. This provision is not problematic and is also in line with European rules. However, it continues to be more restrictive than European rules. The period of significant economic deterioration is defined as a real economic downturn in a given year or two consecutive years, totalling more than 3 per cent. It is therefore a much stricter definition of the deterioration of the economic situation than laid down in European Union law, which in such cases allows for economic assessment. As a deterioration of the economic situation, compliance with the fiscal pact can also be taken into account for a longer period of low economic growth. Correction mechanism, that's Article 11. The draft law provides for a corrective mechanism in the event of a derogation from the medium-term balance due to natural and other disasters and other unforeseen events or after a serious economic downturn, i.e. before these exceptional circumstances cease. The International Treaty, on the other hand, provides for the initiation of a correction mechanism if there is a derogation that is not due to exceptional circumstances. In the event of exceptional circumstances, it is therefore not necessary to initiate the correction mechanism, but it must be triggered when exceptional circumstances have ceased if exceptional circumstances have led to a derogation from the fiscal rule. At the same time, the fiscal pact does not require that the legislation itself lays down measures that will automatically enter into force if there is a derogation. It merely lays down that a procedure should be laid down to put in place measures to address medium-term imbalances. The provision on the automatic reduction of all rights partially or fully financed by the State budget is therefore unnecessary in the light of these requirements of the European Pact and is, in the light of the interference with acquired rights, as we have found, unconstitutional – in consultation with lawyers. So far, it has been said that the proposed solutions in the proposal for a fiscal rule law almost completely limit the use of fiscal policy as an instrument for regulating economic activity in the country, and the common monetary policy set by the European Central Bank has an extremely negative impact on the economy. In addition, we have some other concerns. That's what you're saying. That's a conceptual difference. With regard to the second paragraph of Article 7 and Article 14(1), the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the way in which the implementation of the budget on individual institutional units of the State would be prepared and monitored would make more sense to regulate in an integrated manner in the Public Finance Act. These provisions, in the opinion of the Government, are not necessarily necessary for the implementation of the fiscal rule law alone and are, in our opinion, excessive. With regard to Article 6 and Article 13, paragraph 1, relating to the consumption of revenue surpluses over expenditure of individual institutional units of the State sector, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that surpluses should primarily be intended for the repayment of principals of the debt of those units. This reduces expenditure in the coming years due to lower interest costs. In addition, for surpluses intended to cover deficits in times of exceptional circumstances or sub-potential growth in the coming years, if they are not collected in separate accounts, a trail will be lost. So it has to be a separate account. With regard to the second paragraph of Article 13, the Government considers that it is not appropriate to regulate the issue of purchases from the State's financial assets in this law. The law does not address the issue of State debt in general, but it is essential to limit the fiscal rule to the State's medium-term debt for current consumption. This means that the rule prevents debt at the time of economic expansion, as it requires surpluses to be created at that time. On the other hand, deficits and debt may occur during the recession. The structural balance should normally remain at the same level throughout the whole period. With regard to Article 8 concerning the Fiscal Council, however, the Government considers that, due to the important role that this independent and independent State authority will play in monitoring the implementation of the rules, it is more appropriate that this action be determined at least more precisely within the framework of the implementing law on the fiscal rule. These are the other parts that are not as conceptual as technically possible. Finally, I would like to point out once again that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposal for a fiscal rule law that is currently under discussion, not because the law would not be necessary or for any other political reason. As a key reason, as I have mentioned many times before, the restriction on flexibility in the application of fiscal policy compared to international obligations is. This would, of course, reduce, and there is no doubt about it. You have all the research you want. This would reduce economic growth and employment and have a negative impact on everything that depends on it and, as you know, the whole country depends on it. In short, the Swiss formula is inappropriate. According to our information, there is no country in the EU. The European Stability Pact is already extremely restrictive and is therefore the subject of many discussions and here is a big question in Europe, whether I am at all appropriate, especially given the difference in growth between the US, which rejected it as inappropriate, but have its monetary policy, where growth is now around 4% of gross domestic product, and in the EU, where growth is now around 0.8%. For Germany, for example, the Swiss formula would be much more appropriate than for Slovenia. Also, the European Stability Pact, which I have said is very restrictive, is much more appropriate for Germany than for Slovenia, which is exposed to much higher shocks than a small, very open economy and for which the ECB's monetary policy is much less appropriate than for Germany. The ECB's monetary policy is essentially focused on the economic situation in Germany and in other major euro area countries, but not on Slovenia. However, Germany does not have stricter rules than these European rules, and it did not allow European rules to be adopted to be more binding, which it could afford, but Slovenia cannot afford. I think these are the basic reasons why we should find here in Parliament a solution to the fiscal rule law, which actually addresses these arguments and these needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Shircelj, proposer. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Following this explanation by Minister Marble concerning the fiscal rule law, I may be even more concerned about fiscal policy than I am about this law and the fate of this law, especially because I believe on the basis of the statement that fiscal policy will also be based on debt in the future. As a result of not adapting the expenditure to revenue, of course, there is greater debt and indeed greater dependence on international markets and, of course, greater interest payments. Now this is going this way. Many experts are talking about the need to have a certain anchor and the Swiss formula gives this anchor on the expenditure side. Your law states that this is determined by the government in cooperation with Parliament. And never will any government and Parliament or the National Assembly be over-emphasized to limit certain expenditure, especially if this is not necessary. Now whether this formula is also appropriate for other countries or not, however, the fiscal pact provides a certain framework on which all European Union countries adopt their legislation. We believe that certain anchors actually need to be put into this law too, because there will not be much going on in the area of fiscal policy. I do not think that anti-cyclical policy will be pursued in the way it may be known in theory and as it may be advocated – we will see what anti-cyclical policy will be in the 2015 budget or when the 2015 budget is changed. This is of great interest to me, and I also want to know how expenditure will be adjusted there to the deficit, which must actually be, because the fact is that real numbers are something other than a theory in this context. So I still believe that anchor should be, and there is also a time frame in which this must actually happen. About the fiscal world. Look, we're allowing the possibility of writing more about the fiscal world. In one of the draft laws, more was written about this. This is what you have in the Public Finance Act – a fiscal world that does not work. The Minister of Finance is the one who has appointed the members of the fiscal council, which could already work, under the Public Finance Act, it is so that members are appointed by the Minister of Finance or on a proposal from the Minister then perhaps by the Government; however, he is the one who can actually provide these matters in the country for the fiscal council to work because we have it. Article 13 and debt. Yes, of course, Article 13 provides for the possibility for money to be spent on the sale of public debt in order to reduce this public debt as soon as possible or to reduce it to 45 % of the gross social product. After all, Europe commits us to reducing this public debt to 60% of the gross social product, otherwise we will pay the fines. But now, however, we are probably better off running Europe's economic policy than we would have our own. I hope we agree on this, at least, even though I have seen a lot of criticism about this role of the European Central Bank, the monetary policy of the country and so on; in short, to whom something has been adapted. I hope that the Minister does not advocate any monetary policy of his own, universal one, as we may have had in another country, which meant something else entirely. I'd say the following about the content of the law. This is not about the fact that the Slovenian Democratic Party will now be the one to bear all the good in this law or all the bad. It is essentially that we need the fiscal rule law on the basis of the constitution. Once again, it is a matter of not allowing the state to be in an unconstitutional state, and it has been for quite some time, for almost a year. We allow the possibility of the provisions being amended by amendments. I think that the structure of the law is exactly the same as the government, after all, it was prepared by the same people, even at the Ministry of Finance, at the time of the drafting of this law, the same people as today were with different solutions. I don't mean the Minister here, I mean the Secretary of State, who was also preparing this law at the time. Thus, this structure of the law is exactly the same, since our law has several more provisions, as has already been said, regarding debt and rescue, because we think that even with respect to debt, the Government must be indebted in the law and give some resources to actually reduce that debt. Here, Minister, we are not comparable to the United States of America, where they do not need a fiscal rule because they have a different currency because the burden of the debt is passed on to others if you want, countries, nations and so on, to pay their interest and they can do so because they have a'so-called global currency' which was sometimes different than it is now – I think you know very much about it – and their debt is completely different and there is no comparison here. Of course, it must be said that this comparison is not in place or needs to be further explained. In view of the fact that some of the debaters went a little back in history and historically pointed out where the main errors were and so on. Among other things, there has been a constant reference to tax reform or tax changes in 2006, 2007 and then 2012 where there was no tax reform, only the rate of taxes on income has decreased slightly. Here it must be said that a simple mathematical calculation, that you keep the same rates on the same grounds as before, do not give such a financial account and these 900 million or 800 million, however, actually based on such a method – simply not possible. It is not possible to calculate this and it is not easy to talk about this, but it is constantly repeated. Even as colleague Katič said, this law will mean – that it will not guarantee the social welfare of the state – ladies and gentlemen, that is not true! And that means more saving! Let's get our ideas straight. You save when you have too much money you don't spend. You spend more than what you created when you usually owe yourself and spend more money on that basis. So it's easy to change the terminology that we're talking about. We need to look at what saving is. You can't save if you don't have, you just spend less, that's the difference. And you can't spend all the time at the expense of future generations! It's basically here because it's happening from day to day, from hour to hour, and it's going to save more. Nothing will be saved, it will be spent less. This is no longer about saving, but it's about less spending. And that's the main difference. If we had the money saved, then we probably wouldn't need the fiscal rule law, because you'd just be spending what we're actually creating. In fact, I would also like to draw particular attention here to the sentences of Comrade Tilna Christmas, who says, "Wait until we get off the clouds and see how hard the landing will be." I think he probably has more information than I do, and that we will probably see at the 2015 budget how hard the landing will actually be. Here I would like to tell him that in fact this law does not go beyond the fiscal pact. Nor does the constitutional provision run counter to the fiscal pact, since the fiscal pact allows for a maximum. It doesn't say 0.5, but up to 0.5% can be deficits. That is also the case with our constitution in line with the fiscal act, since it is already here also blurring that these are two different matters. That's just not true! Not that I'm looking forward to it, but I'm expecting this landing. Whether it's hard or soft, we'll see. This is probably also dependent on the Minister of Finance and the government. However, I would appeal, of course, to the fact that this is the first consideration and that solutions are possible in the following cases and there is also an appropriate law that is likely to be for everyone to enjoy and accept.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mr. Tillen Christmas was named, please, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u77	Thank you for your word. Just about what you said, I said, "Wait till we get off the clouds..." I don't think I said that; what I said and what I meant was that because I started hinting at the history that in the past it was actually wasted beyond ability and so on, only when we came to the National Assembly did we somehow see how serious the situation is – at least our parliamentary group. In this respect, I believe that the Minister of Finance has informed us well or explained to us when we were discussing the balance sheet for the 2014 budget. And my words went this way, that actually what was before was the clouds, now we've seen where the soil is and on these floors we have to land. However, at least I personally advocate a slightly softer landing, as I said, because this soft landing applies not only to us here in the National Assembly, but to the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. That's it, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Dr Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u79	Allow me because I have the feeling that there is still somehow in the air, as if we are advocating some rules that are unlimited and very general and are giving the opportunity then to the Government and the National Assembly to make their choice. I have to say, that's not true. Of course, as a finance minister, let's say back then in 2002 to 2004, when we had a monetary policy, I would very much like to have a Swiss formula and that would still work. Today, however, the situation is different because we do not have this monetary policy. Just to really explain what the fiscal pact actually determines how restrictive a fiscal pact actually is. First of all, the fiscal pact stipulates that in the medium term you can have a maximum of -0.5; that is 0.5 structural deficits. We've narrowed it down, and we said no, we can't have negative 0.5, we have to have 0, because that's what we wrote in the constitution. This is a given fact, we must come from this. So our structural deficit for the medium term is 0. Now it is only a question of how much, when the economy is going badly, we fiscally support the economy, how much of this countercyclical activity we have in bad times and how countercyclical we have when we are doing well; how much we have to save for bad times within this medium-term period. And here the limits in the fiscal pact are smaller than those in the Swiss formula. You can go within this period to -0.5 after the fiscal pact and up to +0.5 or more – within the medium term – but you have to be at 0 for the whole period. The Swiss formula does not allow you to go to -0.5 and to +0.5, which is a greater limit than in the fiscal pact. Given that we are a country that has more fluctuations because we are smaller, more open, more fluctuations than Germany and large countries, we need a more pronounced anti-cyclical policy at a time when we are doing well or when we are doing badly. Therefore, I say that this policy, this formula, the Swiss formula, is not appropriate for this time, and it is better just to stick to the fiscal pact. It is said that this is a so-called anti-cyclical policy that allows you to be more lenient in these changes in macroeconomic conditions. The other thing is, how can you react to shocks? These are the one-off effects that happen, and once again the fiscal pact sets out these softer ones, as set out in this law that we are discussing today. We have more options in the fiscal pact to act against shock than the restrictions that are in here. There are two conceptual differences, but what I would like to stress is that the fiscal pact itself is extremely restrictive. Just a little more space up and down gives you like a Swiss formula. I think this is more appropriate for Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u80	Thank you very much. You've got your word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. If they also wish to discuss the representative of the proposer and the representative of the Government, they are in the same position only if they raise their hands. But the MPs, please, for the applications. Each member shall have five minutes. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u81	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Secretary of State! I would like to look a little further into 2015 – what will be the economic trends, what will be the revenue of the state budget? I was in a short debate earlier because I was running out of time, I told you where the reasons for this year's economic growth were or, if you want, for Slovenia's exit from the recession. I'm happy the statistics show we're out of recession. But I wonder, colleagues and colleagues, what our people have to do with this today. It is true that it is some hysterical curve, some delay, but at this moment our people are not feeling this exit from recession or economic growth. I wonder if they will feel it in 2015 or 2016. Why is this question relevant? This issue is relevant because our export markets, particularly German, record cooling, and this is a problem. We also know that it was this year that the local communities made major investments at local level, probably also due to the mayoral elections. There will be no second year of mayoral elections. The financial perspective, however, started this year. Our projects will begin, mainly cohesion, unfortunately, only at the end of 2015, because the operational programme is not yet approved by the European Union. In doing so, of course, we must not overlook the mid-term angle. Slovenia is still at a turning point, in some paradoxical situation, when we, as it were, emerged from the crisis – we came out of recession, pardon – and we are still deep in the crisis. Despite this year's growth, GDP per capita is real by 7 and a half percent below the pre-crisis level, this year in 2008. And this year, we have gained back very little in the economy from the more than 90 thousand jobs that we lost after 2008. Here I would like, unfortunately, not to appear culturally, somehow objecting to my fellow moon – I say it will probably not be cultural because it is not here, but a magnetogram will be able to read. I think we must be particularly truthful here in this assembly. We can't waste the untruths. I'm really trying to pick the word "untruths," I could pick another word, and I'm trying, you know, also because it's an advent time, and this is a time when somehow we're people kind of closer to each other. Not so misleading the Slovenian public, which expects solutions from us, but not the untruths. It is necessary to separate what is, because Mr Mesec spoke of the 10 billionth deficit in the state budget – it was understood. That's how it was understood. I mean, that's what colleague Pogačnik understood. We need to distinguish what the state budget is, what is the surplus of the state budget, what is the deficit and what is the country's gross external debt. I think that's what my fellow moon wanted to say, but he got it all mixed up, and then the public is confused. Indeed, in 2007-2008 we recorded, say, a balanced budget. This was the first Janša government to lead the Ministry of Finance, unfortunately the late Dr Andrej Bajuk – I think also the European Minister of Finance in 2006. Here I will continue in our integration, in our cooperation. Look, if the government coalition is going to throw this bill away, there will be no way that we might make a mix of this law, which we have discussed qualitatively today – I am pleased with the quality of the debate, except for what I mentioned and perhaps a government proposal – and that we would then make a good product together; good for the country, good for our people. However, many efforts were made in the previous term when we negotiated and came very far. Unfortunately, the government fell and the law fell. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u83	Thank you, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Today, I would expect the proposal for a fiscal rule law to be tabled by the Government and to discuss a government proposal today. That would be true and expected of the government. It is true, however, that the government of Mira Cerar has been in government for six months and that this government has not even begun to work seriously. And that's true. This has already been determined by their own coalition Members who are calling on their government or not to say that they are almost asking, let us start working once. At the same time, I seriously wonder whether the Mira Cerar government wants to regulate or does not want the financial stability of our country. Or are they dominated in our country by those who respond to this disorder, who wish that there is no order in our country that wants to rule anarchy, etc.? This is a serious question, and this question is implied to me by the fact that the Government of Mira Cerar is in violation of the Constitution. Now, let's think about it a little bit here, that is, the highest authority in the country, the government, doesn't respect the constitution. He doesn't respect the Constitution! On the other hand, this government or any government should require all other order, respect, honesty, etc. Yes, there is always a need to look at itself first, and this is the first step towards violating the Constitution, because the proposal for a fiscal rule law is just a guarantee, a framework that provides for the financial stability of our country in the future. We have heard in the debate today that this proposal for a law drafted by the opposition party is the Slovenian Democratic Party that it is poison. I very much agree with this conclusion. This bill is indeed a poison for all to come, and future governments that will have to regulate the balance of public finances in the financial field are toxic to these governments because they will have to do order and justice in the country. On the other hand, I'd say poison for all those robbers, the tycoons who have largely robbed our country. The following is also poison for our judiciary, which will have to be more efficient and more operational and up-to-date and successfully prosecute those who have wronged or stolen or cheated or financially carried out large amounts of funds to foreign oasis countries. Yes, there is poison for them too, because Slovenia does not need such a judiciary. The inefficient judiciary of Slovenia does not need! The fiscal rule is a very broad concept. You can actually see here – I would understand if all the funds that are large for our country were to be spent on investments or other investments that would make a return on capital and a return on some percentage more than we owe ourselves. Then I'd understand. But I don't understand that this whole debt, this money we're borrowing, we're spending exclusively on our own. Let us spend exclusively on this public sector, which is known to be a large electoral mass, but the result is elections at [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Dr. Franz Cross, please. You have a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u85	President of the High Council! I would like to add some information to my previous discussion and also respond to some of the opinions expressed here. First time. Of course, saving at household level is one thing; saving at macroeconomic level is another. Even at the level of the household or farm economy, Cato, an old Roman speaker and thinker, said that the master must produce more than consumption and if they hold the stock, he would be rich. These stocks are important. But it's macroeconomically different. But the macroeconomic thing is, if you're saving and it's still not accumulating and it's not spending on investments, then you lost it. And ZUJF is a typical example of a missing macroeconomic savings that caused a double-bottom crisis in Slovenia. However, the hysteria caused by parallel and stigmatised Slovenian banks and the institution of a bad bank with private credit inflows to public debt has caused the debt to now rise to 30 billion. Let me read you a few digits, because of course time allows me. The common obligations of all of Slovenia's economies, countries, banks and the like were at the end of the mandate in which Mr Maramor was Finance Minister, 15 billion and 300 million euros. 2008 reached €39 billion, with an increase of €24 billion in between. These debts were largely short-term, they started to collapse very quickly and when the foreign demanded money quickly back and when the banks hesitated, the state could not have entered as a depositor: it itself borrowed and deposited this money. Therefore, the debt increased considerably, quite well, over the public financial deficit. Mr. Žnidar, here you have it as a replica: the public sector did not create this debt. It was created by private debts, which were taken arbitrarily, counting that after ten years they could be paid, it was necessary to pay back after a year and a half. Someone went to build a factory, and after a year, they told him to bring it back. Of course he couldn't! And stigmatisation – first of all the banks that they are incapable of, if they have gone into this relationship, something has already been done, but not in this way, because they have been secured with appropriate assets, and secondly, the public sector – is unproductive. Then, of course, when the base is reduced at rates, the tide also decreases. That's exactly what the computer is – not on the same basis. When the base fell, the tides fell and, therefore, the 2007 tax reform and the reduction of tax rates or small tax reform, as we call it, 2012 resulted in a significant increase in the structural public financial deficit, which is being addressed by the fiscal rule. And now those who demand a fiscal rule have made such a fiscal rule — the only thing that is good, and it is always good to say, is that they have made a mistake. I don't know what kind of blindness in 2007, but the mistake was more understandable. In 2012, all economists of all economic schools — liberal, ortho liberal, orto neoliberal — told you not to lower the tax rates on corporate incomes so that you would only worsen public balance and increase aggregate demand, which would then have to be done. And then this was resolved by raising VAT, raising excise duties, and a few more measures will have to be taken to remedy this – this is a structural deficit. However, it is not the structural public financial deficit that causes such a crisis that someone is afraid of falling to too much soil and so on. It is only necessary to take appropriate measures and to remedy the matter. Secondly, the common government debt of the budget or of Slovenia’s public consolidated debt – this is a debt to foreign or domestic sectors, regardless of who. At the end of 2008, it was 7 billion 200 and increased to 15 200 by the end of the Pahor government. Of this, EUR 3 billion in deposits were new due to the defence of the economy, and the remaining was due to a deficit which was not remediable during the recession by raising tax rates immediately. At that time, it was 40% of GDP, and it did not look like a problem, and then with the DUTB, with the bad bank and with the stigmatisation of the banking system, the banking system now lends only another 12 billion euros to the economy, and the public debt rose to the 30 billion that the finance minister was talking about on Monday to my question. So much for the data.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Closing the debate [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] There is no replica in the context of an additional debate under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. [[advertising from the hall]] So, I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, tomorrow in the framework of the votes. I'm breaking the 9th point of the agenda. [[advertising from the hall]] Here you go. Procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u87	Mr Vice-President-in-Office, I would like you to hold a meeting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and, of course, I have the opportunity to speak with a raise of hands. That's what you mentioned. You're not gonna let me do this right now, so please give me your word. In the beginning, you said that the Minister or Government and the proposer could sign up with a raise of hands. Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u88	And my colleague and I did not notice that we would raise our hand, Master – when the applications were made, when the time was divided. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on Working Dimensions. The draft law was tabled by a group of eighteen Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of nineteen Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Mr Andre Couch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u89	Presidents, representatives of ministers, colleagues and colleagues, nice greetings! We have been monitoring the issue of volunteer traineeships in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group for some time. In recent times, however, we have been able to understand in the media and also in contact with the field that the problem is growing. As we believe that the exploitation of young people, which can be extended to the future, we have decided in the Parliamentary Joint SDS to invest in the legislative process of amending and supplementing the Labour Relations Act. By means of a proposal for a law, we delete the legal basis for volunteering in the Labour Relations Act and in other laws and replace it with a system-wide measure that all employers who employ a trainee are exempt from paying contributions to this employment. We are committed to stimulating the employment of trainees in the private sector as well as to ensuring that all trainees, without exception, have a contract of employment and all the rights set out in the contract of employment and are considered to do so during working and insurance periods. This stimulates the employment of young people immediately after completion of schooling and enables young people to move rapidly into a working relationship. It applies to both the private and public sectors. The measure so far to exempt employers from the payment of contributions for the employment of a person under 30 years of age is extended to all traineeships for the duration of the traineeship who are employed after completion of the schooling. The aim of this measure is to stimulate employers in both the private and public sectors for the employment of trainees. The measure itself has positive financial effects, so we do not introduce any additional costs. More importantly, in the law we propose the obligation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt a policy for the implementation of traineeships in which it will define co-financing and funding for those traineeships where this is necessary so that the total number of traineeships, despite the ban on volunteer traineeships, will not be reduced but even increased – especially in the private sector. With the statutory task and the commitment of the Government to adopt measures and strategy for the implementation of traineeships, the issue of traineeships and its solution will also be systematically addressed and will not be subject to empty promises or temporary measures alone. We propose that our systemic measure, in view of the prohibition of retroactivity, should not be applied to already concluded voluntary traineeship contracts, but to any subsequent conclusion of traineeship contracts following the entry into force of the amendment to the Labour Relations Act. On 11 December, the Government itself adopted at its regular meeting on 11 December this year that the public sector will no longer enter into voluntary traineeship arrangements and that the Government does not support volunteer traineeships, but has not adopted any timetables when these measures will be adopted. Again, we regret many words and struggle with little action. We stand for the principle: each work counts. Thus, all trainees, in addition to the minimum wage prescribed in the law, will have paid other contributions. This will enable young people to enter the labour market more easily and more quickly and to gain work experience for a further job, as all employers will be more stimulated to hire trainees who would otherwise wait several months or, unfortunately, as is the case in practice, even for a few years at the Employment Institute. At the same time, of course, it seems very important that each traineeship will also be counted during the working time. We therefore believe that young people will also be more competitive in the labour market. During the last period, many Members and Members of the various parties, regardless of coalition, opposition, spoke about how it was necessary to listen to the young generation and enable them to have a decent future. There was also an urgent meeting of the Committee on Education on the topic of non-implementation of the national youth programme, where, I can say, three-quarters of the time was spent talking mainly about the issue of volunteer traineeships. Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest we move from words to actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u90	Thank you. For an introductory explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities for Dejan Levanič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u91	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia discussed the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Labour Relations Act at its meeting on 11 December this year, together with information on the state of volunteer traineeships in the public sector, i.e. what is happening today, which we have prepared at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. On the basis of the proposed law, the Government has also decided to give a negative opinion on this proposal of the law, mainly due to the way in which volunteers are dealt with. Let's see why. Volunteer trainees, we need to know, are governed by sectoral laws, that is, other laws, which also lay down the obligation to train in a particular field. The Labour Relations Act, whose change is now on the table, regulates working relationships and on volunteer traineeships provides only that those exercising it grant certain rights. Prior to the amendment in 2013, the Labour Relations Act already had certain provisions which it contained in relation to volunteer traineeships. We are talking about the duration and implementation of traineeships, restrictions on working time, breaks, rests, compensation responsibility, ensuring safety and health at work in accordance with these rules, including the prohibition of discrimination and equal treatment in relation to sex, as well as provisions on the special protection of workers who have not yet reached the age of 18. In 2013, on the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party, New Slovenia and the Slovenian People's Party, an amendment to the Labour Relations Act was tabled at the time, in coordination with all political parties and also the social partners – it is right that when amendments to the Labour Relations Act are submitted, we should try to harmonise them as much as possible – and in addition, the Labour Relations Act added the right to lunch and transport. Therefore, he did not foresee volunteer traineeships because the Labour Relations Act does not refer to volunteer traineeships, but, given that there is volunteer traineeship in other field laws, he has laid down those basic rights in this law. Although some rights are recognised in the Labour Relations Act, we are pleased that the opinion has finally prevailed, given that there has been a lot of public debate, that volunteer traineeships should simply be paid for traineeships. It is therefore necessary for each ministry to look at where the traineeship is even mandatory in its sectoral laws, to determine the number of trainees it needs in view of the education system and the needs of the labour market and to provide them with an adequate payment. It is very simple; it is about the Law on Public Servants, the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education, the Law on Legal Examination, the Law on Medical Services and the Law on Health Activities. It is precisely why, through the Law on working relations overnight, changing matters in the field of volunteering or traineeships in general, the issue of deregulation of professions, everything with a view to making this effort possible for young people to move quickly to the labour market and, of course, the possibility of co-financing certain traineeships when it comes to first-time job seekers. Here will also be a debate on how to help young people get a certain job as quickly as possible and if we adopt a proposal from the Slovenian Democratic Party to exempt employers from paying their contributions, if they hire trainees, then we would re-encourage the additional problem that we already have in society. Today it comes to us with independent entrepreneurs, then anyone who gets a job would be a trainee, not what we want to achieve: we want to achieve employment for an indefinite time and we also subsidise it. Although the solution proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party is not systemic and at least what needs to be done or is right, the amendments to the Labour Relations Act should be informed by the social partners and at least coordinated by certain shortcomings or certain solutions. But it is the purpose, and we must be right here, and the purpose of the bill is to – and this is the abolition of volunteer traineeships, which today do not get paid for their work and that is not right. That is why the Government has accepted that it does not support volunteer traineeships, imposed on the ministries to amend sectoral legislation and provide us with adequate salaries and through the co-ordinators, i.e. the Ministry of Labour, and through the possibility of co-financing also through European funds, to prepare programmes in the following year that will also allow the financing of traineeships. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u92	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Primož Hainz is speaking. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u93	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Volunteer traineeship is not a single and unique concept. We distinguish between a volunteer traineeship where an apprentice does the same work as an employee, except that he does not receive payment for the work done, and a volunteer traineeship where training of an apprentice is concerned, where it is only a minimum contribution to the employer's greater performance. A typical example of such traineeships is volunteer judicial training, which is a necessary condition for the conduct of a judicial examination. However, it is more correct than the exception in these trainees that employees are already elsewhere and are paid to work with their employer and are only a few hours per week familiar with the substantive work of the court. It is precisely in this traineeship, whether voluntary or paid, which can also be carried out with lawyers, that it is also a practice to detect the most abuse of trainees, which tends us to say without reservation that such a traineeship is a modern form of slave labor. Ingenuity in this area is immeasurable. According to our assessment, the educational system must play a key role in correcting irregularities in order to ensure that, in the course of the education process, there are sufficient practical training programmes to ensure the possibility of carrying out any professional examinations that are a condition for the self-sustainment of a particular profession. In the coalition agreement on youth, the coalition partners of this government set out in the section on young people the task of establishing a voucher system for the implementation of compulsory traineeships and practices through which students and students will be given a greater choice to carry out these. We also agreed that unpaid practices and traineeships in areas where legislation provides for compulsory traineeships and practices are not admissible. At the meeting of the Government on 11 December, the Government took a concrete approach to implementing these coalition commitments and adopted several decisions: a decision prohibiting the conclusion of contracts for unpaid volunteering; a decision imposing on the competent departments of the field to prepare, in accordance with a short period of time, amendments to the sectoral laws allowing voluntary traineeships, considering the necessity of compulsory self-employment training; a decision imposing on the preparation of changes to sectoral legislation in order to take into account, as necessary, the relevant work experience gained outside the working environment; and a decision imposing on the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and equal opportunities to prepare, together with the other ministries, a programme of employment or training of first-time prospectors, taking advantage of the resources of the Operational Programme for the implementation of European Cohesion Policy. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the issue of volunteer traineeships needs to be systematically regulated and not only in the way that the SDS Group approached the problem. Of course, it must be acknowledged that the introduction of the amendment to the Labour Relations Act has accelerated the Government's activity in this area. In the DeSUS Group, we agree with the purpose and purpose of the bill, but simply deleting the legal provision on volunteer traineeship will not solve the whole problem. Therefore, for us, MEPs and members of Desus, the envisaged activities of the Government are acceptable and satisfactory from this point of view, because they will take place systematically and substantively across individual departments with the overall objective of amending the sectoral laws governing volunteering on the one hand and, on the other hand, solutions will be sought to finance traineeships from the sources of European cohesion policy. In view of this in our parliamentary group, namely in Desus, we estimate that there is no need for today's proposal for a text of the amendment to the Labour Relations Act to be further considered or for further consideration, as it does not correspond to the nominal technical aspects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u94	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Germany will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! The SD Group has tabled in the legislative procedure a proposal for a amendment to the Labour Relations Act to abolish volunteer traineeships. Volunteer traineeship is a form of traineeship that our legislation has known for a long time. The Labour Market Regulation Act also lays down, inter alia, the basis for volunteering and, more specifically, volunteer traineeships are regulated in sectoral laws. It is true, however, that in the last few years this institution, like many others, has also developed and caused anomalies, unfair practices and the plight of the affected. In this case, it mainly touches young people. As regards volunteer traineeships, the Government has therefore already decided that the conclusion of voluntary traineeship contracts in the public sector is not allowed and has ordered the competent departments to prepare, as soon as possible, amendments to the sectoral laws allowing volunteer traineeships. The basic idea of the amendment of the law proposed by the SDS Group has our sympathy, but not the nature of the implementation itself. For we believe that this problem needs to be seen and solved, as it is, multiple-layered. Social Democrats will therefore support the Government's efforts to find the best solutions within the framework of the sectoral laws setting out the obligations of traineeships or volunteer traineeships. We also support its intention to reverse the potential for deregulation of professions in order to ensure that young people are able to move rapidly to the labour market and to co-finance the abolition of first-time job seekers' internships. This calls for agreement and agreement on the part of all concerned. The existing coalition contract also contains a provision which at the same time means our commitment not to allow unpaid practices and traineeships in an area where legislation provides for compulsory traineeships and practices. We have also advocated in previous governments that traineeships in the public sector should be abolished wherever this is not a professionally sound part of the educational process, and we remain in this position today. The objective to follow is to increase the number of young people employed indefinitely and traineeships means work for a certain period of time in order to enable an individual to be able to carry out his or her own work in a working relationship. Therefore, with regard to the proposed incentives for employers to hire trainees, we support the Government's opinion that this is not part of this law either. Now, watch out! The incentive for the employment of young unemployed persons provides that employers who, for an indefinite period of time, employ an unemployed person under 30 years of age who is registered in the unemployment register at least 3 months before employment are exempt from paying employers' social security contributions. These measures should be continued as a strong segmentation of the labour market particularly affects the youth population. With the amendment of the Law on Labour Market Interventions and Parental Protection, which we adopted on Tuesday, we have extended this measure for one year and we are promising at least as good a result as the first 9-month period, almost 2 000 500 young people working indefinitely. Social Democrats will continue to support measures that will increase the employment opportunities of young people and provide them with services for an indefinite period of time. The proposal concludes that the amendment to the Labour Relations Act is suitable for further consideration, and despite the knowledge that the proposal is well-intentioned, we will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Ms Violeta Tomić will present the position of the United Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u97	Dear President, distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members! Volunteering becomes a career opportunity for those young people who can be given a free job by their parents, or a method for exploiting young people who are forced to do some dirty work in addition to unpaid traineeships. In normal conditions of full employment, as we have had good 30 years after the war in this country, voluntary traineeships could be a normal way for graduates and graduates to learn the work process and gain work experience – even we sometimes worked as high school students in production. The student work, which we discussed a few days ago, was a suitable way of training in the course of study and has become a social dumping and over-exploitation method since we have permanent high unemployment. If voluntary traineeships were to start a career, they would continue to employ these graduates and graduates, they might still be able to trust his positive parties. Of course, reality is different. After the end of volunteering, the graduate is replaced with another volunteer as if it were consumption material. Thus, it is not unusual that the concerns and criticisms of such a form of work are becoming more and more loud, but that such a form of work is also contrary to the European Social Charter, which clearly sets out the rights of workers to a fair payment that will ensure a decent standard of living for them and their families. And voluntary training certainly does not guarantee these rights. Although Slovenian legislation knows two types of traineeships: paid and unpaid. However, there are unpaid voluntary traineeships, up to 60% of which are mostly in the public sector. According to the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, according to the number of volunteer traineeships, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, which has as many as 763 volunteers, is simply unacceptable. The Coalition stated in the Coalition Treaty that unpaid traineeships in areas where legislation provides for compulsory traineeships are not permissible. Sounds good, but we're not sure the coalition's serious. Only two days after the signing of the coalition agreement, the Ministry of Education issued a call for as many as 247 volunteers in schools and kindergartens. We hoped that the Government would wake up to the proposal that we are considering today, but, when familiarising itself with the issue of volunteer traineeships at its 13th regular session, it was not able to find a better solution than it was adopting five decisions that indicated that it did not support the conclusion of new volunteer traineeship contracts and that it was imposing on ministries to prepare the necessary changes and employment programmes. After all the laws that have been treated needlessly for three months following an emergency procedure, the Government would be expected to do the same where it is really necessary. However, free labour at the time of constant and unreasonable saving is clearly on the government's hands. The fact is that young people are in an increasingly difficult situation, and they are becoming increasingly inactive and unemployed. The average rate of employment among young people in 2013 was 43.5%, according to the Statistical Office, of 26.1% between 15 and 29 years of age. The information on the change in the structure of the recipients of the aid is also a source of concern. More and more charities are drawing attention to a worrying trend in the number of young applicants, young people who are unemployed by the age of 30. While we are aware in the United Left that the solution proposed by the SDS is not the most appropriate, it simply shuts down volunteer traineeships in all areas. We are convinced that it is necessary to address this issue with caution so that we do not cause any problems to those who are subject to a prerequisite for access to a professional examination which is a condition for the performance of the profession. However, the solution is, in principle, clear here as well. For those professions where the State has prescribed traineeships as a prerequisite for access to a professional examination which is a condition for the performance of a particular profession, the State must also ensure that they have the opportunity to do so, but for a decent payment. It seems unreasonable to us that the state determines the condition that you have to meet, but it does not offer you the opportunity to meet that condition, unless, of course, you can afford to work for free. In the United Left, we will conclude that the proposal is suitable for further consideration, despite our concerns. We believe that I have more than enough time for the Government to propose appropriate corrections by the second reading of the proposal on the home working body. However, the solution must be such that those young people for whom the traineeship is a condition for the performance of their profession will be provided with a system of quality, professional mentoring supported and decently paid traineeships. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u99	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! Our country's escorts have been blowing up ghosts for quite some time. Many young people and their organisations point out that in some professional areas, such as social work, law, regular work, I think paid traineeships can actually not be obtained. In these areas, many young people are really forced into volunteering. In fact, it is totally inappropriate for young people not to make a voluntary decision but to be forced into it. We Christian Democrats are pleased with the two fundamental solutions to the novel that we are dealing with here. The Novelo proposes to delete the legal basis for volunteering while at the same time providing for the exemption from payment of contributions by the employer who employs the trainee. This is a balanced solution that will allow for greater employability of trainees who, following the current arrangements, would be involved in volunteering. Such a solution is already provided for in the applicable Labour Market Intervention and Parental Protection Act, which is less than 30 years old if the employer employs them indefinitely. We have already called on the Ministry and the Government to systematically relieve the income from work for the entire working population when dealing with this law. Such a measure would be a good incentive for employers to create new jobs and consequently employment. The amendment also proposes to limit the exemption from payment of contributions so that traineeships are not used for employment in certain cases in order to achieve the maximum possible exemption from the payment of contributions for the time when the contract of employment of the trainee may otherwise be concluded. The note also provides for the adoption of a policy for the implementation of traineeships by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for a period of five years in order to ensure transparent, stable medium-term measures in the field of the implementation of traineeships in the Republic of Slovenia. It applies to all forms of traineeship. The training, according to the applicant, is the most important period of the young job-seekers after their education, especially in those professions where the apprenticeship is compulsory for the profession. Members of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats - will support the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček will present the position of the Allied Group of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u101	Your Honor! We have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Labour Relations Act, which was tabled by the Group of Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party to the National Assembly for its consideration and acceptance. The proposed amendments to the law provide for the abolition of volunteer traineeships, incentives for employers to recruit trainees and the legal basis for adopting the policy of implementing traineeships. In the Alliance, we agree with the purposes and objectives of the law on the abolition of volunteer traineeships. We would like to point out that, more than 10 years ago, the traineeship was compulsory and, within the mandate of 2000-2004, labour legislation has changed substantially. At that time, all social partners, including the Government, agreed that compulsory traineeships should be limited as much as possible and that exceptions should be entered either in a collective agreement or in law. This raises in particular the question of how consistent the country has been as an employer. Here we would also draw attention to the developments prior to this amendment of labour law, when the National Assembly, at the initiative of the Health Workers' Union in 1999, adopted amendments to the Health Act, which at that time limited volunteer training mainly for nurses. The law was then supplemented by a provision that the Minister of Health should prescribe standards to determine the necessary number of healthcare workers. The implementation of this provision has acted in such a way that public health institutions would be obliged to employ trainees if a certain number of jobs were not occupied by the regulations. And it appears that the legislator must also resort to similar measures after almost 15 years, as if we had learned nothing from this story. In particular, as the practice is increasingly being established that, above all, state institutions offer opportunities for young people to train in the search for a first job, with traineeships doing their job most of the time only as volunteers. If we have in the past been able to claim that unpaid traineeships are primarily an exception, they are now almost a rule. This practice certainly cannot be commended by the State. Only recently, the government provided information on the state of volunteer traineeships in the public sector, where, according to data from mid-November, more than 800 traineeships operated free of charge. The largest number of volunteers is in education, almost 760 in primary and secondary schools and kindergartens. As can be seen from the report of the Ministry of Labour, volunteer traineeships in public administration usually last between four and twelve months, mostly eight or ten months. It is no wonder, then, that young people are blind about their future and do not believe that we will offer them such measures as to reduce unemployment or to enable them to work. The Employment Relations Act, which is also governed by voluntary traineeships under the traineeship, which is exempted because the volunteer is not in a working relationship, but still subject to certain safeguard provisions. In the Alliance, however, we estimate that there is no real difference between the paid and volunteer traineeships except in the legal personality of the relationship. The only difference is that the trainees, if they were not volunteers, would actually be paid for the same work they are doing now. While it is true that volunteering is not entirely free in the public sector either. Volunteer trainees are also entitled to reimbursement of certain costs and contributions, but the information provided to the Government shows that the situation is also completely unregulated in this case. In some cases, they cover the costs of transporting to and from work, the costs of lunch and pay their contributions and provide them with only a meal. In addition, we would like to point out that compulsory public sector traineeships need only certain professions and others do not. For example, the courts have 40 volunteer trainees, but it is noted here that the volunteer traineeship in the courts is not equally regulated. They shall be trained under a pre-defined programme and then, on this basis, shall proceed to the preparatory state examination. Other volunteers who, for example, work at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the Ministry of Environment and Space and others should not, according to our assessment, have to work free of charge, as they are now doing in these state bodies. When we talk about volunteering, we should also draw attention to the Law on Volunteering. Although the legal definition of volunteering is clear, the Voluntary Act has a specific provision under which voluntary work is not considered to be free of charge for the purpose of professional training without the conclusion of a contract of employment, in accordance with the law governing working relationships or other law. Therefore, we call on the Government and the competent ministries to remove the pervasive confusion and to make a final decision that each traineeship is already prioritising a working relationship and that volunteering or voluntary work is the work that each individual does on his own free will and without the expectation of payment or direct or indirect material benefits for himself, either for the benefit of others or for the general benefit. In the Alliance, we are aware that the Government has dealt with this information or a report on volunteer traineeships. It recommended that the wider public sector no longer conclude contracts for such traineeships. It also invited the competent ministries to consider whether unpaid traineeships are really necessary and to amend their legislation accordingly. Nevertheless, we are surprised that she has not decided to take a more radical action and traineeship, at least in cases where she has not been required to carry out her profession, completely prohibited. In the Alliance, we are aware that the proposed law is not technically the best. In addition, according to our assessment, the proposed incentives for employers to recruit trainees have also been included in the law, which is governed by labour relations at systemic level. The same applies to the legal basis for adopting the policy of implementing traineeships. Speakers would like to point out that within the European Union, guarantees have been adopted for young people who want to prevent young people from leaving the goods and longer remain inactive. This is an age-share that enters the labour market for the first time. In times of crisis, young people, when job opportunities are declining and employers' demand is declining, want to ensure that they are at least able to take the first step into the labour market or that they are at least active. Therefore, the guarantees oblige countries to ensure that the young person is included in one of the measures: traineeships, job offers, training and so on. For young people, within four months of their application to the institution or to obtain formal education, the State is expected to provide a quality job offer, the possibility of further education or apprenticeship. The Youth Guarantee Implementation Plan provides for a traineeship measure aimed at obtaining adequate work experience for self-employment. These can only be obtained in direct working environments, in particular by transferring the skills of older and more experienced colleagues, and the introduction period is completed by a successful professional examination. For traineeships, almost EUR 25 million is foreseen, which means the possibility of employment of about 4,000 first-time job seekers. In addition, the Ministry responsible for work already has a general mandate under the Government and State Administration Act to develop employment policy programmes and measures, i.e. traineeships. We therefore assess that the provisions of the amendment of the law, which therefore introduce incentives for employers and the legal basis for the policy of implementing traineeships, are not necessary. As has already been said, in the Alliance, we support the purpose and purpose of the law in the work relating to the abolition of volunteer traineeships, and we will therefore, despite the fact that the law is not technically best, support the conclusion that the proposal for a law is a suitable basis for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u102	The text is given by the SMC Group, Mrs Erika Deklava.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u103	Dear Prime Minister, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! The amendments proposed by the draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Relations Act in the field of traineeships are essentially good. The Communication is clear: Volunteer traineeship must be abolished — and we all agree. The draft law also provides for the provision of a working relationship for all trainees during the course of the traineeship, the burden on the employer of the recruitment of trainees, the easier transition to a working relationship, the acquisition of work experience for those who acquire professional qualifications, and the provision of the legal basis and the obligation of the Government to adopt a policy for the implementation of traineeships. The objectives of the bill are good, but the law itself cannot be supported for substantive reasons. We believe that neither of the proposed solutions is part of the Labour Relations Act. First of all, it is important to ask whether the way in which the applicant wants to make changes is at all appropriate, since these solutions were previously not in line with the social partners. This is not a matter of insistence on the adoption of labour law, but rather of the fact that, in general, as regards the exercise of traineeships, the Labour Relations Act provides only that, by means of a sectoral law or collective agreement at the level of activity, it can be determined that a person first begins to carry out a job, an appropriate type and level of his or her professional education, and in order to be able to carry out his or her own work in a working relationship, he or she may conclude a contract of employment as a trainee. Sectoral laws and collective agreements are being amended and adopted by consensus between the social partners, i.e. those who know the needs of professions or activities best. Preparatory action should be compulsory in areas where the nature of work and profession make this meaningful and justified. Thus, the Labour Relations Act is not the law which stipulates that traineeships in some area are compulsory. The proposed solutions in this part are therefore inadequate. Accordingly, it is inappropriate to amend Article 124 of the same law in such a way as to prohibit volunteering, since volunteering is defined in other sectoral laws and not in the Labour Relations Act. Volunteer traineeships may only be carried out where this form of work is permissible or determined in accordance with a specific field law. Where voluntary traineeships are permitted, the Labour Relations Act of Article 124, paragraph 1, shall only provide for minimum protection rights and not for the admissibility or obligation of voluntary traineeships. Therefore, the proposed amendment to Article 124 of the current Labour Relations Act is not appropriate. The minimum protection rights mentioned above concern the duration and implementation of traineeships, limited working time, breaks and rests, reimbursement of work-related costs, compensation liability and safety and health at work in accordance with the specific law. As has already been said, volunteer training should be regulated individually, in each field law separately. It should also be added that it cannot be provided for under a collective agreement at the level of activity, as is the case for ordinary traineeships under Article 120 of the Labour Relations Act. If we list some laws and regulations defining volunteering, these are: the Law on Public Servants, the Regulations on the duration of traineeships, the manner, course and programme of training of trainees, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Legal Examination, the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, the Regulations on the traineeship of professional workers in the field of education and education, the Law on Medical Services, the Law on Health Activities, the Regulations on the traineeships and professional examinations of healthcare workers and health professionals in the field of health activities. All these laws need to be amended accordingly so that volunteer training is no longer permitted and not in the Labour Relations Act. The bill further mentions the principle Every work is counted, which of course we support. In this context, we therefore welcome the Government's conclusions adopted at its 13th regular session. 12. 2014 which prohibits the further conclusion of voluntary training contracts in the public sector and requires all ministries to prepare, as soon as possible, amendments to the sectoral laws allowing voluntary traineeships and requires the Ministry of Labour to prepare a work programme or traineeship for first-time job seekers using funds under the operational programme 2014-2020. We believe the Government's proposals are going in the right direction. As a result of all of the above, we will not support the draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Relations Act in the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u104	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u105	Thank you for your words, Mr President, dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have already advocated in the elections to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in the programme that we will defend the transition as quickly as possible to the post-educated working relationship. Thus, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, in our pre-election programme for this year's elections, we also had the abolition of volunteer traineeships and the introduction of paid. Since we have enough waiting for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to do something for young people – the Minister will be a minister for two years already in March, the situation is still the same – and since we do not want the Slovenian Democratic Party's programme to be just a dead letter on paper and to deliver on the promises we made to the voters before the elections, we have decided to act on our own. That is why we have tabled this novel. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we find that volunteers are being used to do work instead of those who are paid to do this work. Despite the fact that volunteer trainees are gaining work experience, it is not fair, in our view, that they are not paid for their work. With our proposal, we are solving both the problem of unpaid traineeships and we are proposing incentives for employers to hire trainees both in the private and in the public sector. The problem of unpaid traineeships has also recently arisen in the public sector, but we note that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not responded either in due time or in due time, as it has only responded when we tabled the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group without concrete proposals and deadlines for their adoption. So there is no action on the part of the Government after our investment. When we talk about unpaid traineeships in Slovenia, we must first find that the area is completely disorderly. There are no data on this type of exploitation of young people, and there is more unpaid work from day to day in both the public and the private sectors, and the state of unpaid traineeships is used literally systematically. Trainees who are not paid for their work, although compulsory under the law, are found in schools, kindergartens, health care, financial administration and many other institutions and are currently more than 800. Since they often perform their work instead of others, it is also questionable to realize their traineeships because they do not achieve the desired goals. Although the Coalition Treaty makes it clear that unpaid practices and traineeships in areas where legislation provides for compulsory traineeships and practices are not admissible, the State informs young people on a daily basis that their work is not worth paying. The main objectives of the amendments and the update of the Labour Relations Act are, in particular, three. Firstly, payment shall be provided for all forms of traineeship by replacing the volunteer traineeship, which can only be done in the public sector, with a system-wide recruitment measure. Secondly, the measure so far to exempt employers from the payment of contributions for the employment of a person under 30 years of age is extended to all traineeships for the period of traineeships who are employed after completion of schooling. The aim of this measure is to stimulate employers in both the private and public sectors for the employment of trainees. Thirdly, the law requires the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt the policy of implementing traineeships and financing them in a specific document and with concrete measures. We do not plan negative financial effects because, on the basis of the data collected in the proposal of the Law on Labour Market Intervention Measures and Parental Protection, the Government has stated that such a measure has positive financial effects. The government has proposed extending the duration of this law, so we do not see any reason why such a measure would not be supported by the coalition in our proposal for a law also for trainees who, after their education, seek for the first time the employment and work experience they need to pursue their career path. In the amendments to the Labour Relations Act, we urge the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare a policy for the implementation of traineeships strategically for a period of five years. Thus, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has free hands to provide resources and to further develop a policy in the field of traineeships. We will also support the law because, in addition to the system-wide traineeship solution in Slovenia, there is also a clear legal basis for the Government to prepare and adopt, as soon as possible, a policy for the implementation of the traineeship, which will include funding and co-financing for the employment of trainees in both the private and public sectors, where this is necessary. In the SDS Group, we have decided that there is sufficient waiting for action, so we have proactively approached the problem of young people. A while ago, an urgent meeting took place in the National Assembly on the issue of non-implementation of the national programme, where everyone listened to our initiative and finally supported it in the vote. We expect the said Labour Relations Act to receive support from both coalition and opposition parties, as it is systemic and leaves room for even better proposals on the part of others. The bill is thus open to coordination with both coalitions and social partners during the legislative process, if, of course, the Government has a serious intention to address the issue of traineeships and no longer intends to discriminate against trainees compared to other workers. In view of the promise of support from all opposition parties to our proposal, we also call on the coalition to take this issue seriously, to support our proposals and then through amendments, through debate and also through negotiations, as you yourself have said, we have a final solution. Let this be our gift to young people at this Christmas time, that at last from the words we are full of, especially by the coalition Members, I am afraid that you will not support this just because the Slovenian Democratic Party has proposed it, but if we have proposed it, at least we have done a lot. [[…]] We will support this in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u106	Mr Andrej Chuš has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u107	It saddens me that a few Members of Parliament, who represented positions and opposed our proposal, have now left [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u108	Can you turn off the microphone? Now you can sign up.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u109	Thanks again for saying that. As I have said, I am saddened that many Members and Members representing positions and expressing opposition and concerns in our bill proposal, particularly by the ruling coalition, have now packaged and left the Chamber nicely, because I think that the debate will be substantive, the purpose of the law is good and we are also open in our Group to any coordination that will lead to the final goal. At the outset, I would like to say that the Government is deceiving, because our proposal does not take any rights, it merely provides a basis for the employment of trainees. The Labour Relations Act in its 124th Article discusses volunteer traineeships. I do not know where the Government and the coalition Members are from now that the Labour Relations Act does not govern volunteer traineeships at all. It doesn't make sense, and I really don't know where that knowledge came from. In any event, even if this proposal, which we have proposed in our parliamentary group, is rejected, it will be necessary to amend the Labour Relations Act in any case. Please remember those words. Let us go together and take the best solutions through the legislative process. On the basis of my reading or listening to your views, I have been given the feeling that the Government and the coalition parliamentary groups have not read our proposal at all. On this basis, I have found that no one has read the transitional provisions of our bill at all. I don't know if it's a new policy and new standards in politics to read, we can say, the legal opinion of the Government's Law Service, then it's really an achievement to congratulate. The means of volunteering must be provided by the employer. As Mr Mahnic said in his presentation of the Group's position, the Law on Labour Market Intervention Measures and Parental Protection says there are no financial implications. I think that on Tuesday in the National Assembly we have extended the operation of this law, otherwise interventional, for one year and it has indeed been found that there are positive financial consequences. So now I really don't know where this fear and opposition came from. At the same time, I would like to point out that the coalition rejects another systemic proposal to address the issue of financing traineeships in Slovenia. A few days or weeks ago there was a meeting of the Committee on Finance, which also addressed the reform of student work. We have presented a number of concrete amendments in our parliamentary group. The one most attached to traineeships, however, predicted that they would halve concession funds for student workers, i.e. student services and the Student Organisation of Slovenia, and at the annual level they would have a stable and long-term resource to finance traineeships in the Republic of Slovenia. Unfortunately, of course, because you have not read at all, you have received an order as to how to vote and – let's refuse! Today – another proposal and again we hear: it is necessary to reject. In doing so, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are offering a systemic solution – for the first time and for the second time – with a long-term source of funding, while the Secretary of State on the Committee on Finance, I have on a tapegram, stated that we have the resources that the Government has the resources foreseen for 2015 and 2016 alone. If such a proposal is better – well, we respect, but then at least say it in front of everyone. I must say that I was hurt by the debate of the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. With the reform of student work, we will take more than €50 million from students, which will also go to a large number of pensioners, and there was a lot of talk about intergenerational solidarity. Your opposition to our proposal for the benefit of young trainees is definitely not in the spirit of intergenerational solidarity. It was also said that our proposal for a law was not in line with the social partners. Please list at least one social partner who disagrees with the fact that volunteer trainees will be paid for their work. Just give me one, please! It's just some kind of slogan and it's not true. There has also been a speech that through European funds we will acquire funds for indefinite contracts for young people, that the European Union does not provide funding for a certain period of time, but it does not. The Labour Market and Parental Protection Interventions Act states that Poland is funding funds for a certain period of time. You're not consistent again. And the government has once again shown a great deal of nonconsistency, unfortunately this is not the first time. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we followed our pre-election programme, where we ensured that we would solve the problem of traineeships, volunteering, and enable young people to enter the market as quickly as possible. Now, if, of course, we want to draw on European funds, young people must be on the market for at least three months earlier. I think that our proposal is certainly much better in this respect as well. We gave you a hundred days of peace, but I don't think volunteers will wait a hundred days. In the amendment to the Labour Relations Act, we ourselves impose upon the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, that is, you who have this power, which you have here a voting machine, which you know best to determine your own policy of implementing and financing volunteer traineeships or traineeships. We have already submitted a second system proposal ourselves and are following our programme. Regrettably, as has been said many times, the government has only remained at some conclusions and conclusions, but people are disappointed. These findings to get acquainted with something are enough. I said before at the first point, let us accept the conclusion that the earth is round — and with this we will help whom? No, no, no. Nor will we help if, at government meetings or in the National Assembly, we decide that the situation in the field of volunteer traineeships is not regulated. Are we going to help anyone with this? No, we won't. It takes action. Of course, when we introduced the law into the procedure, we said that we are putting it into the first reading, we want to hear the reactions of the social partners, other parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, including the Government, and we are sad that not one parliamentary group, or the Government, has approached together to improve the law. In the final stage we can confirm it in the first reading, the law goes to the second reading, we fix it together, and I believe we will have the best possible result: to solve the problem of volunteer trainees. Our novel does not stop the traineeships, but regulates the payment for each trainee. Let me tell you something else from the youth sector. The Slovenian Youth Council, the President pointed out: "This exercise of traineeships is not in line with other national, European, international labour standards and young people's ability to adequately achieve autonomy and violates fundamental human rights, such as the right to equal pay for equal work or fair pay for work and the right to just and satisfactory working conditions." One or two parliamentary groups, including the Government, said that we would obtain funds for paid traineeships from Europe, but here would also draw attention to another problem related to this. The Youth Guarantee scheme is also intended to address the problem of volunteer traineeships, and there has been a lot of talk in this area, which provides for a measure from the fax immediately, but is not yet implemented. It should also be noted that this measure will not address the maximum exploitation of volunteer traineeships, as the public administration will not be entitled to draw on subsidies for the payment of young people who are required to undertake compulsory traineeships. In ten minutes, we demented all your findings, and I mean, I don't, but please, and I call for us to approach constructive dialogue. As you have heard, the opposition is united, the law is suitable for further consideration, few votes are missing and I think they could be found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u110	As you have seen, we are in the middle of a general debate between Members and Members. The word is Mrs Jelka Godec, SDS. Get Mr. Tomaž Lisec ready, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u111	President, thank you very much for your word. I am a little surprised that so many people are opting out of a debate that is very important for young people and for the employment of young people. And it is true that there is a lot of people here in the hall today, and those who are not in the hall today – they are full of words, that the youth world is standing and even in these opening discussions we have heard many times that they are engaged, of course, for the employment of young people and so on. These people also go to the public stands and discuss youth unemployment, this issue of volunteer traineeships, of course, vote that they are against volunteer traineeships, but again today we hear some other words that our amendment to the Labour Relations Act is not substantively suitable for consideration. About this a little later. Of course, volunteering is not in all areas and it is not compulsory, as we have heard today from one of the debates, that volunteering is sometimes compulsory. It's not mandatory. All laws state that "preparation can also be done by volunteering". This is the case in the field of education. Since I come from this area alone, I know this volunteer internship the most, and as one of the principals said last time, it is one of the best things. Having such an employee – that's great; you kick him up, down, left, right, he goes wherever you want. No better, he said – cynically it was said, not positive. He was appalled at the fact that the ministry and the government were capable of doing so at all, and I think he is one of the few principals who is aware of this and who leaves his volunteer intern in his professional position. Otherwise, we have schools where the French teacher teaches — not to tell you everything! Because the physics teacher teaches chemistry, biology, mathematics, computer science and extended living. So they use it for everyone where other teachers can't: replacing the hospital and so on. And then what's the internship here? What is the professional exercise here? This is a common slave work, as some have said today. Volunteers or traineeships were sometimes used in education to replace professional workers or to replace retired professionals, and then those young ones later became teachers. Since these jobs have been run out, volunteering has been introduced at the Ministry of Education, as well as calls for volunteer training each year, because then this person can also take a professional examination, because without this training he cannot perform a professional examination – if he gets a job. Don't think he'll get it! Because even if he doesn't get a job as a trainee, even after he takes a professional exam, it's very hard. In fact, one year of traineeship work free of charge, his work is not professional work, because many times we hear that they do everything else, only their professional work. That's, I'll say, just to get her to do the internship, get her to take the professional exam and then wait for the job. A lot of teachers don't even get a job at school, but then they do something else. See, the state of volunteer traineeships is essentially used systematically and essentially exploits the plight of young people, because traineeships are, in some cases, a condition for certain professions, such as health care, education, lawyers, and thus do everything that the employer imposes on them. For the employer, this person does not have any added value, does not need to be paid, nor does he care what he does, only to replace what is necessary. The Slovenian Democratic Party's proposal to amend the Labour Relations Act is systemic and thus introduces a systemic solution. It abolishes volunteering and encourages all employers to hire trainees and also employers to have one of these, not just a trainee. The government reacted in a panic and, in fact, at the 13th regular session – interesting when you read a public statement, a press release saying that it "imposes competent ministries to prepare changes to the field laws as soon as possible..." As soon as possible! What time is this? Is that 10, 15 days or is that one year or six months? In fact, it is not defined, and when you say that the government is doing the right thing, I am interested in what the steps are and what has already been done. "...and at the same time consider the necessity of compulsory traineeships to carry out their own work..." - so as soon as possible. Of course I'm asking again when it should be. And given what the government has imposed on the ministries, I find the Minister's very interesting answer to my question. The Minister of Education, Education and Sport replied as follows: "The Ministry of Education, Science and Sport intends to lead a similar policy in the field of organised traineeships with an established working relationship." He's talking about volunteering. So, I was wondering if the minister was sitting at that government meeting when the government ordered all ministries to consider volunteering. Based on that answer, I don't think so! This coordination between the Government, the ministries or the obedience of ministries is also quite questionable. When you say that our change is not substantive – a colleague has already said that there is 124th Article in the Labour Relations Act, where it is beautifully written about volunteering, and you would change six regional laws instead of this law, and at the same time all the rules. See, the Regulation on traineeships in education in Article 3 states: "The provisions of the Labour Relations Act and the Law on the organisation and financing of education shall apply to the rights and obligations set out in the employment contract and the contract for the exercise of volunteer training." So in the Regulation you are told that the articles of the Labour Relations Act should also be amended, and this is that article 124, which should be amended – so the volunteer traineeship is completely abolished. Both I, like all my colleagues and the opposition who have previously explained the views of the parliamentary groups, call on the coalition and the largest coalition party to only support this change, so that it can be further discussed and then, of course, by certain amendments or whatever, by talking only to help ensure that the volunteer traineeship is no longer in any area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u112	Mr Tomaž Lisec, SDS, has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Lilliana Kozlovich, SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u113	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! In 2013, when amending the Labour Relations Act, they took a step forward and, at the proposal of the SDS, New Slovenia and the Slovenian People's Party, improved the status of the Slovenian trainee by giving him an additional right, for volunteer trainees, in particular food supplement, transport and some other minorities. This time we went to the SDS party in line with our pre-election promises, one step further. This is how we want to eradicate the volunteer traineeship system. The simplest, most logical and most systematic is to amend the existing 124th Article of the Labour Relations Act, which speaks of volunteering. It's the easiest way. We open the law, there we have the possibility of transitional and final provisions, so that all other laws that are subject to the Labour Relations Act are regulated only once. Article 3 of the law, which we are proposing, nicely states which laws or provisions of which articles of the laws cease to apply by the application of this law: the Law on Public Servants, the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, the Law on the Law on the Law of State Examination and so on. And more; those who refer to an non-systemic solution, I ask you. Today we have an opportunity with one law to cut into more laws and suddenly settle everything. And you say that this solution is non-systematic and you will propose five laws and in every law you will change that law and the Labour Relations Act. For you will probably not be able to afford to amend, for example, the Law on Public Servants, where you will eradicate volunteering, without prejudice to the Labour Relations Act. And then talk about how some submarital acts need to be amended. Your Honor, read Article 4 of this Law. I will read it to you so that the public will not say – who is systemic and who is non-systemic. [[…]] "In the period 15 days after the entry into force of this Act, the competent national authorities shall bring the sub-legislative acts into line with this Act." But for coalition MPs, this solution is not systemic. Even if it wasn't systemic. During this session you changed quite a few laws where you said you were sorry, it is not a systemic solution, but something has to be done and we will exert ourselves to do so – about systemic solutions another time. You have a systemic solution this time, but no. Turn the story around for one pathetic reason: the proponent is the Slovenian Democratic Party! There are no other reasons, so I also believe that three quarters of the coalition members who have already applied for the debate in this law would rather remain silent than say some nonsense and then have problems with this systemic and non-systemic solution. In short, a purely political whim leads you to avoid supporting this law, dragging you to the surface of a systemic solution. Once again, I ask what is more systematic, in one law through transitional and final provisions, to regulate all other laws relating to the issue of volunteer traineeships and any sub-laws or you prefer to have five or six laws, i.e. five meetings of working bodies, a meeting of the National Assembly and so on, where you will change the regional laws and once again the Labour Relations Act. Really, this system logic of yours is in no way going into my head. I think it's purely a mere political transfer of those who oppose the law. I'll keep doing this. During this session, there was a huge debate: young, young, young. Today, with the support of this law, you are expressing false intergenerational solidarity, false support for young people, a false idea of how you will solve volunteerism. The government itself wrote: "We are familiar with information on the state of volunteer traineeship in the public sector. The Government does not support the conclusion of new contracts in volunteer traineeships in the public sector." Fine! The words well written on paper, even in the coalition contract you have written how volunteer training should be eradicated, but then the story ends. To support all those who say that we are not talking to the social partners, let me remind you that today is the first debate of the law. We can invite the entire range of all those who feel that this law or the subject of traineeship is touching them. Everyone can debate. For those articles that touch on traineeships, or on volunteering or other solutions, there will also be an opportunity on the working body, of course if you, honourable Members of the coalition species, give a green light to this law so that they can say what they think about this 124th Article of the Labour Relations Act, which touches volunteer traineeship. We will also be able to open a debate on traineeship in the field of justice, education, health education, all of them, because we also touch on those laws with transitional and final provisions. But like I said, all those people who talk about how suddenly the SDS changes things overnight. We are changing one law, one article of this law, and we are adding something else, and this is a famous change overnight! And you'll take your time and change five laws. Really this mathematical logic of yours about this rational, transparent and I don't know what legal functioning of the coalition has slowed me down already, I apologize to the expression, very much devoured. If we are not the only ones in the SDS who are talking about the need to resolve this, I will read to you the opinion of the Slovenian Youth Council, which I think is just a representative sample of young people. And the Young Plus Syndicate. The Youth Plus Union and the Youth Council of Slovenia are extremely skeptical that the calls and recommendations made today, i.e. after the Government's decision, and information will bring concrete solutions to ensure that young people receive decent paid work experience. The Government's report does not show any concrete solutions, particularly in terms of funding. Neither were the ministries given deadlines for regulating legislation nor the way volunteer traineeships would be banned, nor did they say anything about paid traineeships as to how they would be provided. In short, we demand that funds be provided for paid and quality traineeships through a sustainable source of funding. Let's touch the funding. You write in legislation, especially in this mandate, easily when dealing with some financial resources: there is no effect on the budget or on any other public consumers. Nor did you write any financial measures in the draft law on intervention measures in the field of labour market and parental protection. Okay. We think that there will also be no negative financial measures here, because all traineeships have more than enough budget to handle it. And even if there was some problematic solution to be found, there was some funding to be provided — one of the previous laws that we dealt with during this week suggested that instead of giving to student organisations and student services, we should give more money for paid traineeships. But the coalition, of course, probably didn't want to hear it again from some political whim. We are still waiting on the proposal for a rebalancing for 2015. You have a chance there, too, if there may be a million missing, but you will probably be quiet and the voice of the young will be heard against it. We have the opportunity to draw on the European resources that are for the problem of the rescue of traineeships in young people, but it is good to speak in words when we have three options, where to take it from, if necessary for financial resources, but it will only be for words on how to eradicate volunteer training; but when we have the law, we are very quiet. Suddenly, even members of the coalition have a problem today that employers will be exempt from paying their contributions during the traineeship. In one marriage, in another case, you are pleased that your employers are forgiven, and you are not comfortable with the other. In the course of one day, you are changing your system’s thinking and perspectives on how to deal with specific issues when adopting individual laws. And, Your Honor, it's hard to follow you because we don't even know what your systemic solutions are if they're not there or if those details change within hours and hours. Even all those who talk about how each work counts – right, let us make each work count as being paid; here you have a law, you support it in the first reading, let us go to the committee, let everyone say what they will be, and make the Law on Working Relations as a roof law, as it does in the field of traineeships. Everyone's talking about it: the social state, the job paid to young people When it's the law here, all those social senses that we've been listening to today, I think six hours in the fiscal rule, how our proposal destroys the social state. [[…]] Here, the social state on top level – paid internship! But the coalition is against it. Why? Because it is likely that by means of sectoral laws, when they will, at least this will be a contribution when you refuse to assign the Director of State to work tomorrow, but within a period of time – come on – Christmas-new holidays, and within one month they prepare five laws. In doing so, they coordinate with the Ministry of Education, with the Minister of Justice, with the Minister of Health, so that you can put everything together and make five laws. Because it's probably easier for you to fix that than it is for one marriage to solve the problem. In short, I really don't understand why the simple solution in Article 124 – yes, we have also added 124.a, which is about the policy of implementing traineeships and is by no means out of the concept of labour law – you have also found some problem here that this is somehow not affecting working relationships. In short, Your Honor! I will address you again today, Members of the Mir Cerar Party, because I know that colleagues from SD and Desus have problems with such a change, but you have talked about how to overcome the client policy, how to have simple, rational, legally easy solutions, and you will once again vote against the law, which is systemic, transparent, simple, rational. It is a pity, indeed, that those pre-election promises of cooperation also under such a petty law as this Labour Relations Act, you forget about these concrete promises with every "against" tribulation, just because it is the SDS's proponent. Consider tomorrow's vote whether such a policy is worth your while or whether you will be asked what you were saying before the elections and what you are doing now. I believe that a number of young people will ask you what you have in the coalition contract and how you pressed or pressed the key in tomorrow's vote. I suggest that you are consistent with your words, take this to action and confirm the "for" key tomorrow to go to the working body meeting, maybe even improve the law and probably accept it at the January session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u114	The word has magic. Lilliana Kozlovich, SMC. Get Mr. Uroš Prikl ready, DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u115	Thank you, Mr President, for your respectable colleagues! My debate may be slightly different, to a large extent I agree with what I have heard on both the proposaler's side and the groups of Members, but unfortunately in one segment I can't even agree with what the Government may have said, and I will also say my point of view, because I think we don't really need a change of law, at least not as it is explained. In fact, when we look at what has been stated by the applicant for a reason and also what has been the case with the individual views of the parliamentary groups, the proposaler points out that in recent times there have been concerns in the public about volunteering by NGOs and individuals, especially because young people are being used to carry out their work without pay. [[…]] I agree with that. This is really happening in practice. I also cite among the reasons that so far the regulation has proved to be an arrangement that can be used in order for volunteer trainees to do their job instead of someone else. I agree with that, too. Then you further point out that you are essentially based on the principle that each work counts, and that it is intended to relieve employers and abolish the status of volunteer traineeship. But when we hear this explanation, I think that the debate itself and also says that, as we are doing today, we should not, in fact, act. Because we solve problems quickly, and I think at the wrong end. Not because it is an opposition law, but in general, I do not think that the practice in general was the most appropriate. Look what we've been talking about these days. On the one hand, we talked about the student work, the work of the pensioners, the work of the disabled — not the disabled, or the other way around — and today about volunteering. But if we look at the background of this issue, we will find that in fact there is a key to this failure to respect legislation; that legislation is actually being misused, that it is being exploited and that there is often nothing wrong with the law, but that it is in practice being misexecuted. I think that before we go through a change of law, we must first achieve that the laws we have are respected, so that control is exercised, to determine who the perpetrators are, and that the perpetrators are punished. Even if it is the public sector and those responsible in the public sector. Because if we go fast and flat, we'll actually lose the point. If we go to look – if we talk today about volunteering – what is the essence of volunteering and this is the essence or purpose of the legislator, we can find in the explanation of the law adopted in 1997 and, at that time, in Article 198 to 102, in fact, set up a traineeship. He put it this way: The legislator found that under the previous legislation, according to the previous ones, traineeships were of double importance; that is, training, because education programmes did not include sufficient practical learning, and also the traineeship was corrective because the state allowed young people to work. When preparing this law at the time, they wondered whether the traineeship was even necessary, and they also made a comparison and found that traineeships were almost unknown in Europe. A similar comparison was made by you. In fact, I think the proposaler has mentioned three countries that still have some kind of knowledge of this form. At that time, the legislator found that there was already so much practical learning in the educational systems that compulsory traineeships were abolished and that its purpose was no longer training. Today we have heard many times that training is the goal. The explanation of the law states that the purpose is to check the qualifications of the one who has studied and who has completed a certain degree — that is, no longer training. And ZDR and ZDR 1 no longer talk about compulsory traineeships, but as for volunteer traineeships, he left it to individual industries to see if they needed to check if anyone was already qualified and to make an additional examination. It has set a minimum of rights, and what is essential has also determined that, in such a case, a contract of employment should not be concluded, but only a written contract. This law was coordinated with the social partners throughout 2013, and was also adopted in the National Assembly without a single vote against. Today, we will change this without the consent of the social partners and, in my opinion, without a proper reflection. Let me give you a very practical example. We only talk about young people, but this internship, volunteering, is not only used by young people. If someone finishes high school and, for example, works in a congregation and then ends a law school at work, they have a working relationship for an indefinite period of time. If we do this, he will have to break his employment relationship if he wants to train in court, because when he has taxes and contributions paid, he actually has a working relationship in court. I believe that if we change the law today or adopt it, we will eliminate the possibility for those who do not study regularly to possibly perform those tests that are still necessary, and of course we need to check whether this is even necessary under sectoral legislation. In a way, we are reintroducing a traineeship that we have found that we do not need because education is so good. When we talk about burdening employers with this, the trainee for the employer is not a burden, but it is in some ways, even if taxes and contributions are paid, an additional burden. At the same time, if he is not able to get a job in the end, because the employer has to prepare a trainee programme, he has to appoint a mentor, and for that employer who does not intend to hire such a trainee, it is somehow a waste of time. And where is the guarantee that the employer who gets paid such taxes and contributions will not continue to abuse it? I do not think we have this guarantee and we are back to life – even if we change this law today and determine how it will be implemented in practice. My conclusion is that we once again have an example of a law that shows that we need to think carefully about the state of our employment, our jobs. It sounds really nice that every job counts, but what we can do about it. Everyone does what he thinks is black, illegal, and then he comes to the National Assembly and asks for legalization. I think we need to start with control, find out what the real situation is, and also make people aware that laws need to be respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u116	The text is given by the proposer, Mr Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u117	Dear Mrs Kozlovich, it is true that there is often a hurry in the National Assembly, everything is accepted quickly, but especially on your part. For everything you've been investing in the last week, two in the National Assembly, you're proposing an emergency procedure. So everything quickly, one treats, we adopt the law and then we will live on better – "how". That is why we have tabled in our parliamentary group the amendment to the Labour Relations Act in the first reading; that is to say, firstly, to hold a debate in the first session, then, if we confirm it – I believe that we will – goes to the parent committee where the law can be corrected and then to the last procedure. I think that we are very correct and constructive, that we have invested in the first reading and that we are not blackmailing with anything. We've given the starting point, let's step together and fix it. However, I will say that a number of people from your parliamentary group have also said that traineeships are a problem and that this needs to be addressed as soon as possible. But we're not in a hurry right now. Today, young people are in an unequal position in the labour market also because of this. All calls require a certain working age and you can't even compete with others or the elderly. Then we have statistics that we are on top of Greece after the percentage of young people living with parents. Two thirds of young people up to the age of 34 live in Slovenia with their parents. We can't be proud of that. If we pay these volunteers, I am sure that it will also have an important impact on the independence of young people, not to talk about other multiplier effects. I agree with you that volunteer traineeships no longer serve their purpose, I agree, because volunteer trainees have become a girl for everyone. At times, the purpose of the traineeship was to prepare as best as possible for the work you will do, but today volunteers do everything else, just not because they are viewed as cheap labour; they get lunch and travel costs; we pay him a monthly ticket in Ljubljana, and every day lunch, 20 days a month, will work 8 hours a day or more because he wants to prove himself because he is proud to get a job, happy. But no, it's being used, and that's what you need to call a stop. When we think a little further, a little bit wider, I also think that our fellow Members from Desus should definitely support this, because more young people will work, more money will also be for pensions.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u118	Mr Uroš Prikl, DeSUS, has the floor to prepare Mr Ljubo Žnidar, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u119	President, thank you so much for your word. I knew when I had to sign up for the word, although I am a little disappointed, I must be honest, because relatively or absolutely few Members are currently in the National Assembly, and as far as I have information, there is no meeting of the working body. But good. I am personally against volunteering, but I would not compare it, as has already been the case in previous discussions, with some modern slave form of work, although it is also not far from the truth at the end of the day if someone has some work, useful, important, but gets paid only for lunch, and for those pesky transport costs, but not for that added value which he has brought to the working group. Personally, I'm not ashamed of any of the things I've done in the past, but I have to say that some things I'd do differently. When I was at the Ministry of Health as Secretary-General, I must say that I used this measure and I am not proud of this decision. True, like me at the time, I believe that many employers today are forcing a relatively irregular situation in the labour market to use these plant solutions, called volunteer traineeships. You know, it's been a long time in the public sector that it's been forbidden to hire new staff. It was very difficult for me at the time of the previous government to gain agreement on student work and so on and so forth, and in all this staff deficit, I was somehow forced to use this matter. Of course, I agree with the fact that it is necessary to regulate the system not only of traineeships but also of the entire system of employment policy in our country. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, this is my conclusion and my assessment, has taken a systematic approach to this. Let me mention just some conclusions that she adopted about a week ago or at a previous meeting. It is prohibited to conclude new non-paid contracts, i.e. voluntary traineeships, which is the decision by which it imposed on the competent departments to prepare, as soon as possible, amendments to the sectoral laws allowing voluntary traineeships, of course, when considering the necessity of compulsory traineeships to carry out their own work. Furthermore, the decision imposing amendments to the sectoral legislation in order to take into account the relevant work experience acquired outside the employment relationship as well as, lastly, the decision imposed on the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs — yes, for the same opportunities — to draw up, together with the other ministries, a programme of employment or the implementation of the first-time job searcher traineeship using the funds of the Operational Programme for the implementation of the European Cohesion Policy for the period 2014-2020. I think these are systemic approaches. There is something to be done in the field laws, and this is a place where the light of the world must also see the proposal you are making in the U.S.D. I do not think that the ZDR is the right place to regulate or abolish volunteering, because, as you know, it has been admitted to torture in the Economic and Social Council with the long ones, but I will not say painful but very difficult negotiations by all the social partners. I believe that this could cause problems in the Economic and Social Council if such a partial solution is brought into such a law. The measures based on the conclusions adopted last week by the Government, I am sure they are the right ones; also, the co-ordinator of the Ministry of Labour is the right institution. I expect it to be concrete, we know what a specific timeline means, and that it will approach the implementation of the conclusions reached. My "no" proposed solution will not be because the SDS is a proponent, believe me. I'm looking into your eyes and I'm being honest. I hope that I have tried you with some arguments at least if I have not already convinced you of what I am saying. But know, fellows, that I believe you have achieved your purpose. Together, we will achieve the goal. I very quickly expect this from the government in a very fast-made marriage or in the field of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u120	Mr Ljubo Žnidar, SDS, has the floor. Get Mrs. Irena Kotnik ready, SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u121	Mr President, thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! Today, I would be very happy if I were to propose a law on the systematic regulation of the Government's traineeship. But it's not like that. I believe that the Government can be extremely pleased to have a Slovenian Democratic Party, in the round, in the National Assembly, which prepares two-thirds of all amendments, a supplement for further consideration as a proposal, a supplement or as a novelty. It's been six months. The times are not pink, and especially today's times are not pink for young people, so we have also prepared this proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party. There may be some added value, some improvement, but I can still say I'm happy today. I am pleased that we have encouraged the Government, because we have heard today from the Secretary of State that they will now actively start to think about this issue. There's only one thing I'm missing: the deadline in which the government will start, or the deadline in which the government will do something. Time is running out, problems, but problems are worse for young people from day to day. This proposal is an operational proposal, because in the proposal itself, young people actually get some kind of assurance to carry out their first working practice. In addition, they gain that confidence in their continued search for their first job. These are very important steps for those young people who are looking for their first job. Of course, there are more segments here, not only this segment, but something needs to be done in this area, because many times the phrase that young people are our future – yes, but they need to be helped, they need to be given the basis, they need to be given the opportunity, they need to be helped. The times are not pink for the young and the government, please let us do something about your side!... Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u122	Procedurally, Dr. Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u123	President, I suggest that, in terms of objective data and true facts, you remind Mr Žnidar not to mislead the public with the information that the Government has been in power for six months and a half, because it is only 90 days. I hope Mr. Žnidar learns how to count. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u124	We will continue the debate because there is no need for further clarification. That was on the air. Mrs. Irena Kotnik, SMC, has the floor. Let's get Mrs. Susana Pretty Šimenka ready, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u125	Honorable President, colleagues, colleagues! If I focus on education and education, volunteer work is mainly due to the increased number of teachers working in the labour market and the lack of job vacancies. The tendering conditions for employment give priority to candidates with a professional examination and I think I have explained why we are actually talking about volunteer work today or why this volunteer work has even occurred. The Law on the Reorganisation and Financing of Education and Education in Article 110 provides for traineeships so that traineeships can also be carried out as volunteer traineeships. The Regulation on the traineeship of professional workers in the field of education and education in Article 3 provides that traineeships shall be carried out on the basis of a contract concluded on the employment of an apprentice or a contract concluded on the exercise of volunteer training. The rights and obligations set out in the Employment Contract and the Volunteer Training Contract shall apply the provisions of the Labour Relations Act and the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. In the field of education and education there are 762 volunteers for volunteering, of which 142 for the work of assistant educators and 21 for the training of preschool children, I think we will start asking questions later or we can already ask ourselves how many of these volunteers will actually get a job, given that we know that market demand and supply are not in line. I have heard several times from the SDS that in our coalition agreement we did not talk about this problem, but in our coalition agreement there is an obligation to solve the problem of paid traineeships. We are aware of this situation and we have taken an active approach to solving this problem, but I stress that these are just extensions for concrete solutions that must be reflected in all the laws allowing unpaid volunteering. Here I would like to add another answer or clarification. I listened to my colleague Jelko Godec, who spoke about the case of traineeships in the public sector in education and the case of the director and candidate I also come from school, each director is responsible when someone comes to him to perform a volunteer internship with him to provide him with a mentor. [[…]] In order to be able to perform a professional examination, the candidate must keep a diary, have four appearances and also submit these performances when preparing for the professional examination. So I really don't know how this candidate passed this professional exam, but I can only say that it grieves me that I have heard that such directors exist with us, but I am convinced that they are in a minority and that there are not many if this is not the only case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u126	Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko, SDS, has the floor to prepare Mrs Erika Dekleva, SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u127	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice to meet you again. With the proposed amendment of the law, we would like in particular to abolish volunteer traineeships. Why? Because volunteering actually means exploiting the difficult situation of young people. In particular, because it is extremely difficult for them to get their first work experience and even their first job, although this means that these volunteers work as well as their fellow workers, much better than those who are employed there for their work, but do not receive payments. In many places volunteering is almost the only internship that is not paid for as a trainee. It is also common that, for example, you cannot pass a professional examination without ten months of work experience. Without an expert exam, you can’t even prepare for a job that may be offered, since this is one of the tendering conditions. So young people are left with no choice but to agree to this volunteer internship. Unfortunately, many have come even so far that young people have to do volunteer training on the waiting list so that they can get it after a certain period of time. Many young people, especially from certain professions today, are left with only two: either to accept a given situation and agree to this exploitation through volunteering or to start looking outside of Slovenia, as they may not get it in their profession. True, many young people do not think about it when they are enrolled in colleges, and somehow they do not have in mind whether they will be able to get a job when they graduate. It is only when they are in a certain stage of their graduation that many start to actually think about what their job prospects are. Unfortunately, this is precisely why more and more young people today decide and go abroad. We're even asking ourselves, what do we lose? We invest in young people for 20 years or more; we invest through kindergartens, we invest through primary schools, high schools, free study in colleges. And what do we get back? More and more young people are going abroad. We are therefore making a huge investment in the state budget. At some point when young people start investing back, when they get a job, when they buy things, they make families with us, a lot of them, especially those living along the border, you know that young people go abroad. In particular, in neighbouring Austria. This is a huge loss for the country. I see the greatest loss in the loss of those young people who are actually barely entering the labour market. With today's proposal for the Youth Act, we propose to abolish volunteer traineeships in order to encourage employers to hire trainees in the form of exemption from payment of contributions and thereby create a legal basis for adopting a policy of implementing traineeships in Slovenia. All of this with the aim of ending the exploitation of young people by volunteering, with the aim of enabling young people to work even during the duration of the traineeship, and with the aim of encouraging employers in Slovenia to recruit trainees. Finally, I am sure that the good ones who will prove themselves during the traineeship will also get a job in the future – if we are talking about companies here now, a different story may be in the public administration. Because anyway, every economist always says he doesn't want to forgive a good worker. So worried about your working relationship for an indefinite period, in which case I can't see. With all these goals, and also for young people in Slovenia to see a slightly brighter future and not to go abroad as mass, I really suggest that at least this draft at this stage, as it is, we support and build on it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u128	Mrs Erika Girl SMC has the floor to prepare Mrs Vojka Shergan SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u129	Thank you for your word. I would like to answer Mr Andrey Couch about compliance with the social partners. He asked which of the social partners disagreed with the abolition of volunteering. You probably know this because one year ago, as the then coalition partner, you had the opportunity to regulate the area of volunteering, including at the initiative of the Slovenian Youth Council, which you so often mention today – and you did not do so. One year ago, the Slovenian Youth Council held a round of talks and consultations in all the then parliamentary groups before the second reading of the new Labour Relations Act on the Home Committee and there was no hearing. It seems that there was no listening, but all the reasons were then the same as they are now. Some of these reasons were listed by my colleague Lilliana Kozlovich, and I will relate to her because I listened to her discussion very carefully and she convinced me. It may not be necessary at all to amend legislation so much; it is necessary to respect this legislation that we have, not to violate it and to exploit it; it is necessary to establish responsibility and punish offenders, even though it is the country's greatest violator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u130	Mr Andrej Chuš has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u131	I almost certainly have to respond to these words as a proposal for this law. A year ago we were certainly in the opposition, and I think the government of Alenka Bratušek was still in power, and I don't know what my role was back then. It is true, however, that the other Janšev government has added a lot of rights in the framework of the Labour Relations Act within the U.S.D., and I think it is right, given what has been going on in the last period, how a unified Slovenian policy is that it is necessary to resolve the issue of volunteer trainees, that it is the right time to step together and solve this. As far as law enforcement is concerned, I think everyone respects it, at least that volunteer trainee who gets paid travel expenses and lunch. Just assess whether this seems decent and morally also in this new policy style, that the volunteer trainee does not have income, but a refund on the costs to be able to work at all, EUR 100. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u132	Mrs. Vojka Shergan, SMC, has the floor. Let's get Dr. Jones ready. Franz Duck, United Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u133	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Since Mr Chuš said that he did not know or that he was in the coalition or how – but Mr Vizjak was your Minister for Work, your family when you adopted the Labour Relations Act, a new law. And this law also defines volunteer traineeships and has been consistent with the social partners. Now I'd like to add something myself about volunteering. Volunteer traineeships are used in our country, as we have found, most often in public administration, justice, education, education and health. We've heard that volunteer training is governed by individual sectoral laws. Volunteers are eligible only for material costs, such as transport costs for work, work and food. In the SMC Group, we agree that legislation governing volunteer traineeships must be regulated as a matter of urgency. I also believe that the purpose and purpose of the proposed law is good, but I cannot agree that they would therefore change the Labour Relations Act, as volunteer traineeships, as I have already mentioned, are the most common in the public sector, and the basis for implementing this traineeship is the sectoral laws. In doing so, I would stress in particular, like my predecessors, that there was a Labour Relations Act, I would point out once again that it was in line with the social partners, right during your government. At that stage of harmonisation of this law, none of the social partners has so far demanded that the possibility of volunteering be abolished. Social partners are those who know best the nature of work in certain activities or the specifics of a profession. They are those who, in a way, need to set a framework for the quality of traineeships in specific areas. Of course, in recent times it has been observed that volunteering is often not used in accordance with the purpose of the institute itself. If we just look at some of the public sector's calls in recent years, we can only wonder how this is even possible. I'll only point out two so I won't be too long. Let's start with the Anti-Corruption Commission. 31. 5. 2012 KPK published an invitation to four traineeships to carry out a volunteer traineeship for candidates with VII. the degree of legal or economic education. The subject of the invitation to tender was the holding of a volunteer training internship for self-employed work on the Commission in the field of the identification of suspected corruption, conflicts of interest, incompatibility, restrictions on the operation of property control, prohibition and restriction on the acceptance of gifts, lobbying, prevention and legal matters in the field of Commission work. Second case. In this invitation to tender from the former tax administration, which is 3. Seven. 2012 awarded 52 volunteer traineeships for VI. and VII. level of education. The benefits of volunteering were commented on by the Tax Administration: Volunteer trainees will gain knowledge, experience, and, finally, references that will benefit them in continuing their job search. Upon completion of the trainee training, Durs will pay them training for appointment to the title. Such individuals will undoubtedly be in a better position to find new jobs than their peers who will not have such work experience after their training. I come from the economy alone. I know how hard it is to earn for the wages of workers, how hard it is to invest in the training of a new employee, how much knowledge you have to put in each new one, even a young trainee, if you want to teach him professionally specific competences, but I never thought of not paying anyone for the job done, even though it would be a trainee or a first-time job seeker. As a result of this alarming situation in the area of volunteering, it is essential in the public sector that competent ministries prepare, as soon as possible, amendments to the sectoral laws which also regulate this area. However, I do not agree with the amendment to the Labour Relations Act, so I cannot agree with the proposed law, nor do I, because it seems to me that it is wrong for the law to somehow, I will say, aimfully, to invest in an infinite number of amendments. It is therefore right to harmonise the law or to prepare it for the competent ministry and then to try to adopt it in such a form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u134	Mr Andrej Chuš has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u135	Well, we don't know how many amendments we're talking about here. I think it's about three, and I don't know if that's a big deal. During this period, you have adopted many more harmful laws than number three. I'm sorry about that. During that period, I was just becoming a Deputy Member of the National Assembly, and unfortunately there was no consensus on how to arrange it. But I tell you that without our proposals to add at least travel costs and lunch, that would not be the case. Given that we are now assessing the proponents that there is consensus in policy – both in your coalition agreement and in our pre-election programme – we also proposed – we could only say: thank you. That you have such opposition to work for you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u136	Mr Dejan Levanič has the floor, State Secretary, Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u137	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! It seems important to me that we may say something already in the middle, given that there has been a lot of debate about how volunteer traineeships should be regulated in the future. However, it seems to me that there is a fairly clear consensus here in the Chamber that volunteer traineeships are simply not acceptable and that it is also necessary to provide decent pay for work. First of all, what is this proposal, whether it is systemic or not, is it necessary to know that the U.S.R. is a statutory law in the field of labour relations, which does not govern volunteer traineeships, but regulates the rights of a volunteer trainee. If you ask legal services, she will tell you clearly that the system of volunteer training with the U.S.R. is not being trained. But this is not as important as the fact that we want volunteer traineeships to be regulated. How to deal with it is once again a very important issue. First, we agreed that we wanted to pay them so that they would have some payment for the work they would do and then we would have to look under sectoral legislation at who needs compulsory traineeships at all, so that they could enter not only the educational process, but when they step out of the educational process in order to obtain the opportunity to take the vocational exam and later work. There was a lot of debate about whether the law was in line with the social partners and that it should be. That's right! In principle, the Labour Law also aligns itself with the social partners, which is right. Since there was a debate on this earlier, show me a social partner who would oppose the abolition of volunteer traineeships – because there was no debate on this. Of course, no one supports volunteering, but not in this way. This is the only debate here today in the National Assembly, but in the end you are Members and Members of Parliament who are enacting legislation, and the Government is forced to say things the way they are, and on the other hand to carry out things that will finally, as we will look at a little historical review, volunteer traineeships arranged in a way that will also be paid. The debate has repeatedly mentioned that insufficient funding has been provided for paid traineeships. In the past — indeed, many governments in the public sector have not allocated financial resources to pay or sufficient financial resources to pay trainees. We are not only within the Youth Guarantee, where funds are not allocated only for 2015 and 2016, a fixed amount for 2015 and 2016, and in the overall financial perspective for more than 24 million for paid traineeships. In the Youth Guarantee, we made it clear that we want paid traineeships to enable the private sector, the economy, because we all say many times in this Chamber that it is necessary to help the economy so that it can employ young people. Why? Let's just see how many young people enter the labour market every year. Such an economy as today cannot absorb all these young people, but in the public sector, the blockade of employment or employment is minus one. We have two segments in the employment of young people who are talking to each other, and there will be a debate in the National Assembly very soon on what to do with employment in the public sector: whether to continue such a policy or change the story so that we can start to involve the younger generations slowly. So – in the Youth Guarantee this part. The second part of the public sector is that those who propose such laws need to know what is going on in the public sector, and you need to know how many traineeships paid today exist in the field of health and social protection. But maybe a little later. In this regard, one thing that is very important to me is: the Labour Relations Act – when it was said earlier that the Government is deceiving in some way because it says that someone is taking certain rights by means of this proposal. We're not talking about that. But once you abolish the rights that are written down or delete the rights that are enshrined in the Labour Relations Act, which today brings to volunteer trainees, then you get into a situation where volunteer training in the field law still exists, and the volunteer trainee loses his rights. It is true that the following provision is to apply the Labour Relations Act in all other sectoral legislation and in this field legislation, these volunteers differ significantly. And then what? When I hear in this room that this is a gift to young people, the abolition of volunteering, by not having an answer, what then. To pay for their internships? To finance their traineeships by exempting them from the payment of their contributions? Then what are we gonna do? Someone's gonna be a trainee for the rest of their lives? Since the trainee is not bound to the year in which he enters, he is bound to the first job. Just as our business has escalated with independent entrepreneurs, so will we. It is said that anyone who sees the possibility of a subsidy or the exemption of contributions to trainees will, of course, use this model; and a man trainee may have an employee for one year and then a new trainee and so on. We will come up with a solution that is not nearly real in the labour market. Why the intervention law, why do we insist on the intervention law in the exemption from payment of contributions? Because we want to promote employment for an indefinite period of time. For an indefinite period! This is one of the key things, including changing your mindset. I think that one day earlier it was said that the Employment Relations Act mentions employment for a certain period of time only in certain cases. Of course, but our thinking in the economic field is also not going in this direction to be employed indefinitely. Our initiative in this segment certainly does not solve all problems, but it does give us a message that will also go as a call to the other ministries when technical assistance occurs in the context of drawing on European funds, that young people do not have to be employed for a certain period of time for these seven years, but for the new U.S.R., and that the applicant might know that, for an indefinite period of time, because after the end of this project, it is possible to forgive the project because it has ended. However, if we hire him for a certain period of time, we will allow him much more security than ever. So, a change of mind, not such a way of saving and especially promoting that it is a gift for young people. Far from it! The young will not be saved today. Even if we delete volunteer traineeships in the U.S., there will be 800 in the public administration waiting for further solutions. So, okay, we provide funding for them, we allow these traineeships to be paid, and then they have to be provided with jobs. The job today is highly dependent on employment in the public sector, which is blocked. This is how we want to – not encourage, not convince or, after all, advise the ministries, that is the task and that is clear from the Government's conclusions. I can read you a bunch of conclusions from the government meetings during your government when even more inconclusive conclusions have been reached, but this is how government decisions are taken. The second conclusion is clear: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support volunteer traineeships in the public sector." Pika! If someone takes advantage of it and employs it or makes a relationship with a volunteer internship, anyone will be able to pull this document out and say that someone is working against the government or that the government has a fig in his pocket. This was now a clear guide. No one has ever given this instruction! Not even a proposaler who has had a chance to settle this area in the past, but he is not. But it is always regulated when it is in opposition, and this is the problem in our policy – we regulate things when we are in opposition, we propose changes to laws when we are in opposition. It is then possible to propose very quickly simple solutions, which are not simple, but on the other hand cause more problems. The amendment to the Labour Relations Act entered into force in 2013. I told the speaker earlier and rightly said that there was an additional right to lunch and transport for the Institute of Volunteer Trainee in the U.S.D. But if the purpose of the proposal were to be honest, today that the volunteer traineeship is suspended, when their proposal to "how" abolishes volunteer traineeships, this institution would have been deleted by 2013 or 2012, when the law was in coordination. And when there is a little more honesty about how we want to help young people to be hired to give them an opportunity, it is important to know that today we are talking about 800 people in the public sector who will need to be helped through paid traineeships; that we are talking about a much larger problem, the problem of long-term unemployed young people. 51% of all unemployed young people are long-term unemployed, which means that they are in the employment agency for a year or more and are out of the system, which in 2012, when unemployment among these young people increased by more than 10% – you did not report to Parliament and said they needed to be resolved and proposed measures to be taken to resolve them. We will also come to the point where I will tell the results of the Youth Guarantee, which we have started to implement through the measures for which we have been praised in the European Commission, and this is not the reason for praise now. By the time we have the results that there are many young employees, someone will be able to reach into our hands and tell us that we have done our job. We're not there today. In the private sector, volunteering is prohibited. Under the Labour Relations Act, volunteer traineeships are prohibited. But I know we have information that young people are running to employers themselves because they have no other option. This is because there is simply no employment, neither in the economy nor in the public sector. And those in the National Assembly today who say that everything needs to be done to get a job for the young need to look at the real picture. 35,000 of them enter the labour market, the economy cannot absorb them, but somehow they will also have to be helped in the public sector, because we also have annual differences now in certain ministries where the youngest are strong in 30 years. The measure of exemption from contributions adopted through the intervention law and today was an initiative to extend this to all, on the other hand – and please keep that in mind when the measures are being taken. Believe me, the easiest thing to do is to raise the financial resources, which are so much for information at the Ministry, we draw 99%, and we are the most effective in this area, we draw them all out just to channel financial resources as effectively as possible towards youth employment. We have some results, some measures will have to be changed, but when we propose one thing, we propose it very carefully. If you accept such a proposal to support the exemption of contributions to trainees, believe me that each other in Slovenia will become a trainee and then we will have an even bigger problem. Today, the economy under the Labour Relations Act can pay the trainee at least 70% of the salary for a specific job. So it already has the option of so-called subsidies, and the minimum that it has to give it is, of course, a minimum wage. Thus, in this segment, support for the economy to introduce a young person into the job already exists through the traineeship. Let's not talk about training in the workplace and a test in the workplace. One of the most effective measures now taken by the economy is because they can get a young person for a month, two or three and they can test him in this segment in a specific job and see whether he is right for them or not. We will still have to change this measure because we have certain initiatives on their part, but we will, we will do and we will adapt to what is on the table. Just for a little while, because there will certainly be a debate in the future and I will be happy to comment on some more. It is important to know that this moment for the Youth Guarantee measures has been split up so far – although there is no new financial perspective yet to be drawn up and that we have done everything we can to tear down where possible, even because 2012 has dramatically increased our youth unemployment – it has been distributed 3.5 million euros, and we are preparing all projects so that when the system is put in place, it is also up to the service that will manage it to start drawing immediately. From fax follows practice – the first challenge and mentoring schemes follow immediately after the new year with new additional funding. However, we also needed time in agreement with the Ministry of Finance to redistribute the additional funds for which we received the green light and start these measures again in January, which also give very good results. Maybe it's just in a clean number. Three thousand 500 young people have been hired for this subsidy — the first challenge of the Mentoring Scheme. We are now around 3,000 numbers of youth employment for an indefinite period, this is this intervention law, which in the first nine months brought the result there 2 000 500, now 3 000. However, we would like to come up with the economy and also with you with any additional action that we can take with active employment policy to the extent that we are helping young people in some way. We cannot create jobs in all these subsidies, but we are helping those with major problems in the system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u138	The word is from Dr. Franc Trček, United Left, prepare Mr Simon Zajc, SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u139	Thank you for your word, chairman. I'm listening to all this debate, and I'm getting more and more sad. At the start, I can say that the United Left does not look through the light, who proposed this proposal, because if we went to see what all the other parties who are in here are beautiful – including you, Mr President – were talking about the United Left, then we would be against all the laws, except those and amendments that we would have proposed. That's another thing. We have here one problem that is essentially a disgrace; it sounds like a volunteer internship. It is a shame that this is happening in the public sector, a shame that this is happening in private. Let's say, if I remember six months ago, a year ago, when a gentleman from a pianist marketing network seemed to himself a dude and put on a website to let some young beauty come to him at a volunteer internship, and if she's good, he'll take her to a sandwich for lunch. It seems to me that we already have enough legislation to use this word, Mr President, to hold onto the eggs and to hold it well. We are not interested in the archeology of this disgrace, who is ever, who is not, how is not, how is not, how is not, we are fortunately a party, a coalition that has just come to Parliament, and could also prepare an expert to go and watch 20 years ago and exercise. [[…]] During all this debate, I remember some of the protests that one of them said, maybe a little too much, a wake where young people had banners that said, "No one represents us." This debate today is a very beautiful expression and a display of this. If we have some regulations that legitimize traineeships, there must also be a financial part of that, my colleague Lisec spoke about where this would come from. I am a sociologist, sociologist, colleague Milana is also a gentleman who turned social, probably Svetlik, to teach that there are professions and professions. For professions you need a license, you need a professional exam. If I go down the road and someone gets an epileptic attack, I'll help him, let alone a doctor. Politics is also a profession and you might also need training, perhaps volunteering to see. All those who are against this law now would suggest that, until you adopt a better law, you, both in executive power and in the coalition, are volunteering to continue. I have a lot of students, I have little contact with them, but you know, I'm not in their skin, I'm from those better times, and my colleague is, when we were young researchers, we had wages, what generation fifteen years before we got the apartment – this is now some completely third universe. Volunteer traineeships are also a great inequality of opportunity. You can't know, you're studying something serious, you're barely ripping it off, and then you have an internship, and if you're not exactly from the capital or from the city halls, are you going to live under the bridge and eat pot? [[…]] The same thing is with scholarships, three, four months to get bored, students living in the air at the time. And Secretary of State, somehow you're talking the way – here, I'm going to have to repeat myself out – out. Things need to be resolved and – and! True, we have a crazy problem with falling asleep in the development model. A colleague from SMC said that there was a discrepancy between supply and demand. I think so! And every country that gives itself something is also dealing with some employment policies! Otherwise, we can dissolve and the invisible end of the market will work itself. The lady who went out will somehow be very happy about this. Very tight, the only one in this House, colleague Andrej is likely to cut back on the way out. We still think like monadas, the public sector is not just a cost, the public sector is also creating – and profit, you will not believe. It seems to me that we must, I will be foucaultic, open this public sector, including the private sector. Also watch where we've been giving grants to some companies, if it's better to throw that money out the window from this Parliament. We have to deal with these things! So that I don't spend all my time on my colleague Violeta, who's going to say something else -- we're going to back this up. There is a starting point that is not genius, it is at first reading, it will go to the committee, and it saddens me that there is no Minister of Economy here. Now to conclude, I want to read something from a book that we all got: Dear Jancar, This night I saw it, page 112: "Man does not follow the things that he did, but those that he did not. Which I could or could at least try to do, but they're not." Think about it when you think about quitting volunteering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u140	Mr Simon Zajc has the floor to prepare Mr Franz Jurša, DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u141	Thank you for your word, lovely greeting. Lately, we are getting a lot of proposals and laws and amendments and initiatives that everyone is solving, something that we all want to solve together: either one problem or one group that is in trouble, or one person even in trouble. Of course, when you look at it, you can't help but say that it's actually a good initiative; it's also well promoted, it's well placed, the media supports it, it solves a lot of these things, it solves the things that we've committed ourselves to in the coalition agreement to save them. And you're hard against it; until you look a little deeper then and you see that you can't support it, even though that's the way it is – because it wants to save what you want to save, but when you go to look at it, you can't support it. For example, in this case we are solving things in the wrong law: things that we all want to support, that we have found to be problematic, that they are not right, but that you cannot support them. The other thing that bothers me about this law, or that worries me, is that it copies the measure in the Law on Labour Market Intervention Measures and Parental Protection – I mean, the meaning of this measure translates into this law. Like the Secretary of State said, there's a problem. Here again, the window opens that you, as an employee, will suddenly rotate your apprentices for each year, for which you will not have to pay your contributions. This measure is problematic here, but the law on intervention measures is not problematic because there is a condition for you to hire it for an indefinite period of time. We cannot promote this in this way in this law. The next thing — and I will conclude with this — is that the government regulates this area. It's not going that fast, because as we've heard, you have to look at a lot of things. Of course, it is possible to put on a table the amendment of one article, the additions of one article and to expect and promote that this will save everything, only we all know that this will not solve it in this way. It is only necessary to amend the sectoral laws. I'm sorry I'm just gonna have to vote against that. I am not voting against these solutions, but I am voting on the way these solutions are.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u142	Mr Franz Jurša, DeSUS, has the floor. Get Violeta Tomić ready, United Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u143	Thank you for your word, President. After this discussion, I think there is almost nothing more to say because we are actually changing this section of the Labour Relations Act 24 and we are not able to say much about it, only to repeat ourselves by quoting those conclusions that the Government has adopted, that we are talking about what this article 24 is saying, we are adding a little bit more, some are even talking about student work, they are calling on Desus, etc. That's right. I think you have a good feeling that you can convince us that we are in this party, in the parliamentary group, of a good proposal. Well, that's interesting. I would like to commend you for proposing this amendment to the law. Above all, I would like to commend you for the fact that I am confident that in the near future we will also deal with these matters systematically. In a way, you've given this government some kind of injection to do that. Now a little to remind myself that we would not forget – the near future. Mr Andrej Chuš must remember this. He's young, it would be for me to forget, kind of normal, but not for him. This Labour Relations Act was prepared by the then minister with his team called – you will help me, Andrej. And Andrew, too, right? That's how Andrew made it. One government in which we, like Desus, sat, was, and was, in that old labour law, written down, and we could have changed that at the time. But you know, one big difference is sitting in the government and sitting in the opposition. I have to say that I have sometimes wanted to be an opposition Member, but I had a very short chance to be – a few months. Then I could tell you everything I thought our voters would like. But when you're in the coalition, you just have to understand things differently. Look, with this proposal to stop volunteering, I completely agree, and I think we will do this systematically. Why do I agree? Look, in 1974, imagine, I was an intern. I did my internship at the time, and I'm not going to say what regime, so I got an interesting salary, and I was very proud. Do you know what I bought for that first prize? I'll buy you a tablecloth! And look how old that is! I remember well, and probably these interns who don't get it are relatively very sad. And a little something for the Secretary of State. Yes, Secretary of State, that's right: we in the National Assembly adopt laws, but you prepare laws in the executive branch. Of course we expect from you who are [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, it was just prepared in one of the parliamentary groups. [[…]] But you also have a large bureaucrat machine, an expert camera, to tell you who's helping you here. We are representatives of this people here, we are also perhaps from a certain area of ignorance and we need the expertise to teach us to drive us through these chakras, which could actually harm Slovenian people, is said to be people we simply support in the National Assembly. These novels of the law, because it is too modest, must be systemic, I will not support them, but I am sure that this proposal is an incentive for the government to prepare these solutions for sure.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u144	The word is Violeta Tomic, United Left. Get Mr. Jean Mahnic ready, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u145	Thank you for your word. As we have heard many times today with those who agree with the proposal and disagree with the proposal, we all agree that the volunteer traineeship is becoming a modern-day slave, and that is indeed true. It is also true that this is a shameful practice, especially because it is often the only possible solution for young people to gain at least a few work experience. Of course, only those who can afford free work are entitled to such an option, as the rich’s children are once again called. Preparation should be the beginning of the career of young graduates and graduates. Under the guidance of the mentor, young people should acquire the knowledge they need to carry out their profession and should also have the opportunity to work indefinitely after their training. Of course, the real picture isn't like that. Young people are always in a more difficult situation. After completion of the study, they are less and less fortunate to find a suitable job that allows them to become financially independent and stand on their feet. More and more of them are being carried out in a way that they do not offer financial autonomy and the necessary security. To address this problem, the abolition of volunteering is the first step that needs to be taken as soon as possible. In addition to the abolition of this unpaid form of work, the State should also provide for those young people who are subject to the conditions of access to the examination – of course for a decent payment. Sooner or later, the government will also have to accept the fact that saving everything does not have any positive consequences, and this huge exodus of youth has brought a lot of negative effects on young people in recent years. As has already been said, I will support the proposal to continue the consideration of the proposal, despite the fact that it may not be ideal and best at this time. I do not believe that the introduction of the exemption to pay contributions in case of traineeships is necessary, since they are already entitled to payment of at least 70 % of the basic salary, which is a kind of relief. Well, of course, most of them do not make it because most of them do unpaid traineeships. In addition, this encourages employers to replace traineeships after the end of the traineeship with new traineeships, as this pays them more. However, since this can be improved or changed in the course of the legislative process, I will therefore support the proposal at first reading, although I am concerned about the position of the coalition, which plays in terms of: if you do not play my way, I do not play with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u146	Thank you. Mr. Jean Mahnič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u147	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues who are still in the hall at this hour are warmly greeted! I am glad that, if not another, we have at least unified ourselves that volunteer traineeships are by no means acceptable. I am also pleased that, if not the other, the Slovenian Democratic Party has managed at least a little to persuade the Government to finally do something in this area, even though it is only copying our law and putting it in there, we will support it. Now in this novel we are just laying the basis for payment, we know that they are now volunteering, with this novel we are laying the basis for payment. That is why we have put this proposal into first reading because we expected a positive response, that at least here, at this first reading, we will support this proposal and that we will later hold a debate so that we can also invite the social partners. By the way, we will now – I hope – soon – be able to get a youth representative in the Economic and Social Council, as the Committee on Education has adopted unanimously for the last time. Unfortunately, according to the debates, we will not come to a second reading, and words or omissions appear here on the other hand. You said there would then be a need for coordination with various sub-laws; but whoever has now read this paper can see that it is in Article 4 that we are harmonising the harmonisation of all sub-legislative acts. The discussion was also about these eight hundred who are currently doing what will happen to them if we accept our proposal if we accept the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party. The rights of those who have already done so are not erased due to retroactivity. The proposal also states that this novelty applies only to new contracts. I have heard that we are solving problems too quickly I don't know, volunteering, it has been a long time since we provided these volunteers with a government run by the Slovenian Democratic Party, at least lunch and travel costs. [[…]] It has been a while, and today we come up with this proposal — what is fast for you or what is slow for you? I listen to these words, once I have time, I will go right to see what word or what was said in the National Assembly by the coalition several times: whether John Janša or Systematicity: Unsystematicity? It's not just about young people, you've heard it's not just about young people, so I was counting on Desus to support this. I'm glad you're at least welcoming her, because I know that even the elderly, the mothers of grandchildren, are happy to rip off some part of your hard-earned pension and give it to young people. I believe that if the traineeship were paid, we could save some euro for ourselves. I have also heard that the trainee is a burden; this is the typical thinking of a lady who has worked her entire life in the public sector. That a trainee is a burden! If the lady couldn't give a trainee another job in public administration as coffee making, unfortunately, I can't help her. I went to the field during the election campaign, and I also asked employers when I went to economics, what their opinion was on the trainees. Everyone said that this matter was only welcomed because we come from school well-bred mainly with professional knowledge, and we lack those practical educations. And in this year, many employers, those who have created a job themselves, those who want to grow their business, will in some way, if I may say so, at the expense of the state, also have a professional or practical training of a trainee. Believe me, he who is a good master will not then throw such a trainee on the road after one year and hire another because he has already invested some energy and knowledge in one year for practically educating him. However, I believe there are many who take advantage of this matter. This is why it is not possible to mix Youth Guarantees and traineeships here, because the aim of the Slovenian Democratic Party is to make it as easy for young people to move to the labour market as possible, the aim is to get the job and traineeships to get to know their work habits as soon as possible, and then to continue to work. Our goal is not to let a young man who has been there for a year show up and take a new one. That is why I would really expect – I have even heard that, on the one hand, the proposal is good, but that it is expected that the government will approach it. Support me, please. Then at least let's talk on the boards. Still, if it is not your will, you will be able to reject it with these 53 or 54 votes of the majority you have. I read the coalition contract. It said that traineeships were unacceptable, but on September 10th, the Ministry of Education again called for new volunteer traineeships. Yeah, I know it was eight days before we confirmed your government, anyway. Here is the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs or – I apologize – the Minister for Education, on a written question from our Members, when she wondered how she would follow up with these trainings: "The Ministry of Education, Science and Sport intends to lead a similar policy in the field of organised traineeship with a closed working relationship in the future." So, despite the commitments made in the coalition contract and despite the Ministry's invitation to volunteer traineeships, these traineeships will continue. On the one hand, we have the reply of Minister of Education, on the other hand Mr Levanič, to fight volunteering. Trust who? Or are the Ministers of the Peace Cerar Party or the Minister or her Secretary of the Social Democrats? I would ask you to at least coordinate here, unless you leave an agreed space of manoeuvre with this, if it comes to this or that, so that you can say, because we wrote Mrs Godec that way or because we told you so to the Members. Okay; we're talking, we're talking, we're talking. If I am not mistaken, she will be in March two years after the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs will be Minister. And what was arranged at that time to end these volunteer traineeships? Again, I wonder how long it will take for them to be gone. Will we talk about this again next year in December, or will it be sooner? I hope it will be sooner – I can see that one of the Members is giving me a nod. There's too much talk in this country. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have decided that, despite the fact that there will be a government for three months now and with the exception of the balance of the budget and the agreement with the trade unions, some surpluses would not be expected – we will continue to make laws. If they are willing or willing to cooperate with us, you can confirm them, and we can discuss them. We're always constructive, ready to talk. We already proved it yesterday, and you didn't last support two of our amendments. That's how I think we can come together on some sort of thing. And if anywhere, the youth are the subject that we should come to together, but not – you know, the opposition has proposed, we will say that it is okay, but we will not support it. If this is the way the coalition works, as Mr Jurša said before, I am the opposition Member, but if I understand correctly, if I are coalition, I think one thing, then I must vote or say what I think, but I vote differently. I really ask that when you do this, you will also take these proposals into account. There are no harmful intentions, either on the one hand or on the other, when the volunteer traineeship is abolished. Last but not least, I believe you all know if you don't already have your own who are doing these internships. Today, when I visited one of these public institutions, I spoke to one of these interns. Believe me, when it has been working for eight months in such a way that it all passes away and that it does not believe any more the debates we have here in Parliament. As a Member, I did not make an excuse, but I said, "We are proposing this today. You are invited to watch the debate, and when you vote tomorrow, you will be able to see who are those who advocate for young people, and who are those who are taking the stand, but will act a little later." Dear coalition, I suggest you, tomorrow, when we vote on this matter to support this law, but to support our proposal. You will still be able to reject it and thus satisfy what you already need to by rejecting the law. At the same time, I call on you to say here that such practice will no longer continue, that it will then be implemented and that in this country we will stop with these topics or work in such a way as not to seek only excuses. To prevent that from happening, it is not possible to do so, but finally to do something — both for young people and for everyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u148	Thank you. Mr Dejan Levanič, State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u149	Thank you for your word. We agree that it is likely that all those who will be deprived of the possibility of carrying out a particular traineeship at a certain point at a certain point in time should be regulated in the sectoral laws so that each minister – and I agree with that – can say where this traineeship is even mandatory, given that this makes it impossible for someone to enter a professional path. I agree. It's not right that there's 700 at school and a few other volunteer traineeships. It's not easy because it's a so-called gravel hole where there's no money to hire young teachers or teachers or anyone who works in school. Why can I tell you that we are serious about this; because in our area, in the field of social protection, our students – that is, students of the Faculty of Social Work, some others, sociologists and others are involved in this system of traineeships – have the condition at all to join the vocational examination to carry out this internship. We are paying for these traineeships; we are paying them, at the moment, from European funds, because we simply do not have enough money to do this. Today we have sat with students and we want to settle this in the long run so that every year there will be no debate on how we will provide these funds. Another problem arises that we can include them according to the needs, but a certain number, while now 300 or more are waiting for them to come to these traineeships at all, so that they can join the examination and get a job because there are no jobs in the public sector. This problem will have to be solved, so our efforts, the ministry that started this debate in the first place – and believe me, there is no great deal of affection for the abolition of these volunteer trainees. But I think it's important that we keep going full. This will be a problem or a challenge for ministries to find solutions to make these young people actually employ. Also in health care, one part of the trainees is financed by the Health Board, health insurance, so that funding can be found through the segments for the recruitment of these trainees. Step one, let's say it was made. The second step in finding financial resources should not be a problem when we say that the work of someone or a young person is to be paid. Step Three — Where Will They Find Employment? This is a challenge for all sectors, for all areas and how to enable young people who are entering the education system today, which describes certain jobs, how they can actually cash this education in the labour market. Just one more comparison. Speaking of traineeships, when we say we can't compare them with the Youth Guarantee. We need to be aware that in the structure of the economy is the First Challenge, for example, Employment and entrepreneurship, modernisation of the traineeship system, which now stimulates the precise structure of young people for something they like, and in this way we encourage, subsidise and help them. Secondly, I agree, there is a problem in the public sector. What has been done seriously so far in the field of health. Because if you look at the information, I think that now there are only four volunteers in the field of health. I agree there must be nothing, but there they regulate this promotion of employment from the financial resources they have. I also have problems in the area of social protection, but there remain problems in the field of law enforcement, in the field of education, and this will simply have to be addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u150	Thank you. Mr Andrej Chus has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u151	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would thank Mr Jurša for these, we can say what the wise words are, but the conclusion of this meeting will definitely be that we all agree that we have opened the real problem in the parliamentary group, we have proposed the right law, but that the problem is that we are in opposition. I have already been in one of the previous discussions, which was a little longer, but I regret not having so much time, at least not in this context, for the debate, I would like to say that the Government has not adopted exactly any specific deadline until when it will put this systemic solution into the National Assembly. Although it has already been said, on our part, by several Members, that this is a systemic measure, because in any case it is the Labour Relations Act that regulates these matters. You can look at Article 124 of the Labour Relations Act and those who have debated that this is not true, I hope that at least at the next meeting you will discuss it differently. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that European funds for volunteers in public administration are unlikely and will not be able to be absorbed. This is also recalled by the youth sector, which is unified and critical to the words and conclusions adopted by the Government. They said it was nice that something was accepted, but nothing binding, binding, no promises, and it's problematic. Of course it is. Young people have been promised a lot in the past, but unfortunately to this day, there may have been some kind of candy here, and to a large extent they have not moved more than the debts they will pay — for this situation today. By shutting down these volunteer volunteers, we would provide young people with a salary, all other rights, working hours, and thus definitely make it easier for young people to make up for themselves. I mentioned before, in Slovenia we are the second of all the countries of the European Union, how late we are to conquer ourselves. Two-thirds of young people up to the age of 34, and so it was in the research, this is last year's data, living with their parents at home. I don't think that's what we're fighting for. It will be necessary to do something and the problem of young people is neither left nor right; it is all of us, our future, and I am quite disappointed that there is not at least some consensus to confirm the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party law. We have already addressed this issue in the past. Although I did get some readings myself, this and this and this — but, look. We have estimated that there is finally a political consensus in the National Assembly for the abolition of volunteer traineeships. Look, we're in the opposition, we're monitoring, we're monitoring the government's work, and that's our job. If we have assessed that too much talk and too little work, we have taken action ourselves, I think we have prepared a corrective, constructive proposal for the law, but you have all somehow defined yourself – the most sad thing is that those who were the most critical have stood up and left after the presentations, but the fact is also, Mr Jurša said that the Government must work. At the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs we have a minister for two years, and if she has not managed to create authority during this period to make these things right, then we can be concerned. She must receive the support of the Government, the Prime Minister of the Government, to say that this is a problem – let's go into action! Ampa, of course, two years! Then we expect to have a solution in two months? I'm skeptical, and probably after you know it, when you hear it, it's one of you. To blackmail and exploit something — that is not true at all! As a result of this, we have introduced the law into the first reading, that the National Assembly should hold a general debate and if we confirm it – but I am sure that you will follow your will and confirm sufficient support – we will go to the second reading, the Labour Committee, the Family, the Social Affairs and the Disabled – and invite the social partners, the professional public, to come together and prepare the best possible solution. But if that's not enough, then I really don't know what's enough. We could do things like government practice, and at least at the Ministry of Finance somewhere else, we have now adopted all the laws by emergency procedure. And that's real practice? Are you trying to set such an example for us to make a proposal for a law, a quick debate, and toss each other's averages? I don't think that's the right way. I guarantee you, and I promise you that if there is not enough support for this proposal for the Labour Relations Bill tomorrow at the vote, I will also promise and announce to the Minister of Labour and the Secretary of State, we will put an even better law in January, and I believe that you will have a lump in your throat if you do nothing. I am also sure that the debate will be much better, because today, as many as half of the panellists on the side of the coalition have given up and gone home. This is not the way, today a good substantive debate has been held here and I regret that there has been no more. I also appeal to the Secretary of State: enough words, let's do something, two years at the Ministry – there should be concrete results already. I recognise that, at least in the framework of the Youth Guarantee, but I do not think it is the main intention to refer young people to social support and the increasing role of the State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u152	Thank you. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. If you would also like to discuss the representative of the proposal's proposal for the Andrej Chuš Act and the representative of the Government, please apply with a raise of hands. Please, for your application. Each debater has five minutes of time available. Mr. Bojan Podkoršek has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u153	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I think you'll all agree with me in this room that we're not here to make trouble, but to solve problems. I am of the opinion that the draft law we are talking about today is a problem for young people. Now that I have listened to the distinguished secretary at the Ministry, I must admit that I do not doubt his abilities, but when he says everything so beautifully, it seems to me that if people listen to it, they think that only a little more in this country will have to be counted. But of course, problems remain. Today we are talking about the problems of young people. I am of the opinion that if the internship is necessary, I do not want to go into it because it is a school course, then let this internship be paid. Let me give you an example of two respected citizens who completed the Faculty of Health in Maribor. One of these two decided — because we had heard a lot about Switzerland this morning — to go to Switzerland. Of course, she didn't have to do traineeships, so she can do her specialty right away. Of course, the citizens of Switzerland are certainly pleased to have received an educated person who will make a specialisation and will be able to work for the benefit of the citizens and citizens of the country I have mentioned. We, Slovenia, have been trained by a respected citizen. Her classmate stayed home, got her internship, didn't get her specialty. There is a difference between these two respected ones who have gone through a thorny path, like all their schoolmates and schoolmates. Don't make me think. I spoke to an economist today, and I was also interested in his opinion. He's been hiring over 120 people for two decades and more, and he says that when a student enters his company, he pays for it because he feels that way. He would be ashamed to be involved in the metal industry, a graduate engineering engineer who also traveled through the thorny road, including his parents, who were counting the euro each month, that he had a student home, that he had lunch, that he had the things he needed for schooling. And when such a student – Mr Jurša said well earlier, the leader of the DeSUS Group, what he bought for the trainee’s salary – he can’t wait to start working and to start serving, but he’s no longer a burden to his parents, here I am referring to the financial salary. Therefore, I am sure that I am in favour of paying for this traineeship. Since we are mostly new Members in this Chamber, I call for us to sleep and confirm this law by tomorrow, and in the meantime we will complete it. I am also sure that if there were an economic minister and five economists sitting next to the secretary today, we would be convinced that all 90 Members would vote in favour tomorrow. Since that is not possible, I suggest you, fellow Members of the Council, because tomorrow morning may be a little time, and everyone in their community should call a single economist and ask him for an opinion on the law that we discussed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u154	Thank you. I propose that we replace Dr. Trčko and Mrs. Jelko Godec on the basis of an agreement. Can I? The word is Mrs. Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u155	Thank you very much to my colleague for his replacement and the president for having approved this. I'll make it short. Indeed, I was encouraged by the Secretary-General's thinking or debate in his previous work when he said that if we were sincere, we would propose otherwise. Look, we were honest before the elections and now. Before the elections, we had in the programme that there is no more volunteering, and now we are honest when we propose to stop volunteering. We don't threaten these 800 students, don't be afraid, you know that you don't. Even in the fourth indent of this novel, it is well written that we want or urge the Government to regulate the other laws that contain this volunteer internship. I agree with you — yes, there is a difference between volunteering in one area and in another, and this needs to be regulated in the field. This is also what we want to do with this novel. I don’t think it’s fair — well, just like that — to tell us that we’re not honest or that you’re wondering about our honesty when we propose this law. For the first time, I am a Member of Parliament, and, you know, at least in my group, I have not experienced anything going beyond this honesty or that some matter would not be honestly proposed or spoken of, in any way. At the same time – as Mr Jurša has already told you – the government is proposing laws and we confirm them. It is not for us to blaspheme that it is we Members who bring the laws through. Yeah, let's confirm them or not. After all this discussion, I see that we have set you on fire, as well as the Government, to start working on this and there will be no more of these words "we will study as soon as possible", because I also know that your Minister was sharp at the hearing and said she was against volunteering. I like that, and I believe at least at your ministry you'll do everything you can to keep this from happening. However, I would ask you to align yourself with the other ministries in view of how you have already heard twice what response I have received from the Ministry of Education to continue to do so. And I think if the government makes a deal, then that's what's going on with all the ministers. As far as the other debaters are concerned. They say it's a good thing they don't want volunteering and then they take our novel and they say, "But when I look at it, I can't support it." But nothing further! Did something jump out or something? Nobody's saying anything about why. Arguments. He only says twice that when he looks at it, he can't support it. Next time you say you can't support something, at least an argument to get it. I think that it was from two Members today, but it's just that when they look at it, it doesn't work and it's not substantive. I also appeal to all of you to reconsider this, and if you all really agree that young people should no longer do volunteer training, then confirm this law and that it is going to be discussed further. Thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u156	Thank you. Mr Uroš Prikl has the floor now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u157	Vice President, thank you very much. I have argued that I see the obstacle in myself personally – but my colleague no longer listens to me – especially in this, and you can check it with your Minister, former Minister, Mr Visiak. For a long time, the ZDR has coordinated with the social partners in the Economic and Social Council, and if now so partial, I will not say easily, please, so partially reach into this law, it will not be okay on the side of trade unions, but especially on the side of employers. I think that's the main reason, but I'm not going to mention it anymore, because I believe you've understood my other arguments. I was in a bit of a hurry earlier because I thought my fellow Members would be able to say something and then they checked out. I wanted to point out two things: deregulation of professions, check this option. I think the government also realizes that it can be, or it is, a stumbling block in the existing labour market. Secondly, measures to reduce labour market segmentation. One measure is already, I believe there will be more. In particular, this segmentation particularly affects young people, and I think that in these two matters, we have not said a single word on these two points today. I believe the government has this in mind, of course. As it is said, I expect in all these decisions, which the Government has imposed on the ministries, and especially the Ministry of Labour, I expect one timepiece, and given that it will not interfere directly with the U.S.R., there is no need for long-term coordination and I believe that it can be very fast, absolutely, for my taste and for my behaviour, this sectoral legislation has already been amended in the first half of the year. And I expect that, by the way, too. Of course, there's another thing. Just a few changes that make the cubes, the dominoes, or the dominoes run — I don’t know if it’s okay. Look, at this point, according to the data we got, there's over 800 people doing volunteer internships. I think in the next phase we need to have some wake up. I told you, in a way, I regret or am not happy with some of my past decisions and actions that I have also served as Secretary-General at the Ministry of Health. Also check with your colleague, Mr. Speaker. I didn't get the consent of the ZUJF – by the way, it wasn't so much the Speaker's fault, the ZUJF was guilty, and the Speaker was the Secretary-General, and he didn't put the point on my agenda and I didn't get the consent. [[…]] I didn't get an agreement on replacement jobs, not on student work, not on paid forms of work. It's a story. As far as my colleague Jurša is concerned, he's obviously paid for this internship 40 years ago, and he can say good things, but I'm afraid I got it right and you're wrong. He wanted to say that when you are an opposition Member, it is much easier to draw attention to some things, and you know that. Andrej, of course, you know it's a lot easier to warn and tell solutions, shake them out of your hand, and when you have to put them into the final mosaic, it's not always that easy. I think that's what my colleague Jurš wanted to tell you, not that you're talking one thing, but that you're doing the other when you're a coalition MP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u158	Thank you. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u159	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I'm afraid I'm going to have to repeat a little bit of what I already did on Tuesday. I hope that we will be in this building, not forever, but at least for a while, we will have opposition and coalition MPs and Members. It's easy. It's hard together. I would say so, but perhaps Comrade Prikl, who was the Secretary of State, could help the young people of the SDS who have made efforts and who go to the proposal of this law and move somewhere. Second thing, we always hear about it. Who took this ZUJF? When a man hears about ZUJF, he thinks, damn it, it's even worse than a threesome. I don't know if it's one comet that fell out of space. In this building, the ZUJF was accepted, and in this building, the ZUJF can also open and change and it seems to me that it was about time that it was already going into this. Now, the three of us have gotten away with a little bit, and now this ZUJF is going to be – when we're always going to be scaring somehow with the ZUJF. Colleagues are already the subject. It grieves me that there is only a secretary of state here from one of the smaller departments, that there is no minister with him, that there is no minister for the economy, that there is no Minister for Education. You know, that's one more thing that crosses the sector's field if I put it that way. We have a division into some ministries, but usually most of the challenges, problems, problems are not somehow pushed into just one ministry; and this is it. All this debate that I've heard today – and frankly, I ran from a dentist to the National Assembly, and I don't feel very good – in some way that we have the best intentions, but especially on the coalition side. [[…]] And I won't, you know, I've had enough of this for almost half a year — telling my mind what a party should do, what the coalition should do, what the opposition should do. I'm not doing this anymore. Maybe if you pay me, not in here. I'm definitely not volunteering anymore. Look, I'm gonna tell you one case from the house I come from because I have time. This spring I somehow got such a polite, sugary email, because that volunteer practice proved to be good, the guide asks, blah blah blah – in the context: give Franc, talk students into volunteering and then promise them that maybe someday we will hire you on the FDV. Of course I'm out of my mind. I said that if anyone, but some college for social skills should open this matter up and show what a shame, shame, it's a shame! But – except for one unionist, no one responded. Why am I saying this? I'm not saying this because now the FDV would just be tunneling, but I'm saying because somehow we accept this as some kind of practice, because probably personally, we're a little too old, except for some young colleagues, or they're not studying this kind of science, it doesn't hit us directly or maybe we have so much income that we can still take care of the growers. In particular, I would like to see a vote on this tomorrow. We said we would support and, after all, invite young people to speak. Colleagues say, the economist said, the economist said, the economist of that – the economists are coming, and Mrs. Auberšková from the Chamber of Commerce is coming up and down. Let the young people know how they feel! I'm not gonna get my hands on it now. I can imagine, I'm hanging out with my students, OK, my colleague Prikl was talking about deregulation of professions. [[…]] Good. In some segment – of course, but it also has some dimension, some question. I think we need to get this whole thing a little wider. I'm going to end up with Richard Sennett, who, in his famous work, talked about rule 10,000 hours. It's an old Czech rule: you need 10,000 hours to stop being an apprentice. I think we should go back to this in solving Slovenia's development challenges and reindustrialisation of Slovenia and also think about it somehow – we can talk about duality, we can talk about other things – and I put it in, and that's mine and – and logic. And of course, to solve this disgrace of volunteering as soon as possible, irrespective of archaeology, who could ever be, is not, and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u160	Thank you. A representative of the Government, State Secretary Dejan Levanič, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u161	Thank you for your word. I think it is quite clear, because so far there has not been a time when the Government would have taken clear conclusions and clearly defined what it feels about volunteering; and this is now done. And it's not over, of course not, it's the first step to arrange a volunteer internship in this way, if we can even call them a volunteer internship to pay them. But believe me, the Minister of Labour, who also flew this message that she must exercise authority in the Government and achieve this, has arranged this in her field; with the initiative of the Minister, she has also come to the Government to arrange it more widely. Not through the Labour Relations Act, which does not systematically regulate this area, even if we delete everything now, the problem of how to regulate compulsory traineeships in the public sector will still remain. And if you want - a hand. Everything that flies in the next year is no longer a short time. Anyway, I think that's clear. I am not talking about two, three years, that this will now be regulated and that we can talk about as short a time as possible than a period that is not defined. This next year must no longer be an event in Slovenia, the government made it clear that it does not support it, urged the ministries not to make new contracts for volunteering anymore, and crucially: that all informal knowledge acquired outside, for example, formal employment contracts, be recognised as official work experience and imposed on the Ministry – this is what we have written in our own conclusion – that we, along with other sources, find financial resources to hire the trainees as well. The debate, how to organise further the apprenticeship system – some countries are already returning to this system, which has had positive effects in the past in Slovenia – and how to organise dual education systems, but is certainly in place. But I do not want to say what is the responsibility of one of the ministries, together, because it does not concern people, because they want us to do our job – and I agree here – but it is only necessary to see that this moment, as a bill-maker, such as an executive branch of government, we can propose the best possible solutions. And we agree with the proposaler that volunteer traineeships are not appropriate or not acceptable. Pika. We have to save them in the following year, and this will also lead to a debate in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u162	Thank you. A representative of the proposer shall also have the floor. Andrei Chush, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u163	To refer to the last words of the Secretary of State, let me also inform you that it was yesterday that the SDS Group introduced a dual education system into the legislative procedure. We are following up on issues that are also very much attached to the young generation, and one of the problems is definitely the poor link between the education system and the economy. But I think there's going to be a substantive debate some other time. I would only like to inform Mr Piklo that we did not write this bill overnight, although it only counts five. This can also be confirmed by that Member or Member who was present at the last meeting of the Committee on Finance, which took place ten days ago or last week. There we proposed a concrete system solution to halve concession funds for the Student Organisation and for student services. Many people are probably not the most satisfied in the public with the operation of the traineeships and would devote quite a few funds to paid traineeships. This proposal has been rejected, of course we have sought other existing solutions within our proposal and it has certainly been a meaningful proposal from the law governing the labour market and parental protection. So there was quite a bit of work to be done, a lot of experts involved in the preparation and now to say that it was overnight — I will not agree with it the most. However, on the basis of the coalition agreement and also our pre-election programme, the proposer assessed that, at last, there is sufficient political will and interest in the National Assembly to finally regulate this area. I agree with Mr. Duck myself. Let us leave this archeology alone now and address the key problem and one of our desires with this bill is to enable young people to enter the labour relationship as soon as possible, not that it is the same as today when young graduates have to go to the market for at least 3 months if they want to get some social programmes from the country. Let's do this as soon as possible. I am sure that many of the members of the coalition will reconsider after today's substantive debate, sleep, perhaps you too, Mrs Murgel, and I am sure that tomorrow we will vote on the right decision, so that the law goes into further procedure in the National Assembly. We're going to invite young people to a second treatment, so to the mother's working body. I would like to say that, at our request, we had an urgent meeting of the Education Committee, which Mr Mahnic spoke about. There were also invited representatives of the youth sector: the Youth Council, the Youth Union and other national youth organisations. I must say, I liked it very much when we heard so many different opinions on such a cluster, but similar proposals. The Committee also adopted one of the proposals for the Education Committee to include one youth representative in the Economic and Social Council. I think this is crucial if we want to harmonise policy in future intergenerationally and work hand in hand. Of course, I am counting on the social partners to support this proposal and, of course, to participate in the National Assembly in the future. I must say that in the end all the conclusions that have been proposed have also been slightly rectified, accepted as conclusions of the Committee and all the conclusions have been adopted unanimously. I think this is one model of action to move forward, and I think we should take a similar path in the field of volunteer traineeships. Let's confirm the law tomorrow. It is a matter of sufficient systemic law, fundamental, stable and then law with your corrections, correction of the social partners, including the ministries, to be corrected in the second reading. Mr Pikl, you are the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs in the National Assembly, and I am sure that you will help with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u164	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the meeting's time frame, tomorrow, 19. 12. 2014, in the context of the vote. I hereby terminate this agenda item and interrupt the third meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you.
