ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 53rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Romana Tomc, Dr Ljubica Jelusič between 13 and 17 hours, Mrs Jasmina Opec, mag. Barbara Zgeiner Tavsh, mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, Dr. László Göncz after 2 p.m., Mr. Jožef Horvat and Mr. Roberto Battelli. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the setting of the agenda for the 53rd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday 17 January 2014, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda of the meeting, so I suggest that the assembly set a agenda for today's meeting, as you have received with reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Please check the functioning of your voting devices before deciding. Can we move on to a decision? Is everything okay with the voicemails? Not yet. Take another time and check your operation. I do not see anyone alerting that the voting apparatus would not work, so I am putting to the vote the agenda. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 53rd Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. On the eve of the day, this is a proposal that has been made in connection with the non-management of investment in Block 6 of the thermoelectric sums, which poses a serious threat to the development of Slovenian energy and public finances. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted by a group of 25 Members and Members, with first signed by Jozet Tank. With regard to this proposal, the group of 25 Members and Members, with the first-signed Jozet Tank, requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Magi applicants. Andrei Vissiak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u2	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Block 6 Thermal Power Plant Šostanj represents one of the largest investments in the history of the Republic of Slovenia, one of the largest energy investments, and has been ongoing since 2003. The political decision on the appropriateness and usefulness of this investment has been drawn up through several documents. In my opinion, the key investment in the resolution of national projects in the government, when I covered the energy sector myself, is a key investment. This decision was drawn up in 2006 on the basis of the then known facts and then known professional forecasts of how things will take place, following then known information in advance. And what were those circumstances then? At the time, the price of investment in the main technology equipment was around 600 million euros. At that time, the price of electricity on international markets, in the main market, which is a reference price for Slovenia, was about 50% higher than today, about €60 per megawatt hour. At that time, consumption in Slovenia and in the region was higher year-on-year. All the forecasts predicted that most European Union countries would already be in 2012 and 2013 without adequate coverage of their needs. There were eclipses in Europe at that time. The power lines were out, as the consumption of conjuncture in the wider region grew. Finally, the climate and energy package, which has committed countries to reducing CO2 emissions, has been adopted and requires more renewable resources. The investment of Block 6 then responded as one of the "ready to go" investments, investments that were ready to invest to meet the needs of the Slovenian energy system and also reach the goal of self-sustainment. A significant change of circumstances took place between 2008 and 2009. The economic crisis prevailed, and electricity prices nearly halved overnight. By the way, electricity prices jumped even higher in 2008 than those thresholds in 2006, were about twice as high as today, and significant changes took place with the 2008-2009 break. The first of these changes is a drastic decline in electricity prices on the markets. By the way, the investment in the main technology equipment was increased by about 50% on the basis of the investor's invitations, the Termoelectric power plant Šostanj. At that time, spending, in particular industrial consumption, fell, and at that time all those who knew this investment were publicly warned, including in this Parliament, by the Borut Pahor government, that this investment was to be reconsidered in view of the changed circumstances. There are magnetograms, public letters and evidence about this. At that time, it was time to reconsider this investment in the light of changed circumstances. It wouldn't be anything new and anything out of the ordinary. A number of economic operators, responsible owners, have revised or re-examined their investments and a number of investments, which seemed reasonable in the years before, due to changed circumstances. The Slovenian government did not do so at the time, but continued with this investment. This investment has experienced such and different prices, but the price to date, respected, despite efforts, in particular in the other Janša government, is not fixed. Apparently not, at least according to the current minister. The second Janšev government in 2012 wanted to end this and also through the guarantee law, and through the terms of the guarantee, it limited this investment to a maximum of EUR 300 million. This has been adopted in Parliament, honourable Members and Members. We have decided on this in this reference to Parliament. The bill of payments and this value was limited to EUR 1.3 billion on the basis of the investment programme's amendment to the construction of the Šostanj Termoelectrica, block 6, which also experienced an international institution's review. We are talking about a credible document, a revised document, which was the basis for limiting this investment to EUR 1.3 billion. The other Janša government has endeavoured to limit the value of this investment to that level and to commit all those who have led this investment to act rationally in this investment and within this specified sum. I think that this has taken an important step forward, and even then the management of the Chestnut power plant still writes to all of you today that that price is achievable and realistic. That is why, honourable colleagues and colleagues, we were disturbed and concerned by the position of Minister of Infrastructure, Mr Omerzel, just after the appointment of the post, that this investment would be about 140 million more expensive. At first, the minister said that everything needed to be done to make a billion 300 million euros, a month later, which would be documented by his colleagues below, and the minister changed his mind and said that the real price was a billion 440, and said that this was the truth about block 6. I think the truth about Block 6 is that the current suit at the head of Minister Omerzel is to encourage this investment, to add to the burden of those who are using this electricity, virtually all Slovenes and Slovenes, to pay someone who has not yet arrived. This is unacceptable, and therefore, immediately after these statements by Mr Omerzel in the National Assembly and in public, the Group convened extraordinary meetings of the two committees, the Infrastructure Committee and the Finance Committee, and later also the plenary sessions, and appealed to the Government to frame this investment under the terms of the guarantee and to respect Parliament's decision that the investment is limited to EUR 1.3 billion. The problem is that agreement has been reached both in the government and in Parliament, and this is still not being respected today. On the basis of extraordinary meetings in Parliament in July, exactly 15 July, the government adopted some conclusions. One of these conclusions suggests that a new investment programme called NIP 6 – New Investment Programme 6 should be made and that it should be true that Minister Omerzel has stated that the NIP 5 is not accurate, up to the bottom. Another important conclusion of the Government is that it imposed on the Minister responsible for infrastructure, who is sitting behind me, with the help of an international independent specialised company, a review of possible options and a proposal for further steps related to the investment in Block 6 and TEŠ. However, one of the most important decisions, according to my assessment, is that the State Defence Office, in cooperation with the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space and the Ministry of Finance, prepares a report within 3 months on the legality of the conduct of HSE and TEC authorities in the event of this investment, and if anything is wrong, informs the law enforcement authorities. These conclusions of the government were received by the Slovenian Parliament and also addressed them at the plenary session and adopted a recommendation to the government. In his recommendation to the Government, he confirmed these proposals made by the Government, but the last decision I mentioned changed in such a way as to instruct the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space and the Ministry of Finance to prepare, in cooperation with the State Defence Office, a report within 3 months on the legality of the conduct of HSE and TES authorities and, in the event of irregularities, propose measures to protect the interests of the Republic of Slovenia. It was further concluded that the National Assembly would propose to the Government to report to it by 30 November 2013 on the implementation of the Government's decisions. We have not received this report, my fellow Members and colleagues, in Parliament. We have not received this report, so we have requested Members and Members to convene this extraordinary meeting, because we believe that these are very important government conclusions and that these are very important activities to be undertaken in relation to this investment. That the matter is even worse – not only did we not get the report, but we found that most of these conclusions were not carried out on Tuesday’s work body. Firstly, no new NIP 6 investment programme has been made. This is said to be unreviewed and to the bodies of companies of the revised investment programme, which would allow the Minister to claim that the investment is more expensive than 140 million euros. It is said that the value of the investment would rise from a billion 300, as the revised NIP 5 says, to a billion 430 or 440 million euros. There is no document. The minister's talking about it. That could be his opinion. The law we have adopted and the treaty is binding on it. Then there was no international independent review and review of possible options and further steps – a very important thing that was not done. In short, the Ministry does not have any professional, well-founded view of the future of this investment, but does so on the basis of some of its own opinions and negotiating views of companies which provide this information, which are either way biased. And third, which is also crucial and very important in my opinion – the Ministry has not obtained and has not made a report on the legality of the conduct of HSE and TES authorities in the event of this investment, and which would, if anything were wrong, have provided the lawfulness of the conduct of HSE and TES authorities with this investment. Indeed, it is clear from the correspondence that the Ministry of Infrastructure only referred to the State Defence in September questions which had nothing to do with the legality of HSE and TEC’s conduct in the event of this investment, but which raised questions relating to the possible nullity of Alstom’s contract with TES. The ambition of the government as well as of Parliament was to answer the question whether the authorities - we are talking about supervisory councils and administrations - have done both HSE and TES unlawfully, so that such decisions have also been made in relation to this investment. We don't have that answer, my dear fellows. However, we have a statement from Mr Koshorok, Director-General of the Slovenian Power Plant Holding, at the same meeting of the Committee, which said: "All the administrations of the Italian Power Plant have deceived the competent ministers." These are serious allegations, and the problem is that some who are in the positions of these subsidiaries still occupy these positions today are still CEOs, despite the fact that such difficult words have fallen on the part of the Director-General of Holding of the Slovenian Power Plant. Ladies and gentlemen, the government of Alenka Bratušek, headed by Minister Omerzel, has so far not submitted a single conclusion to Parliament and has not initiated these procedures regarding the legality of the conduct of HSE and TES authorities in relation to Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectrica. I believe that there is a great deal of truth in what the Director-General has said that he has deceived many people. However, if this is true before we agree to encourage the project, as they suggest, we will find the responsibility of those who have so far deceived any of the decision makers. Ladies and gentlemen, we propose to adopt a clear commitment by Parliament to receive this report, which we should have received by 30 November 2013.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u3	Thank you for the additional explanation. The proposal for a recommendation was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure and Space as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Sam Bevk, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected choir! On Tuesday, the Committee on Infrastructure and Space considered the proposal for a recommendation on non-management of the investment in Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectrica, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Group of Members and Members, with the first-signed Jožet Tank. The Magnificent Messenger. Andrej Vizjak pointed out that they had already pointed out the issue of investment on several occasions and requested that this topic be addressed at meetings of different working bodies, and lastly at a meeting of the National Assembly last July. The National Assembly then proposed to the Government that it report on the implementation of the decisions by 30 November 2013. In his view, reporting on the implementation of decisions is not satisfactory. Therefore, in point 1 of the proposal, the applicants propose that the National Assembly once again request a report on the implementation of their decisions, and point 2 also require the Government to report on the planned risk management measures that this investment poses for the operation of the entire Holding of Slovenian Power Plants and for all other planned investments in Slovenian energy. The opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service on the proposal was presented by Katarina King. She said that their main comment was of a formal nature and related to the type of act in which the proposed text was to be adopted by the National Assembly. On behalf of the Government, the Minister of Infrastructure and Space Samo Omerzel first submitted a comprehensive chronological presentation of the project, the construction of Block 6 is under way, and then presented the replies regarding the implementation of the decisions adopted by the Government at the 34th letter meeting on 15 July 2013. With regard to the development of the NIP 6 investment programme, it notes that the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space and the Ministry of Finance have received a draft required document, which has not yet been confirmed by the supervisory authorities either in TEC or in HSE. Only when the NIP 6 is officially confirmed will it make sense to engage an independent international company to prepare reviews of possible options and further steps related to this investment. The Director-General of Holding of the Slovenian power plant Blaž Kosorok first presented an overall assessment of the situation of the entire HSE group and identified it as extremely difficult. He continued to reject the evidence of non-investment, but in view of price developments, it will be necessary to accept the fact that investment will not be profitable for the first few years. He stressed that there are sufficient reasons for investigating and identifying irregularities and persons who could be responsible for these irregularities, but this is in the domain of the competent state institutions. The director of the Italian Power Plant, Peter Dermol, said that 99% of all contracts were signed for the investment of Block 6 and around 90% of all parts were concluded. All of this points to the fact that the project is in a phase where it is not meaningful and cannot be stopped. The only obstacle to the finality of NIP 6 at this time is some of the dilemmas that have arisen with regard to the price of coal. The representative of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, Rok Praprotnik, explained in relation to the identification of possible irregularities and for those responsible in the 6-block investment process that there is no competent institution on the basis of the current legislation that could fully investigate this case. He stressed that in order to effectively investigate such cases it was necessary to adopt legislation which would allow competent authorities to investigate such complex cases in a comprehensive manner for a longer period of time. In the longer term, all the discussers agreed with the assessment that there was a great deal of uncertainty and suspicion about the non-transparent part of the responsible persons who led the company during this period and expressed their full support for clearing up these suspicions. In this regard, the coalition Members praised the analysis presented on the project and expressed their support for further activities for the successful completion of the project. They considered that the Government and the Ministry had provided sufficient comprehensive answers regarding the implementation of the Government's conclusions. The opposition MEPs, however, expressed their dissatisfaction with the answers to these decisions. In addition, a proposal for an additional decision was also made that the Government should submit to the Committee a report by the State Defence on the legality of the conduct of HSE and TEC bodies, which was not adopted. The document was later received by all Members. By [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] The Committee adopted its amendments to the title of points 1 and 2 of the proposal for a recommendation and the amendments of the SDS Group remained irrelevant. [[...]] In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the completed proposal for an act, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. However, the amended proposal for an act is an integral part of the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u5	Thank you, too, for the report. Mr Just Omerzel, Minister of Infrastructure and Space, will give an introductory explanation of the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u6	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, welcome! At the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, we have really dealt intensively with the issue of TEŠ 6 and everything related to the investment itself. On the Infrastructure and Space Committee, we presented in detail all the results, all the information we have today. Unfortunately, today we have these opening options to present the issue itself limited to only 15 minutes, so that I will be a little more modest at individual points, but I will be happy to explain all the details in a further discussion. What is crucial in solving the whole problem itself, what has happened, events that have had a profound impact on where the investment itself is today – these were, above all, key two moments. We have undertaken solutions with a comprehensive approach, especially because we have taken account of all the interactions, all of what this means for the Republic of Slovenia, the impact the investment itself has on Holding Slovenian Power Plants, what it means in this whole story the business of Coal Velenje and the investment itself in the 6th block also for the business of TES as a company. The second part of the approach was a systematic approach to resolution itself. I also want to say that we have very detailedly separated on one side only the business of all companies, everything related to the Slovenian Power Plant Holding, and on the other hand only an investment in the 6th block. If we go specifically to numbers, what is crucial, and these numbers are what is based on the knowledge and documentation that we have in our hands today. Today we have the NIP 6, which is still unconfirmed by the Heat Power Plant, but the numbers speak for themselves. NIP 6 says that at the moment, the investment is worth €428.5 million. Today we have a billion 86 million. If we look at the necessary funds after the NIP 6, this difference between the paid and what the NIP 6 actually shows is EUR 342 million. The final price of TES 6 after NIP 5, this is the number on which the guarantee was given, is one billion 302.5 million euro. But if we look at the difference between both NIPs, so the difference to NIP 5, what still needs to be paid according to NIP 5, is 216 million, and if we look today at the difference between NIP 5 and NIP 6, this difference is 126 million. The following are the facts on which the difference between NIP 5 and NIP 6 was based. Building works of 11 million, equipment of 66 million, sum of smaller items – I must say that in these smaller items I am always a little pained when I talk about it, because in this investment smaller items amount to hundreds of thousands of euros – and the costs of financing at the time of the construction of 42.3 million euros. This cost comes from the fact that the investment itself is delaying over time, and those investment costs that should already be covered by the current operation of TES 6, 6 block are moving into the investment period alone. In the overall review of the impacts on Holding Slovenian Power Plants from the point of view of the investment, we reviewed the figures in several scenarios. Please pay attention to the variant one where we have the Coal Velenje and its business. In 2014, 2015, 2016 to 2020 The trend towards the entire investment goes forward in this direction, as you have in the table itself. Business outcome of Velenje Coal Mine in 2014, 2015 and 2016 is a positive zero, but a positive zero because Coal Velenje goes into disinvestment. In the following variant 2, when we look at the cost price and result of Velenje Coal Mine, these numbers are visible. In 2014, we are talking about EUR 10.5 million, in 2015 we are talking about EUR 14.5 million and in 2016 we are talking about EUR 5.8 million disinvestment of Velenje Coal from those activities that are not their primary activity. Velenje Coal has quite a few investments that are not related to their core business. If we look at the numbers in the first scenario, we see that from 2017 onwards, at prices promised by Coal Velenje, they are making a serious loss. In 2017 €8 million, in 2018 almost €4 million, in 2019 €8 million and so on. In scenario 2, we took into account the cost price of Coal Velenje, which is energy. In this case, in the future, Coal Velenje operates positively, and I ask you to pay attention in 2014, 2015 and 2016 – a business outcome in thousands of euros, so we are talking about an annual business outcome. 10.5 million plus, 14.5 million plus and 5.8 million plus comes from the disinvestment of Velenje Coal. When we look only at the operations of TES in numbers known from invalid NIP 6, in the first three years of work minus and in the later years of work plus. It's all based on input items that we're going to comment on. Then the very influence on Holding Slovenian Power Plants. Holding Slovenian power plants has a positive business, but it is very important and at the moment the most critical point that we are solving together with the management of Holding of Slovenian power plants and all within the competence of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, the financial deficit, I ask you on the following page to pay attention to these numbers. The financial deficit of the holding company in thousands of euros – we are talking for 2014 205 million euros, for 2015 70 million euros and for 2016 30 million euros. These are the figures that were introduced in the NIP 5 under financial revenues, but which did not have any background. Dear Members and Members, we are not talking about thousands of euros, but we are saying that we had 205 million financial resources foreseen in the NIP 5 for 2014, and when you look at the NIP 5 documentation, you feel that the financial structure is closed, but there was no source in the background for these millions. When reviewing the business itself and how the investment itself will affect business, it is a key element of energy. I believe that today you are all perfectly clear that in thermal power plants the input parameter, the energy parameter, and this famous 2.25 euros per gigajoule, of which the whole of Slovenia is already talking, is what is crucial in how the final price of electricity that will be able to be put on the market by Thermal Power Plant Šoštanj. At the signing of the NIP 5, Coal Velenje pledged and signed to supply a 2.25 euros energy per gigajoule. Company management has looked at the data from the surrounding area, and here we have an example of the price of coal from the Banovićs in Bosnia, where, together with transport costs and their sales price, we arrive at 4.18 euros per gigajoule. And when we look at the data, if we were to drive coal from somewhere else, we would even come up with 5 euros on gigajoules. So we're talking almost the factors of the difference to what was promised at NIP 5. When we add all these numbers together, we need to look at what the facts are today. In the decision itself or our position as a departmental ministry and governments are key facts today. As Minister, I have not been involved in the events and decisions of the past that we must resolve today. I have to decide and propose guidance solutions based on what is happening today and what is happening to me. Today, a billion 86 million euros have been paid. That's the money that was paid. If we look at the scenario of stopping the investment in the Termoelectrica Šostanj, this means for a billion 86 million weaknesses in the books of the Holding of Slovenian Power Plants or the Termoelectrica Šostanj. For those who have ever dealt with balance sheets, it is quite clear what this means – if you have a capital of EUR 86 million on one hand, which is worthless to you at one point, and you must also regulate the appropriateness of the weakening for that capital. Stopping Coal Velenje – a clear thing. If the 6th block does not operate, then the scenario of how to close the Velenje Coal Mine in relation to existing operations should be taken into account. Recovery of EIB and EBRD loans — no doubt. If the investment stops, the loans should be returned at that point. This means €550 million plus €200 million in repayment of loans. This is an immediate outflow. And, of course, the remainder, which remained open until the contract value was met until Altoma. I am convinced that this is the part that, in the case of this scenario, would be resolved in the courts, but a very high risk, it is very likely that this part at the end of the Heat Power Plant should also be paid as a signatory to this contract, and this is what we say in the 200 million euro ranking. In short, on the one hand, we have a weakness of a billion 86 million and on the other hand an immediate flow of money into the billion euro line. Key risks in the review of the entire investment: input energy, no doubt. It is perfectly clear what the impact of the input energy on the price of electricity will be. CO2 emissions at this point are not a critical moment in the analysis of the business itself, but we must be aware that in energy policy within the European Union, we are all seeking to be a low-carbon society. Yesterday, the European Commission announced the results of what we expect in the long term – 80% reduction in CO2 emissions. This is extremely difficult to reach for Europe, which means that CO2 will have an extremely important factor in the operation of the Šostany Termoelectrica. Production product of electricity. For the production product itself, we have timetables signed at the annual level. There the thermal power plant reaches about €45 per megawatt hour. And we have daily timetables, where it reaches up to 150 euros per megawatt hour. And what is the key here? Average prices and how it affects business itself. We have an extremely dynamic model. On the one hand, there is a dynamic model of the quantity of energy sold and on the other hand, of the value. And when we look at the mix of this – I apologize, ladies and gentlemen, but in NIP 5, this model is not presented anywhere. Why am I so skeptical of this result? There's no such thing as NIP Five. When we talk about the powers themselves, who is responsible for what part of the investment, I really ask you to pay attention to this page. On the left you have the control council of the Soda, the administration of the Soda, and the administration of the Soda is the one who appoints the control council of the Holding of Slovenian Power Plants. The Supervisory Board of Holding of Slovenian Power Plants appoints the Management Board of Holding of Slovenian Power Plants and appoints the Supervisory Councils for Premogovnik Velenje and for TŠ. On the other hand, when we look at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, I ask you today to be sure that we are all aware of the impact of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space on companies' operations. Our assets and companies are managed by the Court and not by the Ministry. And I'm asking you to point your finger at us, where we did something, and what we didn't do to take that into account. This table on the side itself is so small that you can't see anything. That was clear to me, but I wanted to show it on purpose. In this table, the key events are under individual government ministers or governments. Red is the government under Mr Robb, all in yellow in the middle and finally the government of Mr Janez Janša. We have an orange, this is Mr Borut Pahor's government, and we have Mrs Alenka Bratušek's government right down in white. But we pulled a few key events out of this table. The first key is in 2006 – the investment programme in Block 6, Prime Minister Janez Janša, Minister of State, Mr Andrej Vizjak, and Mr Andrej Vizjak, President of the Supervisory Board of the Holding of Slovenian Power Plants. Mr Vizjak, I have already asked you this question, and I will ask it again today, and I would like a concrete answer, a little more in that direction of justifying numbers. At that time, you supported the investment of €690 million and also supported the investment when EUR 1.3 billion was guaranteed. 700 million differences. Please, if you can explain where such a change in attitude is coming from. I see I'm running out of time. So, one set of key events that took place under the government of Mr Janša and the government's district ministers. I am sorry that I am running out of time, but a very important issue in the very need for a thermal power plant in Šostjanj – we must be aware that the thermal power plant Šostanj and the regulation of the energy system in Slovenia is important. You can see this in this division of the energy balance of Slovenia. What is crucial is that we have also drawn up proposals for further – you have them in the works – how to proceed, which institutions must act, and what is after the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee. The proposal by Holding Slovenian Power Plants is also in preparation, so that, in addition to our proposal, we hope that management will be the one that will come up with key proposals on how to resolve the current situation, how to ensure liquidity. A key question, however, here I agree with Mr Visiak – Members and Members of Parliament have been misled. The documentation presented was misleading, and it is certainly not up to you to be those who would give the relevant opinion on NIP 6. But when we talk about the responsibilities of the government, the minister and the supervisors, who were then from the ruling parties – they should be competent enough and responsible enough to present and assess whether this investment documentation is on the right footing or is misleading, and at those crucial moments, further reflections should be made and further arguments should be found on whether or not the investment is involved [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u7	Mr. Secretary, please make a presentation. Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Hello, everyone! In the DeSUS Group, we have adopted a position that such recommendations regarding the non-management of the investment in Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectric Power Plant, which seriously undermines the development of Slovenian energy and public finances made by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, will not be supported. However, we will support the complementary proposal for an act of the Home Committee. We are aware that the applicant's recommendations may also be intermediate and written as an obvious statement to the current government. We understand the situation, and we firmly believe that the current government is in control of its work as a whole. It also includes the tasks assigned to it in the energy field, i.e. the completion of this famously launched and yet unfinished energy and economic project. Energy represents an important branch of the economy, and the real recovery of the economy is one of the priorities of this government. The failure to complete the TES 6 project is a challenge and a commitment of the current government to complete it. On the basis of a clear statement by the Prime Minister and the data presented by the competent minister in the DeSUS Group, we estimate that stopping the project would be even more costly than the end itself. Indeed, as the Prime Minister has already said, the investment in TES 6 will not stop. It does not see the reasons for its suspension, but it certainly does not see the need to draw up an appropriate legal basis which will allow for the integration of parts of several competent and connecting bodies, including audits and investigations, as well as all necessary for the transparent completion of the project. The fact is, we are all aware of what has been so wrong in the 14-year period that the matter has not yet been concluded. The current Director-General of HSE, Mr Blaž Kosorok, believes that the TES 6 project needs to be completed and that for the profitability of TES, the key price of coal managed by the Coal Velenje is thus crucial. In order to minimise the price of coal, the coal mine will therefore have to take measures such as reselling of non-profit assets and only deal with basic activities. The cost of the project is already so enormously high that, according to some of the project's leaders and even calculations, this project could cost less if managed successfully. All hints about stopping the TES 6 project are, in our opinion, superfluous. In the DeSUS Group, we strongly support the continuation of this investment, as it is already at this stage, when three quarters of it has been carried out and stops would no longer be considered. In the DeSUS Group, we strongly support the intention of an internationally established and independent revision of the TES 6 project, because we believe it is more than necessary. And the conclusion of the culprits for ever-new stimulation. We ask ourselves this question, and we do not know why the competent and responsible have not yet responded to the correction made, such as NIP 2, NIP 3, NIP 4 and NIP 5. Then the contracts are so loose that they leave too much room for further stimulation. In the DeSUS Group, we don't care how big or how much they are, especially because the country, due to the recession that we were brought into because of the poor governance of the country in the past, has reached into the collapse of social transfers, non-coordination of pensions and so on. This project is constantly experiencing new and new incentives, and citizens have no influence on this. That is why we will be very careful to monitor in DeSUS the situation with regard to a more realistic projection of the completion of this project. The Government also considers that in the framework of this extremely important strategic and energy project, the necessary innovations, more realistic reports, revisions and appropriate action are being taken by sanctioning. Last but not least, we have confirmed enough legislative documents with which to act in this case as well. With all these presentations, reports, and so on, I will dare say that we have and that we are going to play another big sad game. There are incomprehensible facts that show that we are not able to complete the construction of a complex energy system either professionally or financially and not politically. I'm asking both myself and you what the problem is. Who won't get enough in all this? What's with all the gibberish and all the gibberish? Why would the mistakes of the administration and the government translate into additional funding for an unfinished case against taxpayers? Don't we live in a state of law for 23 years? I hope it's the hardest thing to admit to not being in control of the situation. In the DeSUS Group, we would like to see an unprecise, baseless confusion and uncertainty not continue. We need to be aware that we're kind of exhausting the government's portfolio. And I'll be critical. Is it not obvious that some have already taken much, cashed or carried away, taken advantage? Is it necessary to create a situation that is not in line with the government’s views, governance, supervision, control? So, from this national-political lesson, it is more than obvious that the balance of the whole matter in this Slovenian business reality is negative for all of us. I ask whether the damage done so many years ago is irreparable and impossible to sanction. In the DeSUS Group we followed both the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Government. And as I said in the introduction, we have taken the position to support the complementary proposal of the mother's working body. Today, in the National Assembly, I look forward to a constructive debate in terms of more effective action and monitoring and disclosure of all players for too long and to date an unfinished energy project TES 6. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u9	Thank you, too. Mag. Matthew Tonin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group, and please wait just a moment to turn off the computer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! TEŠ 6 is one of the typical examples of project management in Slovenia that goes about this way: you present an unrealistic price, impress with this price of people and decision makers and then start implementing the project. But every day this project runs, the project is being auctioned. Annexes are concluded, unforeseen complications are foreseen and the price is rising. And when people and decision makers find that the price is too high at some point, there's always an argument that now the matter is too far away to stop it. In some ways, the enforcement policy always achieves that the project continues and that the price initially set is never achieved. Nor is the alternative ever sought, for it is always a suspense that stopping or any other solution is impossible. TER 6 is just the most obvious example. We have also had such examples in the construction of a highway cross, in the construction of tunnels, and in many other cases. When it comes to billions, these numbers are relatively unimaginable. And if it's not just about your money, then maybe people don't even deal with the details. But I will try to explain the case of TEŠ 6 on one very banal case. For example, in the case of a tourist package to the southern, warm places. Today, tourist agencies impress you with how pleasant you can fly to warm southern areas, relax and enjoy. They offer you a very favourable price and, of course, you decide and fly away. But when you're on a plane and on a flight to these southern places, they start telling you that the price is not yet included, the one, the other, the third, and they're also convincing you that the way back is no longer, that now is, that despite the fact that the project or trip will be a little more expensive, you still enjoy it, and that you have to be patient because there are no other options. But there are always alternatives. There are also alternatives in the case of such tourist abuses. When you arrive, you can still return, choose and fly to another location, you can choose another hotel, but you can also request a refund. I said it was a banal case, but it basically says something very similar to what's going on in TES. I'm sure there are always alternatives if we're just looking for them. In Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats we absolutely cannot agree to an authoritarian argument if the return is not that the project cannot be stopped. Claims that stopping the project costs two billion euros – before that, the Minister explained to us how the two billion euros would have come if the project stopped, but he did not tell a second part of the story. This is that if the project continues, it will cost us at least €1.5 billion, and the same TES 6 project will create 50 million losses each year. And if you add that up, you find that in 10 years of operation of this project, the cost of this whole project will be exactly the same as if we stopped the project today. That's two billion euros. Only that after 10 years this project will continue to create a loss, while in the event of the closure or termination of this project costs would be fixed and definitive. There's a few options. A very eloquent example: the halting of very bulky energy projects took place in Austria when they literally built a nuclear power plant in the 1970s and stopped it – so they never launched it. Some experts point out that there are investors in many third world countries today, particularly in Africa, who are building thermal power plants today and would be happy to buy back the technology and equipment we have today in Scotland. Of course, we would have made a difference for this equipment. Today, the minister himself proved that better and cheaper coal simply cannot be found. I'm not getting into this. I can tell you I believe him. Therefore, the first two alternatives are all the more important. Christian Democrats certainly do not agree and do not agree to the policy of enforced facts and to the constant threat, so we were the only parliamentary group that at the beginning of this mandate fully opposed and voted against that guarantee for EUR 440 million. We were right because we were aware that things could change and start turning around differently only if you shut down the lobby's cash tentacles. Lobby's only willing to talk when they've got their money locked up. Obviously, it does not shake anyone or go just past this information, that the TES leadership has constantly deceived decision makers that the data on which this Parliament has made a decision were false and inaccurate, that investment programmes have been frigidized and millions have moved here and there just to get the results that the decision makers would have confirmed. The fact is that TES 6 was criminally led because decision makers were deceived because the price was constantly frigid and the Annexes were signed to the detriment of TES. The cost of the project was initially estimated at EUR 700 million. But already in 2009 the project was estimated at EUR 1424 million in NIP 2. This is practically the same price today, and in 2009 nothing great was put there that could not be stopped. In 2009, there was a time when this project could be stopped without any major and such costs as could be stopped today. And those who were responsible in 2009 must ask themselves why you agreed to deceive, why you did not inform yourself in more detail, and who were those key lobbyists who pressured you to see the light of the world. In this project, there are a lot of unusual decisions and, as I have already said, criminal moves – that millions of dollars have been paid for things that have never been done. A concrete example is that €10 million has been paid to the Primorje for work that has never been done. Another criminal story is about welders — that some intermediate contracts were concluded. For example, Hilda However, the welders who worked on the project earned or earned EUR 32 per hour, while the TES welders on the other hand earned EUR 16 per hour. That difference is leaking somewhere. Your Honor! Now everything shows that, with reckless and dangerous investment in the 6th block of the Heat Power Plant Shoštanj, those who have so far deceived the entire Slovenian energy sector and public finances have also undermined the foundations for sinking and threaten to bury them permanently. The investment in TES 6 has long been a bottomless pit that swallows up more and more taxpayer money. It threatens to bury not only TEŠ 6 but also Premogovnik Velenje and, worst of all, HSE by cashing out the state guarantee and bankruptcy. Therefore, the Minister-designate – today you are running out of time and I hope that you will come forward in the debate – in a way we demand and we want you to present measures that will finally stifle the rise in investment costs and curb the appetites of the lobbies that are behind this confusion, called TEŠ 6. Today, in the introduction, you merely presented the current situation and the facts that we are all aware of, but in particular we miss your initiative and your proposals to frame this project. Above all, we also expect a presentation of measures to prevent the breakdown of the entire HSE and, within your powers and the law, find those responsible for almost 10 years of fraud and damage to state property.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u11	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Positive Slovenia, Mr Jože Velikinja.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u12	Honourable Chairman, Honourable Minister with the Team, Honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Today's meeting of the National Assembly takes place on the basis of the SDS Group's request to reopen the issue and dilemma with regard to the implementation of the currently largest investment in Slovenian energy, namely the construction of the 6th block of the Termoelectrica Šostanj. This time there is an alleged lack of investment control on the wallpaper, thereby jeopardising Slovenian energy. Probably not all of us have forgotten that we are talking about an object and a project that TES included and adopted with a strategic development plan long ago in June 2004. Block 6 is intended to replace technologically outdated and economically non-profitable blocks from 1 to 5 with its 600 megawatts of power. The original decision was followed by a decade of more or less important decisions needed to implement the project, and they were taken by all the current governments. The project had an ambition to develop the whole of the Silesian region, but unfortunately it has become a victim of selfish partial interests and will ultimately fail to achieve its purpose, not in the regional or national context. The positive Slovenia therefore deplores and again condemns the irresponsible and extremely damaging management of the investment in the construction of block 6 of the Šostanj Termoelectrica. It is absurd that the clarification of the circumstances concerning TER 6 again requires those who are most responsible for it. The SDS requirement for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly cannot be interpreted differently than an attempt to transfer its own responsibility to others, this time to the current government. The government of Alenka Bratušek has accepted the state-run project TEŠ 6 primarily as a set of facts that could not be avoided. The range of options and the possibilities for continuing the investment have virtually disappeared. The current costs of implementing the TES 6 project have already come in such a way that we can no longer discuss the possible suspension of the project. However, if we also assess the obligations that TES should meet in the course of such a decision resulting from the project, we will get enormous values compared to the value of the total investment. Therefore, the decision that the project must be completed as soon as possible is only correct and, at the same time, it is necessary to rationalise all the costs of the project in parallel and to draw up variants of the solutions resulting from the business risk assessment following the start of the investment. It is also necessary to draw up a liquidity management plan for the entire Slovenian Power Plant Holding until the project is completed. Of course, these guidelines and solutions must also be implemented, and this will not be a cough. In Positive Slovenia, we still believe that the competent authorities, in particular the Court of Auditors and the State Defence, need to carry out all appropriate procedures and clarify a number of allegations of corruption and other illegal practices responsible for this project. At the 30th urgent meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and Space, the competent minister briefed us on the state of the project for the construction of TEŠ 6 and the state of HSE, while at the same time showing a comprehensive plan for the rescue of investments and operations of Holding of Slovenian Power Plants. We have also learned about this today. We have received an answer to the proposed question of the meeting, this is the realization of 7 conclusions of the Government from the 34th letter meeting of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, we adopted the amendments to the conclusions of the recommendations made by the Coalition Members on the parental committee. The delegation of Positive Slovenia therefore supports the efforts of the Government and the competent ministry to address the issue of investment in the construction of Block 6 of the Termoelectrica Šostanj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u13	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Zvonko Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u14	Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, the minister, all others present! In 2012, the National Assembly adopted the so-called Meh Law and, on its basis, granted a guarantee to rent a loan to the European Investment Bank amounting to 440 million for the TES project 6. The law was introduced into the legislative procedure on 2 February 2012, before which an identical law was rejected by the predecessor of Mr Meh, the current mayor of Velenje, and Mr Kontic, then Member of the Social Democrats in 2011. This law, so-called Meh's Law, was also signed by Mr Kavtičnik as a Member of Positive Slovenia and Mr Brulc and Bevk of the Group of Social Democrats. There were no conditions for the granting of the guarantee in this basic proposal. It was a marriage that was supposed to allow this distribution in some way. In the process of consideration, however, the National Assembly supplemented this Act with conditions, including the condition of maximising the value of an investment to EUR 302 million and EUR 400 thousand. 29 Members voted in favour of this law, 20 against it. The delegation of Positive Slovenia has obstructed this vote, except for Mr Kavtičnik, as co-signatory of this law, which voted in favour. 6 of the 26 members voted in favour of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, 6 of the 7 members of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, 5 of the 6 members of the Parliamentary Group of the DeSUS Group 3 of the 5 members, 7 of the 10 members voted in favour of this Act, as we have already heard in the presentation of their position. On the basis of this law, the then Minister of Finance, Dr. Janez Šuštersič, is 30. 11. 2012 signed a guarantee contract for the implementation of this guarantee and, together with him as the then competent energy minister, signed a contract with the TES to regulate the relationship in the implementation of this guarantee. After Alenka Bratušek's performance, Minister Samo Omerzel briefed the National Assembly on the new value of the investment, which is expected to increase by 140 million euros – a billion EUR 440 million. I quote these figures because the minister says that the number, say, is 0.4 or 0.5 euros negligible in these numbers and wants to be exact because every thousand is important – it is true. But it wasn't about thousands or euros, but it was about 140 million. And after a few months, we now hear another number again – EUR 128.5 million more. The National Assembly addressed this issue at an urgent meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and at a meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and Space in May 2013, and later at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on 16 July 2013. At that time, the National Assembly, in addition to taking note of this issue and agreeing with the Government's conclusions adopted at the previous meeting, will also find or expect that, in view of the conclusion that the project does not provide implementation in time and price frameworks, as defined in the investment decision, it will conclude that the reasons for the increase in the value of the investment are not sufficiently clear and that there are insufficient grounds for taking further decisions, it has instructed the Minister responsible for infrastructure to draw up, by means of an international independent specialised company, reviews of possible options and a proposal for further steps related to this investment. The commitment was then made by TES to develop a new investment programme by the end of October, the so-called NIP 6, and the commitment was made by HSE to present by the end of October the impact of the changed investment situation in Block 6 TES on the liquidity of business and the business results of HSE and TES and the risk assessment of the cash guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia. The Ministry of Infrastructure and Space and the Ministry of Finance have been instructed to prepare a report within 3 months on the legality of the conduct of HSE and TEC authorities and, in the event of irregularities, propose measures to protect the interests of the Republic of Slovenia. The National Assembly decided to expect the Government to report to it by the end of November on the implementation of its own decisions adopted at the letter meeting on 15 November. Seven. 2013 There was no report. That is why we have proposed this extraordinary session that we are in today. The Government and, above all, the competent minister did not present these findings and these reports today. Therefore, the conclusions are not fulfilled, neither are they. This is, last but not least, recognised by some predecessors who have pointed out in the views of the parliamentary groups that the continuation of this investment should be carried out more responsibly. Not only do we not have these reports, we also have a lot of deception, manipulation, even lies, I'm sorry. Moreover, all those responsible, for whom we hear from the Minister on the one hand that they have misled this project, are still in all positions, except those who have resigned in the meantime, are rare, and who have not even been involved in the implementation of this project in a loving manner. Mr Milan Medved, the political provenance of the Social Democrats, has been in the position of Director of Coal Velenje for many years. This is the same Mr Milan Medved, who has repeatedly stated in writing that the price of 2.25 euros for gigajoules is realistic and achievable. This is the same Mr. Medved, who has twice signed a treaty on this subject, for the first time in 2009, and subsequently in 2012, where this commitment, which was signed more formally in 2009, was also sharpened. Mr Dermol, who now leads the TES, the same political provenance, was part of the team that led this investment until 2010, during a period for which we all find that the most corruption risks and most of the circumstances have arisen that led to the abnormal irritation of this investment or to an increase in its value. So, we all know that this investment has been cataclysmicly driven and guided. Unfortunately, it is probably no different today, but nothing has been done so far. The authorities didn't move until after she was 11. 12. Interpellation tabled against the Minister and after we have tabled a request for the convening of this extraordinary meeting. Interestingly, events began to take place as to how and how to get this investment into manageable risks and prevent the redemption of the visa guarantee to the State. One week after the interpellation was filed, 18. 12. The Ministry shall meet all the Presidents of the administrations of these three companies, the Supervisory Boards and so on. 21. 1. We read that the Court, which is formally in the role of the assembly of these companies and so on, has moved forward. Before virtually nothing, these hands were extended. The report, which was to be prepared in cooperation with the defence, did not at all and did not at all identify the responsibility of all concerned, but some completely different stories. Some contracts were reviewed, 23 of them not basic with TES and so on. As part of the discussion of this point at the July meeting last year, when the ruling coalition voted our conclusions, we have proposed that the competent minister and the Government should do their utmost to prevent further increases in the value of this investment. This Decision has not been adopted. At that time, we said that as a result of this day, the exchange rate or signal to all those who have seen the opportunity to recharge this investment is an opportunity, and that is what is happening in these days. Secondly, what we expected at the time, and what was also adopted in some way, has not been realized – that they will study and take appropriate measures in the shortest possible time to prevent the risks that are likely to arise due to the changed circumstances in the electricity market for Slovenian energy associated with this project, and in particular for other energy projects. And we are only reading some guidance on this in the conclusions adopted by the Court on 21 January this year. Directions, not measures. Thus, both the competent Energy Minister and the Government have violated their own commitments, their own guidelines, their own decisions. I've read earlier what should be up to certain deadlines, and there's no such thing. NIP 6 is not. When the minister speaks of the NIP 6, the draft – NIP 6 is a non-paper document. It can be confirmed in the end that these numbers will hold, but so far NIP 6 has not been confirmed on either the TES control board or the HSE control board, because the management and supervisory councils of these companies cannot agree whether this NIP 6 is non-paper, credible or not. And yet, today and on Tuesday, we listened to the committee's arguments about how the minister has a right on the basis of this non-paper on numbers. It is said that everything previously approved on the relevant bodies is not worth anything. All those who have done this are worthless. In such a case, they should be required to pay back the amounts they have received for their poor work. The credibility of the Minister's words will be confirmed at a time when these claims against them will take place; otherwise, it can be said that this is just another type of manipulation, the deception of the public to which we have witnessed by the Energy Minister in the last period. As what has been concluded has not been adopted, the question arises to what extent any further investment in production resources in the Republic of Slovenia is at risk of achieving the objectives of the climate energy package of directives and how we will be forced to remedy the situation in the future if there is no action at the shortest possible time. Instead of focusing on concrete measures, especially through clear guidelines, preventing many who wish to re-sow on this investment in order to avoid further incitement, we have witnessed some insatiable deception, manipulation and, unfortunately, lying today and in the last Tuesday and previous months. First of all, with regard to this value of the project, about which there was a lot of talk. Why is the true value of EUR 428 million 500 000? Why isn't the real value of a billion 440 million or a billion 302 million 500 thousand euros? What is the basis for a billion 428.5 true value? Is there a formal document behind this? The signed contracts do not speak of a billion 428.5, but of a substantially smaller amount. Not only are the contracts signed that justify the value of this investment, but there are a number of other things. In addition, it has been said, also by Mr Meh, who has now come across several times when I present this view that this assessment of the value per billion was a political assessment of the fact that it has been known all along since this project began to be the true value of a billion 400 and something. He even said a billion 400. It is said that we already have a third or fourth number — a billion 400. It is said that what the Pahor government did – in 2011 it was confirmed on all the bodies of these companies and reviewed the so-called NIP 4 at the value of a billion 300. Don't hold it. Mr. Meh says that Pahor's government has agreed to something that is a lie. He says it was known all along that it was worth 400 billion. Last but not least, I'd ask him why he voted in favour of a law with a billion 300 if he knew it was a bluff all the time. This figure, a billion 302 million 500 000, is also in the NIP 5, confirmed by the authorities of both companies, reviewed by the Councils and orally further substantiated by the competent directors, in particular as regards the prices of coal and the rest. However, it may not be the right one, but that is why we had a meeting on 16 July. For this reason, we have made some conclusions and commitments to verify this matter, and today we should have these things on the table, verified, validated, reviewed and revised through an international audit. Mr Omerzel himself recently said the following, quote: "As far as the future of this project is concerned: the treaty itself is very clear. The contract itself is the one where we have one key piece of information. And this key information is 1.3. As for the project, I am sure that no one in this Slovenia wants us to have a monument for a billion euro in Scotland." Here. I quote: "And we don't have to have it. For 1.3 billion, this project needs to be completed. I don't want to go back in time, whether 1.3 billion is real or not. 1.3 is a fact that we have also defined by the guarantee contract and also made some commitments," – a meeting of the committee in this Parliament, two committees, on 31 May this year. About a month later, at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, a completely different position: the real value is 140 million euros higher, i.e. a billion 440 million euros. Today's third position: the real value is EUR 428 million. It is very difficult to talk in this way if such views and words come from responsible mouths. It is also very difficult to talk if we read in our response to the interpretation against Minister Omerzel at this point, I quote again: "Because of the complexity of the problem I claim that the argument without NIP 6, which would be on the right input data, would not be complete. Until we have the right input data and so on, we cannot speak with certainty about the final cost of the project." It's absolutely true what's written here. But it seems as if the answer to the interpolation wasn't written by the same person who's making statements in public. For on Tuesday and today we have witnessed many times that the only true value is the one that comes from the non-paper NIP 6, which has not yet been confirmed, and everything else is a bluff. Regarding the price of coal, 2.25 is similar – on the one hand, why it is impossible to reach it, on the other hand, the signed contracts, the commitments made, the statements made by those responsible, in particular the management of Coal Velenje, the President of the HSE Supervisory Board, the former President of the Supervisory Board and the President, before this price is justified. Of course, if it was an opportunity, who wouldn't? I would, too, if I were Mr. Bear's CEO. Why should I seek rationalisation and that certain activities that do not belong to Velenje have to be excluded from Coal Mines, if we can continue to operate in such a small socialist way, socialise all these losses and put them in taxpayers' pockets? In such a case, I would say, if there was an opportunity and an opportunity, at least 2.50. But our responsibility, our decision and the matter of those who are responsible, is to prevent such speculations, not to give them the opportunity to happen, and to respect the contracts that have been signed. Mr Medved signed the contract twice, and also the Director of TES and HSE, in 2009 and 2012, that such a price would be. And if these contracts cannot be implemented, then those responsible who cannot do so must be resolved, but not given silence by justifying the need to increase the value of the project and to reduce its profitability below. We already know, and here we do not close our eyes that it was a mistake that things did not take place on the substantive side of 2009, when Comrade Vizjak, as a then Member of the public letter to the then Prime Minister, warned that circumstances had changed and that a project should be re-examined and reviewed in what sense and how it would make sense to continue. At that time it was still time, and throughout the rest of the period we know that only solutions were being sought to make this investment within some normal framework and that it would not burden the whole of Slovenian energy in the long run and consequently not allow those suspected to take advantage of this investment to continue doing these things. So, what am I trying to say? Ladies and gentlemen, if such discussions as I mentioned earlier and such figures were to be heard in some of the inn debates, it might still be understandable. In this way, however, a solution cannot be sought for the best possible conclusion of the investment, but in particular it is not possible to seek a solution to take measures to prevent the redemption of the State guarantee and to ensure the future viability of the TES. In particular, these evaluations by the Minister lose their credibility when compared with some of his other statements. Remember the second track statement. We will make it for half a price – otherwise we don't know what half the price means, but let's say 700 million euros. On what grounds? On the basis that the minister said so. In 2020, it will not be in this position for long when the investment starts on this project, which we have in the drawer today, is likely to grow not to a billion 400, as it is now written in the draft investment programme, which is not yet confirmed, but probably to a larger number. Of course it can be cheap, but not without a change of project. Or as to the choice of car plates, where the minister had the opportunity to refuse all offers on the table. Given that the highest price was €6 million 500 000 and the most expensive €13 million – if it was not possible to choose this cheaper – to repeat the story, to bring the cheaper bidder into the house and to relieve taxpayers of these unnecessary costs. Where possible, we have one way of doing things, and on the other hand, we have a completely different way of doing things. That is why I must say that I have lost faith in the credibility of these words spoken, and probably not just me, but all of you. Regardless of which side of this hall you are sitting on, you do not know today what the real value of this project will be in the end. And I believe that neither of you knows what effect this value will have on the energy image in Slovenia, but especially on all other energy projects. All that is being done, all these statements, all these figures, I think, are going in this direction, that now somehow in the public eye it is accepted that the value of this project is about a billion 428.5 or even a billion 440 million, with measures taken by the new management of TES, will reduce this value by about 20 to 25 million. The second year, we will hear that the investment has cost, say, a billion 415, and that the Minister will then and everyone else will be happy to praise how cost-effective they have acted that this investment has been accepted in a much cheaper framework than was initially presented. This is the same spin as we had in the bank hole – instead of 7 billion or more we have 5 and everyone is supposed to be happy about it. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we still expect that all measures will be taken to ensure that this project is implemented within the financial, substantive and time-frames as adopted by the Guarantee Act adopted in this National Assembly. This is the responsibility of the management of these companies, the supervisory councils and, consequently, the State and the competent minister. We have already heard today that everyone, the supervisory councils of these companies, external auditors, reviewers, ex-presidents of governments, ministers are responsible. We are all responsible, and only the current minister is responsible because he has no authority over this project. This is why we are talking today about solutions that are not available. None of what was adopted both in the conclusions of the Government at the letter meeting on 15 July and one day later at an extraordinary meeting in the National Assembly is realized. We do not have a confirmed investment programme number 6, we do not have an international audit of this project in financial and substantive terms, and we do not have a report that is to be prepared through the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, the Ministry of Finance and Public Defence in terms of the exercise of the responsibility of the Presidents of the Administrations, the Supervisory Boards and all others in relation to this investment. In the past, we have also noted – you will recall – that the investment has been conducted inappropriately, in an inadequate manner, uneconomically, with a high level of corruption risks, as the Commission has also found to prevent corruption. We've found that a number of annexes have been concluded. In most cases, contracts were concluded in the interest of favouring the supplier and not the contracting authority. Accordingly, certain decisions have been taken. These findings have been sent to the authorities responsible and some investigations have also been carried out on this basis, which have not yet been completed. Just as the Government is doing today and as the Minister is doing, in our view it is quite clear that the project will be undermined. In our view, there is a very high risk that the guarantee will eventually be cashed out and, in view of the words we have been hearing in recent days, those who have really sought to optimise this project, as far as it has been able to be optimised since 2010, will ultimately be responsible. At a time when we are talking about TES 6, and we are not successful even in making the right decisions that the National Assembly as the highest representative body is supposed to make, something else is happening to us. Here is a picture from the round table or the public stands The development of the Silesian Valley, otherwise taken before the time, not so fresh, but not so old, where we read within 7 points: the first electric and hydrogen vehicles and so on. Point 7 – I believe you see poorly, and I will read to you what it says: Block 7. That's the problem in this country. In the same way, the story of abnormal irritation of investment, inappropriate management also began to unfold in the case of TEŠ 6. That is why it is our shared responsibility not to keep our eyes closed. It is the responsibility of the Minister and the Government not to manipulate the public, but to implement those conclusions that have been adopted both in the Government and in the National Assembly, and we expect the National Assembly to adopt our amendments to the recommendations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Meh will present his position on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, Vice President, Minister of Cooperation! I was already afraid I wasn't in the right session to have an interpretation, Mr. Secretary. So I just had to think about whether I had the right sheet and whether I'd be right to discuss it. However, we are still ahead of another debate today in a series of discussions on the investment in the 6th block of the Šostjanj Thermoelectrica. Many things have already been said in this and in all past years and more than they would have been right. However, it has been a little over half a year since the last debate on 16 July. At that time, at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which was convened at the request of the same motioners as today, we accepted the conclusion that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had already taken action on this issue, but of course that was not enough. At the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and Space we had on Tuesday, the Minister fully reported on both the history of the project and the future of the project. The problem of the construction of the 6th block of Thermal Power Plant Šostanj has been dragging for many years. In recent years, the construction of the TES block has deepened and deepened the controversy, both economically and politically. In addition to other domestic factors, the investment was further burdened by the difficult economic situation both in the world and in Europe, as well as by the tight financial conditions on the energy market, which are also reflected in electricity prices. The economic factors that are directly and indirectly linked to the construction of Block 6 have become so much more political today. The problem of the construction of the 6th block of Thermal Power Plant Šostanj is complicated. Within 10 years of the beginning of the construction, a lot of actors have been involved in the story. At a meeting of the National Assembly, if I may call it that, we're not going to save this collabo. The Group of Social Democrats therefore supports efforts to resolve the problem by the institutions responsible and qualified to do so. Politicians, Members of Parliament, we're not. We're always complicated. We will therefore support the proposed decision in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats: "The National Assembly has taken note of the activities in implementing the recommendations of the National Assembly adopted at its 41st extraordinary meeting on the issue of investment in Block 6 of the Šostjanje Thermoelectrica and Slovenian Energy and supports the Government's presented efforts to solve the problem." However, I would like to comment on some things a little differently. We, the Social Democrats in Velenje, have always thought that Dr. Milan Medved is a member of the SDS. I'm sure he's never been a member of the Social Democrats, but I still have to check that he's old enough to ever be a member of another party. He was never a member of the Social Democrats. However, he is a responsible economist who worked and led an energy policy during the time of a number of ministers. Now some rumors, or statements, that are not valid. If this is Meh's law, then I'm satisfied. This is the law by which the Republic of Slovenia gives the guarantee and with which we together give the green light to the construction of Block 6, which is essentially a replacement block for Blocks 3, 4 and 5, as was said today. I'm sure you all know that we have blocks 1 and 2 in the Shale Valley next to these blocks that don't work anymore. Blocks 3, 4 and 5 are still operational, additionally polluted, and do not have such cleaning facilities as they should have. With Block 6, we're going to spend a million tons of coal less, so one quarter of the coal is less, we're going to have one third of the better benefits, and we're going to get the same amount of electricity that we're going to get with blocks 3, 4 and 5. In doing so, CO2 quotas will be smaller by one third, NOx will be significantly smaller by at least one third, and SO2 pollution will be significantly smaller. And that was one of the conditions why we're landing in the Shale Valley to build block 6. Mr. Visjak said something like this — that it is necessary to pay someone who has not yet arrived. Ladies and gentlemen, I object to such a way of working. If Mr. Vizjak knows that someone has already been paid out of this project, then he was the responsible minister, the President of the Supervisory Board – why didn't he say so? Why did he not initiate procedures for something to be done in this area? All those who talk so easily about it being sucked into doing it, tell them who did it. Have courage and do this, not just talk because you are confusing this Slovenian space. The Vizjak is also deceiving. 99% of the contracts have been signed, and Visjak still claims that 1.3 billion – not to say then again – 1.3 billion and 200 500 thousand euros – is the correct number of NIP 5, 1.3 billion. Today, however, 99% of the contracts are signed and all costs other than those relating to coal are known. The Supervisory Board must decide on this. And they're still saying that NIP 5 is a good one. That's an interesting question. It is also an interesting question to answer, including how the NIP 1 in the NIP 5 came to a billion 300 million and then there was no problem. That's when they kept this information, and no one was hurt. That's the information they were holding. However, 99% of the contracts were not signed at the time. At that time, significantly fewer contracts were signed, and today, when we speak of 99% of the contracts being signed, 90% of the investment being built, we still do not believe that this number is correct and that it reflects the situation that is now known, of course, until the adoption of the NIP 6. New Slovenia also speaks – Christian Democrats say that TES 6 will produce 50 million losses annually. Which item, ladies and gentlemen? On what assumption do we say this? Why are we saying this and bringing further confusion into this Slovenian space? Never and nowhere did any document prove or have any real basis on which to talk about it. Why are we doing this, ladies and gentlemen? Why are we talking about something that's not true, that all documents prove? Anyone could get to know that if they wanted to. What is our purpose? Our own promotion or the truth we want to tell this Slovenian nation? Yet we Members and Members of Parliament are the ones we must tell in truth, without regard to which party we are in. They say that TES has always been infuriated, ranging from 600 or 700 million to the current billion and 400. NIP 2 was a billion 400 and something else – Mr. Chernač knows exactly how valuable the NIP 2 was – and no one believed it. And then there was a miracle. With NIP 5, we've reduced our investment to a billion 300. It wasn't the right number, it wasn't the right data, and it wasn't the right investment program. That's why I'm saying it's also that [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u17	Please allow the speaker to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u18	I'm used to it, so it's nothing like that. I'll say mine for sure. It is also the number that EUR 10 million has been paid to Primorje for work that has not been done, the information that needs to be proved, and if anyone knows that this has been done – why has he not initiated the procedure? No, we speak here today without sin, without being held responsible for it. We're talking about data that's not accurate, that's not real. The one who's been prosecuted is if he's actually paid 10 million. It's all going into a situation where I might say that. Mixing with TES 6 as expressed by Mr Tonin is only from the moment politics has been involved in this project, whoever it is. Let me once again say that TES 6 is a replacement building for blocks 3, 4 and 5, which are technologically obsolete, is technologically state-of-the-art and, as I have already said, will consume at least a million tonnes of coal less. If someone claims that it is possible to sell this facility somewhere else, let me repeat that there is nowhere else to build technology equipment, that it is built precisely for this coal, for this location, mounted at this location, and can only use lygnate at calorie value or 8 to 12 thousand gigajoules. He can't use it anymore. There's no other way to use it, so everything we're talking about here, and we're saying that this technology equipment could be sold, it's not true. Is there enough coal? Remember the debate about whether there's enough coal? When we are so eager to talk about how much money we have spent on this — has anyone calculated how much we have spent on foreign studies that have told us how much coal is left in the huge coal mine? I'm telling you, once again, operating coal in a giant coal mine is enough. For Block 6, there are 112 million tonnes of operational coal. That's what we need for block six. And the geological reserves are about 340 million tons. So when we talk about it, we talk about what's true, not what someone's saying. I agree - if today's discussions are in the bar, then I don't know what the debates were before we discussed them, and I don't know how I would mark you as what those discussions were, where they belong. That is why I agree with my predecessor that there is often a debate here as well as a barbaric debate, even though we should discuss the arguments and as is the case. Now let me ask you one more time. If NIP 6 does not hold, if it does not exist, does not exist, but NIP 5 does exist, then is the one that is true – on what basis? Based on what was adopted here? Based on what the secretary told us here - that there are a billion 300 million euros and two more if you want? It is said, however, ladies and gentlemen, that those who have been responsible ministers in the past, the responsible presidents of the supervisory boards, whatever they are responsible for, today would not ask those questions for which you were responsible. I feel sick that someone in 2008 was a responsible minister who did not know that the energy situation would get as complicated as it got, but when he was no longer a minister in 2009, he immediately wrote a letter to another minister. That is why I think that everyone working in this area has tried to do what is responsible. The question is just whether we had the right data, the question is whether we were working responsibly to those we say we are also representing here. I am firmly convinced that today we will give some answers, that we will try to speak as our conscience dictates, and that we will have relevant information and responsibility in the back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u19	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Mr Marko Pavlisič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! We would be happy if the story of the 6th block of the Heat Power Plant Shoštanj was just another skeleton that fell from the cabinet on the government's shoulders. Unfortunately it is not a skeleton from the closet, but rather a closet of skeletons, and skeletons began to gather three government mandates back in this TES 6 cabinet. In the years 2005 to 2008, Alstom’s main contractor was selected, the payment of the reservation contract was made and finally the signing of the Alstom contract. And we got the NIP, the New Investment Programme 1, worth billions and 70 million. There was a new wind in this project with Pahor's government. NIP 2 - 1.4 billion, NIP 3 - billion 150 million, NIP 4 - 1.3 billion. And the last skeleton was added by Janša's government with a NIP 5 of 1.3 billion, revised, but about this revision a little later. The fundamental question raised by the caller of this meeting is whether the Government is in control of the event related to this project. On the basis of the information provided by the Government and also received in the opposition, it is clear that the Government is clearly aware of all the risks that this investment poses. But the truth is, if you don't want to see something, then no eye specialist can help you. And no document will be enough. It is clear from the material available to all of us that there has been a great deal of trouble in this project. The letter from KPMG, which audited NIP 4 and NIP 5, clearly shows that an active independent audit of the project was prevented. Let me quote a few points in the extensive list of documents that have not been made aware of during the audit process. This is the minutes of the HSE meeting with Alstom of 27. Seven. 2011, which is prior to the implementation of the NIP 4 audit, whereby the signing of the appendix to the contract with the supplier concerned was agreed, the key consequence of which is the delay in the final period for the final part for three and a half months. Data is essential for both the revision of the time limit and the value of the project. The following is a letter from the TEŠ management to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the value of construction works related to the external arrangements, which was then the same as in the NIP 4, says EUR 5.15 million. A few weeks later, in the NIP 5, it is valued at EUR 1.5 million. While price reductions are commendable, at least the auditors should be clearly presented because they pose a risk. An unexplained price reduction poses a high risk of late unexplained reflection. Then a few more minutes of meetings between TES and Alstom regarding the price of editing. It was clear from the audit itself that this was intended primarily to confirm what had to be confirmed. The indication of the hidden data is for a few parties, which clearly indicates that the actors obviously did not intend to act in a fair and transparent manner, but rather the objective justifyes the means through the system, which seems to indicate that the target was not built at all by the power plant but by a loaded pocket. And if I go back to the basic question of whether the government is in control of the situation. The answer is positive. Unfortunately, this has not been the case in previous governments. The value was steadily rising, and with the abundance of eye-stamping and data concealment, there were times when some reductions were also made in order to show their own work as a success. We met with a figure of 1.4 billion already in 2009. Comparable projects abroad show that the real value of such a project is between €600 million and €700 million, which was also the initial value of this project with the original investment programme. Maybe we can get up to 800 million with some specific stuff. Of course, the question is, what can we assign a difference of EUR 500 or 600 million to? In this case, is it petty theft or something else? This is a huge amount, and we call on the National Gazette to support the proposal for an independent public investigation into the project. I have no doubt that the competent institutions are already working on this. However, the size of this potential theft justifies the introduction of a special public investigation under the KPK proposal. Interestingly, those who today wonder whether the Government is in control of the situation did not react in a similar way in 2012 when they brought a sum of 1.3 billion to the National Assembly, later revised by KPMG, which later gave an opinion on its audit and on what was wrong with it. It is clear from this that, at the time, either the then minister did not manage the project, as he was not able to identify the problems of providing an independent audit, either the Minister controlled the project and agreed to conceal the right situation to the selected auditor. Such debates usually open up more questions than they close. In order to close them, we need the information and information that has been provided to us by the main actors so far, and it is quite clear that they have not yet been transparent to the auditor they have chosen, or that is why they have not yet been. Mr Vizjak, who was formerly the referee minister of this imported project, also told us about this – that he had to believe the data transmitted. So let me remind you today that next week we will also talk about this problem when we talk about the Public Information Access Act. According to experts in this area, the infamous TER 6 story would never have been if the Law on Access to Public Information, in the form we will adopt next week, had already been in force. A law that has virtually no direct financial implications may have several hundred million positive effects already in one project. At the start of this project there was a completely realistic possibility for this investment to be carried out with private capital. Perhaps the same would happen in this case, and if a private investor thought about stopping construction, then we would consider whether his project would be redeemed at some real price rather than thinking about how much we have already lost and how much longer we will be. How sweet it would be to deal with these problems if the then Janša government acted as it preached if a private initiative were taken seriously, not that it, like its counterpolo, swore on state ownership. Next week you have the opportunity to join the National Gazette in systemic changes that will prevent such excesses in the future. This is primarily the Public Information Access Act, which opens up data from state-owned enterprises so that data will no longer be hidden due to an untransparent management network. Next week we also have in our first reading a new Law on Slovenian State Holding, from which we expect a high-quality leap in governance and privatisation. This law, too, has its roots in the Civil Code, and not everyone is excited about these urgent changes. Project TES clearly tells us that this is the right way. You can also join in the fight against corruption. We all remember who, due to the opinion of the KPK, left the government because the Prime Minister had a problem explaining his assets and who sent another burdened policy to the cold, to the freezing instead of to the head of the government. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! Although this project is so big and is an ideal example of learning how things are not working and projects are not being run, we will probably all be happy if the project is completed as soon as possible, in one way or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u21	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u22	Good afternoon, respectable colleagues and colleagues! Let me say immediately in the introduction that in the Slovenian People's Party we support that such a difficult project as TES 6 is spoken of several times in Parliament. We also support the fact that this word is honest, honest, honest and to remove as many dances as possible from this project. I also agree with the predecessor, who said that there is a need to shake down doubts about corruption activities in the country and put as much integrity into politics as possible. Maybe the list is a little narrow and you could make it wider, but the beginning was made earlier with your presentation. More about it some other time. Regarding TES 6 — Why do I say that it is right to talk about it? This is an investment that is immediately behind the highway crossing, and I think that the second largest investment in Slovenia alone and the first in one piece, if I may say so, and an investment that has a profound impact on our future, both in terms of the cost of the investment, takes place both in terms of investment and in terms of electricity prices. As far as this investment is concerned, it has been said today that it has been quite a good decade since this investment started. And let us all be so honest and frank that we acknowledge that this decade is divided into the first five years of high conjuncture, which culminated in the very wrong time when all the contracts were signed from the perspective of this project, and the second half of this decade, when the whole world, not only Slovenia, was marked by a major economic and economic crisis. This period is a period in which, from 2004 until the end of 2008, the whole world and Europe, as well as an appropriate one, have witnessed a significant increase in electricity consumption, a significant increase in electricity prices. There were electric eclipses across Europe. In Italy, the Netherlands, systems were falling apart in America. The price of electricity increased from €40 per megawatt hour to €90 per megawatt hour. During this time and today, production from TES represents about a third to 40% of Slovenian electricity supply. We all know that it is very important for the energy environment to be accepted by the local community, and the Shaleska Valley has achieved social acceptability with regard to this sector also in connection with mining, electricity production and large companies, which are also related to energy. I say it's no big deal. Perhaps it is necessary for an environment to accept certain facilities. I come from an environment where, due to some social acceptability, we have been repeatedly characterized as a nuclear lobby. But I don't count it in the bad Shale Valley, and it's a responsible act, a relationship that they've accepted. We all know that this investment depends not only on the existence of TES, but also on the coal industry and everything connected in this valley and that we are talking about much bigger things than just this investment itself. We have heard here today from Mr Meh, and the profession has been saying that this coal is for the next 30, 40 years. As regards the placement of this document itself, strategic documents were adopted first in TES, a strategic document in the Slovenian Power Plant Holding, and also within the Government in 2004-2008, on the basis of the data obtained from these energy companies, it was stated that it was a government strategic project of EUR 600 million. Those who are still saying that the project was initially valued at 600 million are deceiving this work because it was an assessment based on the fact that at that time such buildings were being built at about the price of thousands of euros per megawatt. Nothing else was calculated at the time. From there I think that things have also started when investment programmes began to be prepared – there is a time in itself that, as I have said before, has called for this facility to be built because of the energy situation in Slovenia, in Europe. This investment programme was created in an appropriate manner. In these years, from 2006 to 2008, there was a period when the worst economy was, and if you remember: as electricity prices grew, so did the materials from which such buildings were built and everything related to it. Therefore, I say that this was a completely wrong time in terms of making an investment, in which final decisions were taken on this investment. The chronology has been mentioned many times, and let me say it myself. In 2006, the first such investment was prepared, which was based and was made at the expected cost of equipment. And at the time, the first investment program was made, which was about 640 million. When an offer was made at the time, how much this equipment would cost, the equipment appeared to be 870 million. And it was an investment programme in November 2006: 870 million equipment, 105 million construction works, 22 million investment costs, 70 million were estimated for funding – a total of 70 billion. This was November 2006. From there went on this great dilemma whether this object was accepted or not. Prices went up. This price was already too high for many at that time, and from then on it happens in 2008 when the energy-environment package is adopted within Europe, which was a very large limit to the installation of such a project and, on the other hand, the reality that a third of this coal is produced from lignite. In 2007 and 2008, I was on the Control Board of the Holding of Slovenian Power Plants, so that it is easy, and it is also right that I accept part of this responsibility, and if something is wrong with me, that those responsible should look into it. But I do know the conditions under which these decisions were made at the time. Many times these investment programmes came with great delays at Holding Slovenian Power Plants from TEŠ, and there was always some time pressure and threat of how the practically electricity system of Slovenia would break out. And in such an atmosphere, in 2008 the first pre-contract was signed, which also has this 25 million obligation. At the end of 2008, the crisis hit Slovenia tirelessly, the European space. As I have already said, an energy-environment package has been adopted in Brussels, and then many of us who knew about this investment have begun to be warned that there is a need to speak responsibly about it in this House, in this House, and to decide again. I say today, as I said at the time, even though many told me at the time, and even today I see that some like to connect it, as I had previously called, by being in a nuclear lobby and fighting for Block 2. None of this is true. I am talking about the fact that at the end of 2008, at the beginning of 2009, it was a crucial time for us to stop this investment in such a way as to say, not a contract for 870 million with Alstom, but to open these negotiations again, we are lowering it because the materials have also started to fall dramatically. I am convinced that we could reduce for a substantial amount more than the 25 million, such as the deposit, but on the other hand, we could decide once again whether the energy system is as big a block as we planned. I became a member of the National Assembly at the end of 2008. I have in my hands a piece of material that I myself have prepared for the point that took place in the National Assembly. My question to Prime Minister Borut Pahor was the first question from the opposition to receive enough votes to discuss this issue in the National Assembly. On 30 March, I proposed it. It was voted. On 15 May, a discussion took place on the basis of the material in which I referred to what I have just been alerting. The conclusions I proposed at the time went in the next direction. This was the conclusion: "Before individual energy decisions, a strategic reflection on further development is needed, which will be recorded in the strategic document, in the form of an amendment to the national energy programme." And second paragraph: "The next steps in Slovenian energy, such as the validation of individual investments – in particular TŠ 6 was this investment, which had to be confirmed – or the reorganisation of the Slovenian energy system, can only be taken on the basis of a strategic document, which was confirmed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia after discussion in the professional public." Regrettably, this has been followed by manners such as those in this coalition, such as those in the mandate, when I myself was part of the government or in the mandate I am talking about. Warnings and proposals from the opposition have not been taken into account. And why am I saying that this is a crucial moment when we are talking about this political responsibility? In March 2009, the so-called NIP 2, the amendment of the investment programme, was adopted, and at that time this new investment programme was a weighting of a billion 424 million. That means we're talking about a billion 430, where we are today. And what happened then? As some of us have warned, as I said, this is March 2009, when I raised this question of the Member State on which the debate took place. Mr Borut Pahor was, interestingly, present Prime Minister Borut Pahor for 5, 6 hours. Mr Matej Lahovnik, a member of Zares, who is now publicly representing himself as the only party to continue to do so, was, as a referential minister, in Prekmurje all day. So the Prime Minister told me at the time – that he had an obligation and withdrew to Prekmurje. The same minister is responsible for my notions that by November 2009 a €3 billion amendment programme of 189 million was adopted. This is the leap from March to November 2009. And at that time, October 2009, a final contract was signed. In this amendment programme, this equipment was already worth 963 million, construction works of 83 million, investor costs of 10 million, financing costs of 131 million. Although the financing costs were 225 million in March, they fell strangely to 131 million. A number of such items – this novelty programme 3 shows up for the first time as a special cost and so on. The equipment, the installation that was initially not foreseen, was already 95 million in the NIP 3 and 156 million in the NIP 5. That's when we get to a billion 303. And when we look for these political responsibilities, let's be clear, exact, outspoken, and let's say when something happened. It is true that Comrade Vizjak was Minister when an energy consensus was issued, as has already been said on the Committee. This is the basis that we can continue, and without any form of truth in political responsibility, we are looking for what happened from March to November 2009. We'll get it. It's all clear to me. Someone agreed with the management of the TEC that the costs would be fictitiously reduced by this amount between a billion 424 and a billion 189, which at that time was socially acceptable that the decision on the project had fallen. If someone convinces me otherwise on the basis of arguments, not only will I give him one salary immediately, because here is the key responsibility, he was finally at that button for this investment, and from this place I am responsiblely saying that everyone who did this knew that it would cost a billion 430. They probably knew that at the time – I don't know, I don't have any data to be able, as Mr Meh said, and if I had, I would have done it – who would get any commission, whether it was engineering, whether it was some sort of consultant, or whether it was one of the responsible ones. I believe there are 400 in one billion, because 1% represents 14 million, a lot of room for vultures who apparently crawl in the Slovenian political economic space, and there is probably nothing else here. That's why I'm going to conclude what I'm proposing. From here on, these things happened, and then in August 2011, at the exhales of the Pahor government, it was pictured as being 1.3 billion, a billion and 302 million euros. And in this time of year, this equipment grows from 963 million over 100 million to 63 billion. Somebody find out what happened between November 2009 and August 2011. And once again, I didn't agree to drag some foreign auditors back into this country, because it's been reviewed so many times that if someone takes the matter seriously, they'll find out everything, and between those 10 people in this circle, they'll find out who's responsible for it and put it where it belongs. And so the NIP, this 2004 amendment to the investment programme, was made in August 2011. Then this collapse of the government happened, and our government came, and I sat in it myself. Let me also describe very honestly what I think about what we got on the table when we received a similar number in September 2012. Previously, it was a billion 302 million 747 November, and in September 2012, we received a billion 302 million 492. For several hundred thousand euros, there was a difference. Again, we received the result that the leadership of that time assessed that the result was that the government could hand over the document so that the guarantee could be accepted in the National Assembly. I think that we also put that management in a situation where, at one point, probably aware of all the numbers, it decided that the government would be misled. The fact that we have been misled as a whole of the government, the whole Parliament, now bears witness to the data – what the current TES director openly said last summer, namely that on the same day the TES director signed before the government that this was the final price, signed an annex to this contract for more than 100 million. I mean, I'm talking about it, but basically, it's a leap from this billion to a good billion 400. It is known that Mr Tot was the director at the time, and if he hoped to sign the guarantee statement in the morning and to guarantee by signing the responsible person TES that this billion 302, and that the investment was made, six months later, and 100 million more expensive, he is responsible, and let's stop moving. We don't need anyone from abroad to do that. And here we are today. I think that last year, as a government, as a parliament, as citizens, we were all clearly misled. However, the situation was such that we received European loans with these auctions, and as the investment grew, they became attentive in the European Investment Bank and also in the European Development Bank, when we raised these loans and reached 750 million that the condition was the guarantee of the state. Even if Mr Tot were to tell us frankly in September 2012 that it is already a billion 400, we have already had this project imported. And we would be deciding again among the bad things themselves, because, as I have already said, decisions – surely, as we see from the cost of equipment, were for a billion and more costs made in 2009, because the Alstom deal would be very difficult to break, and most of all no one wanted it. And that is why I think that at this point in time, as far as these responsibilities are concerned – so I went through some of the items that I think are right to know – it is imperative that we very clearly locate those responsible. And as a member of the anti-corruption commission said, if a special law is to be adopted for a 1.5 billion investment – my vote is twice for this law, and I believe that we will all give it because we are talking about 1.5 billion euros. If a special law is needed in order for this public debate to come to the heart of the problem, let us accept this. And let those who are responsible, not us, put these people where they belong. We don't have a good solution today. Surely, as far as the investment is concerned, all the money is spent. It is not yet complete, but contracts are signed and the facility is 90 % or more completed. And any interruption of such a project means that we will – I don't know – a billion 100 million have already been paid, and that 300 to 400 million will be paid for penalties to contractors who will not be able to carry out the matter until the end plus preserving the facility. The next thing that will happen the next day will be to respond socially as a country for the 440 million guarantees we have at this facility, but since the holding is state-owned, we need to be discovered that 750 million euros will have to be returned and we will sink the holding. This can't happen. This holding company and Slovenian energy must ensure that the holding company does not collapse and that it will not be necessary to return EUR 750 million because these, colleagues, are significantly more favourable loans than those we received for the resolution of the bank hole. And I don't know where we're gonna get that money again. That is why I think that even from government circles, when at this government auction, which takes place in different opinions – one would close, the other would build to the end. Get real and don't call the ones who gave us this money to come back the next day and ask us to pay that money back. Be so responsible in the government and not on this project continue to collect these political points, anyone who has 5 minutes of time. That's why I think this project needs to be completed. I am very disturbed by the fact that it is being concluded by the same groups as it was. In this part, I would also like to make these proposals so that we should definitely set up project groups in this area by the holding company, which would undoubtedly complete this project by the end. From here on out, I think that we have a very bad job ahead of us, that first, as I have already said, Slovenian energy of a cohesive kind, and this project has been completed. At the same time, it must do so to examine how it will operate in these impossible conditions for energy in the coming years. Here I think that now that this project is 50 million losses per year will not work if the project is going to cost, if necessary, if it is possible to import electricity cheaper and it is possible to do so more wisely, for 2016 and 2017, when we already know what the prices will be. Or he won't use 3 million lignite, but he'll use a million tons of lignite. However, anyone who has this mathematics will also have to have a mine that depends on it, and it is also responsible for defining this issue. That is why I think it is crucial for us to make all the conditions so that the responsibility here can undoubtedly be sought – that the competent institutions come to the responsible ones. If it is necessary, as I have already said, to adopt the law, to accept it, and to bring things to the bottom for God's sake. It is no longer necessary to search for these people because their circle has already been identified. That's the first part. Part two. I think we need to close this investment as soon as possible and then lay down the conditions under which the Slovenian energy will be the easiest to come out in the first years, when it is now at such low prices. Everything else — it seems to me that there is already some ballast around the TES, which is very useful for the daily political needs. I would really suggest that we focus on the essence of this problem. But I certainly think that it was wrong on the committee where the coalition simply calmly rejected these proposals coming because they did not want to talk about it. I think the proposals were correct. They went in the direction that this project is being monitored further, and I think that every two or three months we should really get a clear picture of this project without any deceiving and by those responsible, in TES, holding, in the Ministry, guidance on how we will complete the project and how this project will work. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposal to come to the truth about TES, but we will avoid all the populist contributions that are really unnecessary in this project. However, we want those responsible for the management of the companies that have acted, the supervisors of these companies, the various advisers and so on, all the way to the politically responsible people for this project, to answer where responsibility needs to be called.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. First of all, I give my word to the Magi's proponent. Andrei Vissiak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u24	Your Honor! The Minister asked me a question – otherwise it is unusual for the Minister to ask questions to Members, because it is usually the other way around for Members to ask questions to ministers, but there is no problem. Dear Minister, this is a copy of the HSE development plan for the period 2006-2015, in which the number of poor EUR 600 million for investment in Block 6, with the investment value of the investment covering its energy component without funding costs and so on. This was the basis on which TES then provided us with the information you gave us, and this is the number. And you're never you or I didn't make up numbers for this investment. At that time we trusted her, and I think it was well-intentioned in these development plans that this investment was recorded at that value. So much for that. As far as the value of the guarantee investment is concerned. The value of the guarantee investment was related to the New Investment Programme 5, which was reviewed, and the interim period of the Pahor government suggested all those NIPs, from the NIP 2, which was a billion 400, at the end of the NIP 5, which also expressed ambition. Finally, Minister Lahovnik, who was responsible for energy in the Pahor government, publicly claimed for some time that he was trying to reduce this investment. Whether he did it or not, it's another question. But as a minister, I've always believed in documents and respected the law, unlike you. You do not respect the guarantee law, because the law obliges you that the value of an investment should not exceed EUR 1.3 billion. You do not trust the revised investment programme 5, which also limits this investment to EUR 1.3 billion, but you believe documents that have not yet been adopted. You therefore believe the statements of some circles of people, with Mr Kosorok, Director-General of the Holding of the Slovenian Power Plant, publicly at the meeting of the Infrastructure and Space Committee, saying that all ministers were misled by the authorities of the companies. Dear Mr. Minister, you've been awarded 15. Seven. 2013, more than half a year ago, the task, the Government's decision to check the legality of the conduct of the authorities of both holding and Termoelectrica Šostanj. Two days later, 17. Seven. In 2013, you received a mandate from this Parliament to examine, together with the Ministry of Finance and the State Attorney's Office, the legality of the conduct of the company's organs, knowing and obviously finding that everyone was misleading. This report, Your Honor, is not here today, and I'm asking you where this report is. Why did you lie to us on the infrastructure committee so that you can't disclose this report because you don't have a green light on the State Attorney's Office? The State's Attorney's Office sent you a report on purely other matters last October! In October last year, you received a report on whether there is any possibility of invalidity between Alstom and TES, not on a simple question, or whether you have claimed responsibility for those who have deceived us, you or this National Assembly, apparently, and are deceiving us today! Mr Kosorok also highlighted this. This report is not, and I ask you what measures as Minister of Infrastructure, in accordance with the recommendations of the National Assembly and the Government's decision, have been taken to find those responsible in the management or all bodies – we are also talking about the Supervisory Boards, both the TES and the HSE – to clarify this situation. And the honourable Member of the DeSUS Group, who asked what the problem is and why we are torturing the Members and the Minister here with these questions. There are two problems. The first problem is that the investment, according to the Minister, has increased by around 130 million euros in terms of the number that we practically supported in this Parliament from all the parliamentary groups as a condition for the state guarantee. This investment has grown. We wonder why, and we don't want to let that happen. That's the first problem. The second problem, honourable Member, is that your government has committed this minister to do everything to find those responsible in the management and in the bodies of these companies for such poor project management, for such a stunt that is happening with this project, and the ministry has done nothing since then, at least we have not received any paper. Nothing has been done by the U.S. Attorney's Office. Nobody did anything. And that, Your Honor, is the problem for me. Now he wants to show up and point his finger back when someone has ever made a decision about this investment. I made it clear. However, the purpose of this meeting and the problem is that from the moment the guarantee was given and the limited price was raised in this House, which is suddenly widely known, although no document adopted in force shows that this investment will be higher by 130, 140 million euros, and no one has yet taken seriously the responsibility, the legality of the conduct of HSE and TES authorities. Although the decisions of the Government and the recommendations of this Parliament are for this purpose. That's where we see the problem. I think that this should be what we are talking about and therefore the conclusion that the current government does not control this investment – because there are no answers to these questions. Today, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you publicly what the final price of the project is and which valid, credible document shows this. That's what I'm asking you. Answer me that question, and I will believe that you are in control of this investment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The next word is mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the minister with the team and all his colleagues and colleagues! I'm one of those MPs who didn't vote in favour of the last guarantee for Project TES 6. The media use word links to describe this project, such as an environmental bomb, a tax incineration plant and an economically driven project. In particular, I think that this is another skeleton from the closet, which must be saved by the Minister of DL, although it was not caused by him and not by our party. It is interesting, however, if we look a little bit at the history that the biggest unnatural economic disaster in Slovenia occurred in the Shaleška Valley in the 1960s, as the former Member of the Socialist Republic of Slovenia named. At that time, they did not build thermal power plants, but they built the so-called EKK, Velenje Energochemical Complex. Its costs reached 6% of Slovenia's GDP and were stopped and abolished in the second half of the 1960s. My cousin, Mr Barovic, a former Member, recently wrote a book entitled Barabbas, they live a long time. And it's obviously going to hold, because we're witnessing to a young man or a new generation of so-called chalice lobbies. For this first disaster, in 1966, banks and politicians finally united that investment was unprofitable and too much for Slovenia, and it was abolished. Only the liquidation costs amounted to 14 billion dinars at the time. Even though some Members had already requested the identification of personal responsibility, even then they had appointed the commission set up to investigate it, nothing had happened, and I hope that this project, the TES 6, will not do so this time. In both cases, strong political lobbying objected to the implementation of the project, which confused economic facts and investment decision-making. In the 1960s, the main problem was that investors did not have precise economic analyses and they invested in blindly in this energy combination. At TES 6, we have many different economic assessments of the project, but we do not know how much corruption has affected the project. We need to get to the bottom of this. I only call the TES 6 a tragic energy storm to the sixth power. And I fear that the launch of TES 6 will be followed by regular losses and a lack of money for other projects – for the Krška Nuclear Power Plant, for the hydropower plant. In Zasavje, we already feel this strongly. Livers of the Thermoelectric Trbovlje. I am aware that the energy self-sufficiency of the country is essential in the global world, but it must be dispersed. And if all the money for energy has already gone to Velenje, I call for you to accept at least the suture buttons that are losing your job because there is no money for suction energy. This billion that went to the TES 6 project would be in need of blood elsewhere, and if I had pointed out in the debate on banks that the bank hole must be a large enough school to finally withdraw from the ownership of banks, then TES 6 is proof that big state projects are not a solution, but rather corruption. And if we want to contain this, we need to find those responsible, perform a forensic examination and find the most economical version of the conclusion of the TES6 project. And it must be admitted that Minister Omerzel was the first to take this seriously, who revealed the data to us and also told us that we had been misled in the past. I am really not an energy expert myself, but I know something – I know that in Slovenia it is necessary to say: enough corruption. And I know that it is necessary to bring to justice all those who are somehow guilty of losing and stealing the taxpayer's money. I believe that Minister Omerzel will do this on Project TES 6 and he has my full support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u28	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister with co-workers and co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! My colleague Bogovic, from our delegation group, explained extensively the facts about the preparation and construction of this big project, such as TES 6, and our position on this project. As has already been said, such a major project must be discussed several times in the National Assembly. This has certainly been lacking in the past, and unfortunately we have never talked about this project in the National Assembly at the initiative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, none so far and not yet. For the first time, we spoke, at least in my conduct, on the proposal of our colleague Bogovic, and for the second time in the context of the guarantee law, when it was certainly impossible to do or change anything else. I, too, was among those who opened the guarantee, because I do not want any huge monument that would produce only negative results and enormous costs, God knows in what future. The fact is that all the procedures around this investment were conducted on the basis of TES, holding and ministry. This ministry, which was unfortunately also – I don't know whether this has helped or not – every time it takes place at another location, from 2000 onwards, once at the ILO, on the economy, on the infrastructure, and again on the economy. Well, it's been changing, but it's where it's been going. Sometimes I say: it was where the minister was most pleased with every single Prime Minister and apparently most trusted by the Prime Minister. Apparently, this is the way it is in the current term. As far as the responsibility of ministers is concerned – I think Minister Omerzel has mentioned several times in the media the responsibility of ministers, all of them, and today I think I have understood, if I have understood correctly, that he claims that the ministry or the minister does not have any authority to lead all things. If I understand you correctly, that's the way it is. I don't understand all this. I am sure that the responsibility lies both with TES and with the holding company and with every ministry that runs this project. Of course, it would certainly be best to have the National Assembly involved in this from the very beginning, but, as I said in the introduction, it was not by any means – by the time the National Assembly discussed at the request of our colleague, and the second time we discussed the guarantee, it was all too late. I am certainly not the only one – at least we are probably united here – who I believe from the very beginning is likely to have made many mistakes and misleads, and consequently there is a great potential for corruption risks. I therefore support a thorough review of the entire project from start to finish by all the metrology institutions we have in the country. If a special law is required to do so, I will be very happy to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maria Plevčak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Hello, everyone! TEM 6 has already been spoken a great many words, both in earlier times and now. And it inevitably holds the conclusion made by our representative that we are obviously unable to bring such a project such as TES 6 to the place, financially and politically. It is true that this is the largest project in Slovenia and that there have been major, I still hope, manipulations. But not by Alstom, who works, editing in TES 6, because as far as I have information, a very strong contract has been concluded on their part and also at great cost in the event of termination of the contract. Thus, external factors are likely to be excluded in all these high irritations. I am interested, however, in the fact that the building intervenes in the municipality of Šostanj and Velenje, which is the linkage, because we know that in the event of major investments parallel construction or upgrading of certain infrastructure facilities that are not directly connected to the building. That is why I am convinced that the finances of these municipalities and Velenje mines should also be well vented, because, according to my information, otherwise, the finances in the mine are very poor. That's why I think there's a lot of corruption. And the task of the minister, who has shown us quite frankly and visually the research carried out by the Ministry so far, is great, and I expect that at the end of his research, as well as the commissions and supervisory authorities involved, he will pour us pure wine. It is said that he will show us the real amount, the one that is upsetting us all today, which is making us doubtful, and that this will be as soon as possible. One deadline will probably have to be set so that we know where the money that is intended for TES 6 is still running out, because it is probably going somewhere. Of course, I should not forget to mention the delegation of management structures to both TES and Holding Slovenian Power Plants. For, as has been seen, this comes from the Slovenian Compensation Society, which then operates down into the supervisory councils, and most often there is also a policy that delegates its sympathizers. So once again: I hope that the project will be completed and somehow I demand that the Minister inform us of all the true findings, whatever they will be, even if it will be a billion and a half, that we will once drink pure wine and we will say: this is it. Not that we will always just guess, debate, and have needless waste of time in the National Assembly, which we could use for something smarter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! TEM 6 we are talking about in the National Assembly at least in this mandate, in which we are all here together, there are good two years, four times, five times, and always one and the same stories. But in the beginning, I would rather have my fellow Member, Mr Meh, who said that we are lying to Christian Democrats and that our Member is a colleague of mags. In his position, Matthew Tonin deceived the Slovenian public by saying that between €35 million and €50 million will be the annual loss of TES at existing electricity prices. This is not an invention, this was published in Dnevnik on 12 June 2013 and published by research journalist Primož Cirman. I can do it again. 12 June 2013, officially published in Dnevnik. That is why last year's Christian Democrats have opposed and voted against the country's 440 million-euro guarantee, because we have not received any answers as to where, how, how money has run out so far, and no assurance that this will be done. We did not agree that in TES, in this energy sector, there are so many powerful lobbyists who are taking this country to ruin. The investment in TES 6 has long been a bottomless pit that swallows up more and more taxpayer money. Yes, the taxpayer's money, which is also declining in this situation in Slovenia. For example: 4.2 billion for bank recovery, 1.4 billion for the guarantee of TES 6. The vows are still open to Dars. The rehabilitation of the Factor Bank and Probank – my dear colleagues, someone is making fun of citizens and taxpayers. 200 000 euros a year is the cost of large families when they lose their children in the labour market and decide to care for these children. It is 200 000 euros and will be abolished or reduced from 10 years to 6 years by a new social benefit law. 230 000 euros is the annual cost of operating a hospital or hospice. I hope you all know what hospice is. We've been to the Health Committee. Unfortunately, some of you were missing. There we would face real life, what it is, and for this country there is EUR 230 000 too much. We have been prolonging this agony since 2010. 150,000 is a one-off cost, estimated for burial, of digging up the victims in Barbara's trench. We're delaying that, too. 150 000 euros is of great importance to this country's fifth memory, as we all hear. We're putting it somewhere, too. It seems to me that this is a disgrace to all of us sitting here. And where is it being saved? It saves on large families, on children, it saves on the dead, dying — including funerals and postpartums saved on them. Yeah, what does that mean? Exactly, I see you're wondering what that means. It's a disgrace to the government. This means that a million €400,000 means that the 37 000 pensioners we have and somehow receive a profit of €400 per month would pay pensions for 25 years with this money. This means the cost of the Chestnut power plant. We are aware that this is only the tip of the iceberg, that TES 6 is part of Slovenian energy policy, which is controlled by the lobby in one way or another. That is why I expect this story to be solved, and above all, that all things will not be done on the shoulders of all those who need to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The Minister, Mr Samo Omerzel, also asked for the floor. I give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u34	Madam President, thank you for your word. Your Honor! There was something about this debate that we are now talking about what we have done and the opposition's perception that we have done nothing. I have to admit that all this work that was done in our department really wasn't easy. A lot of work has been done, but there are always the facts that count. I hope today to say that for the first time in the history of this investment we have asked questions and put on the table some information and information that has never been disclosed before. We have presented the entire vertical of decision-making and key events in history. Not only that, we have systematically taken the whole view of investment and operations of TES and have an impact on holding and also on us as a country, and we have also proposed solutions for the future. So we did not only do research on the problem, but we also did represent solutions for the future. Mr. Visjak mentioned that he believed the documents he had signed on the table. Mr. Vizjak, I must say I don't believe every document they've put on my table signed, and I don't believe the NIP 5. Why am I disappointed in your statement? Mr. Vizjak, in the past you have been a departmental minister of energy, you have been the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Holding of Slovenian Power Plants, and you have studied electrical engineering. I also studied electrical engineering, and in NIP 5, if you read it, there are key elements missing. Energy with 2,25 is below the coal price, no sensitivity analysis is done, and if we look at only a fraction of electricity sales – there is no electricity in NIP 5. The dynamics I was talking about earlier. Mr Vizjak, behind the competences, for your history, I would expect you to expect that when the NIP 5 was the basis for the guarantee, as a referee, all the Members who then gave support for this guarantee would be prevented from being misled. Mr. Visjak, this thing is very simple for me. Your answer about energy work is also going this way. Either you were deceiving Members at the time or you were incompetent for the function you were performing. And as far as our work is concerned, I assure you that what we are currently presenting is nowhere near what we are going to do. There's still a lot to do. What is crucial – Mr Praprotnik mentioned to me in the debate on the Committee that the institutions dealing with the TEC are actively engaged. I'm talking about the police, KPK. We have already laid the groundwork for the Court of Auditors in SDH to be able to carry out its tasks, and if an additional legal basis is needed to enable all these institutions to operate in a coordinated manner in this country, this government will also take care of this.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The text is wanted by the proposer. Here you go, Mr. Andrey Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u36	I don't know when these deceptions will be over, Minister. Previously, you said that when I was the NIP 5 when it came in and when it was sent to this House, I was the referee minister. That's what you said. I wasn't a reputable minister back then, Mr. Omerzel. At the time, I was Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. There was no energy involved in the department of labour, family, social affairs, if you don't know it. You said that when the NIP 5 came into existence, it was a department minister, which is not true! And NIP 5 was the basis for the issued guarantee. The NIP 5 was made by the Heat Power Plant Shoštanj. The NIP 5 was set on fire by all the authorities of this company, probably Holdinga Slovenske Power Plant. NIP 5 was reviewed by KPMG. The NIP 5 confirmed as credible all the Members who confirmed the guarantee with the government at the head. You today explicitly said that the NIP 5 was misleading that there were numbers inside, that it was incompletely done. That's what you said. Now, I ask you, dear Minister, if this is true, what procedures have you initiated against those who have deceived the government, ministers, parliament, in short, all those who have made decisions based on these false numbers in your opinion. You, the Minister-in-charge, received a mandate from your Government and the National Assembly in July – I will read the recommendation: "...imposes the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, the Ministry of Finance, in cooperation with the State Defence Office, to prepare a report within three months on the legality of the conduct of HSE and TES authorities and, in the event of irregularities, proposes measures to protect the interests of the Republic of Slovenia." This, Your Honor, was your assignment, which you were given, which you did not do. It is also stated that the National Assembly proposes to the Government to report to it by 30 November 2013 on the implementation of the decisions of the Government and those recommendations. You didn't report it. Today you are saying that we have all been misled, that we should, with our expertise, oppose the amendment of the investment programme, which was made by several doctors, masters of science of specific skills, which was reviewed for this authorised institution, which was adopted by the government and Parliament, and that you doubt that, at the same time, you have not initiated one procedure to arrest the tailor of those who have deceived this country to make decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, the suspension of the criminal offence is a problem. You're clearly abandoning your duty. In fact, under the Penal Code, any act that by means of a false document is a statement seduced by an administrative authority, anyone to take any decision that they would not otherwise have committed a crime. And if you know that this has happened, you're obliged to announce it, and I'm asking you publicly who you've ever announced it to. I have to respect certain documents as long as they are signed and authentic. You don't have a document, a well-respected minister to prove the credibility of the Novelled Investment Programme 5. You don't have this document. Moreover, you challenge the value of, say, coal prices as an important price for the economy of this investment – 2.25 euros for gigajoule. This energy price was the subject of a contract signed by the Director of Premogovnik Velenje with the Director of Holding of the Slovenian Power Plant and the Director of Termoelectrica Šostanj. That's the contract price! You're saying at this price it won't be possible to do. What do you mean by that? What action did you take against the gentlemen who signed this treaty? Mr Milan Medved, who signed this contract for this price, is still Director of Velenje Coal. This is said to be what you dispute with everyone, say with your finger on others, and you have not acted against those responsible by one step. You do not implement the Government's decisions, you do not implement the Guarantee Act to rent a loan to build a block 6, you have not prepared documents, not a revised investment programme, nor a revision of this project, and you claim that we have all been misled in the past, except you. Where did this behavior inspire you if you do not have one document to rely on? I mean, Mr. Secretary, and it's hard to convince me that you want to deliberately inflate an investment and give it to anyone else to make a profit.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Brane Golubovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister with a team, nice greeting! On the infrastructure committee, we talked about the truth about TES. I'm just afraid that today's debate, which I take seriously and I expect from it, we will also get some direction, solutions for the Slovenian electricity industry, in the direction of accusing each other of who is to blame and who is not to blame. This is not constructive, and the past should be dealt with by those responsible. If the National Assembly has to adopt a law to allow certain authorities to review a case as comprehensive as the TEC, it should do so. If we are talking about the truth about TES, this truth is that, as TES led, it is a pattern of managing Slovenian state investments. Here you have already mentioned highways, where we have a certain bank hole, after all the second route of Divaca-Koper – prices range from 700 million and come over a billion, and it is now said that again for 900 and 700 million. Somehow I have a feeling that this pattern is going on, as has been the case with major investment projects in Slovenia so far, so that a narrow group of people have made a decision, it can also be well intentioned that this project must be implemented without professional grounds. She made up her mind, and then she took the next steps. At TES, it was also one of the steps to hide this interest under local and national interests, and the media supported this project. And when we talk about responsibility, there is more responsibility – I agree with that – and the policy is also responsible from 2004 and 2005 until the end of December 2012, when the guarantee law was passed in the National Assembly. Whether it was right that the guarantee law was passed or not — at this point I will not drop, but the responsibility of politics is quite the same in all these periods. When I looked through the TES project, what was possible, and what the ministry sent – I have a feeling somehow that the need for such an investment, after the TES 6, 600-megawat block, was not checked with the care of the good host, and that this need would give different options and choose the best option. And that, on the basis of the best option chosen, ideas, pre-investment projects, etc., could be initiated so that the owner, the investor, could make a very sovereign decision at the end. These are very short steps in some normal business world when you invest with your money. When I listen to the most responsible ones at TES 6, and they do not yet come from politics when they talk about €692 million, why this investment was at the beginning of 692 million, I have the feeling that it was just technological equipment, not the entire investment programme. This is kind of like reporting an investment in your house that you would build, but in an investment you would take into account only the construction of walls and roofs and connections to infrastructure. That's how you get the feeling that at first it's decided. And from this point of view, if there were truly signed doctors, the profession, it is difficult for a minister, even if there was a president of the HSE Supervisory Board, and the leadership of HSE would not believe that. Where would you come from if you didn't trust the ones most responsible to prepare responsible projects? And at TES 6, this is my personal opinion, a group of people met in one lunch and decided to abuse this project until the stage in which it is. And in advance, it was agreed who would be the contractor or who would deliver the equipment. An invitation, which was or cannot be made to him because it did not go under the Public Procurement Act, but a call or notice to potential tenderers – was published if I have the right information found in the Official Journal of the EU in September 2006 – narrowed the choice to only two possible suppliers of this technology with some technological requirements. Then one was eliminated for such and other reasons, and one remained. Why does it lead me to think that a certain group of people have agreed on how this business will take place? Because if you look at one of the daily news links today, and if you take who has advised the management of TES on this investment, who has prepared the project documentation for the invitation to tender, who was a member of the technical commission, you will find – of course, this is probably a coincidence – that this company, which carried out all of this for TES 6, is indirectly linked to Alstom. Alstom got the job. And if someone here tells me that it's not a bad idea that nothing has been agreed in advance, and that our organs have not done anything concrete, at least to the public known, except some housework, then I'll be very disappointed. Because the TES 6 project was not transparent. In fact, he was led by an under-thinking, unprofessional, corrupt, and under the cover of national and local interest today placed in a very difficult position one of the pillars of Slovenian energy, HSE. Let me mention one more thing that can be traced from the media — that TES management has been warned that Alstom’s contract is beneficial. It was warned by a foreign reputable law firm, but it simply overheard. Why not? TES and this history, who were all involved in the way projects were conducted, could be debated long and wide. Another purely banal case, and I stress that no one will misinterpret me that everyone since 2005 has been, three governments have been, co-responsible. What a responsibility this is, it'll show time. But one of these governments decided in 2010 to rent a foreign house that would study the meaning of TES 6 - 2010. This is done in 2005, 2006, when you start a project to determine whether a project makes sense or not, not once in a row. And that's why it's a liability. The first government initially granted an energy permit for the 500-megawatt block and then within a bad year for the 600-megawatt, when the project was already approved when the investment programme was already in place. I want to say how this was done and that it is the responsibility of everyone, especially those who led the TES, who were present at these lunches and who also led the HSE. But how do we proceed now? Above all, this is the issue on which we need to focus. On the Infrastructure Committee, we were able to hear from the KPK representative that they are confident that the individual bodies investigating TES 6 will not be able to fully investigate the project because of the limitations of the powers they have, the resources. When we talk about the integrity of this project – it is important for me to look for those accused of being prosecuted, but it is also important for me to check whether all the actors in this project have acted as custodians, prudent public finance managers after all. My proposal, very concrete, is that you, the Minister of Justice, who in a way has now presented very thoroughly all the problems of this project and the solutions for the future, together with the Minister of Finance, the Ministry of Finance, examine how a model could be established where the powers of the Court of Auditors, the KPK, the Police, the NPU, the Prosecutor's Office, the tax authorities could be established, and a specialised team would be made 24 hours a day to check only the TES 6 project. This model could also be transferred to a bank hole and also to some other major projects in the Republic of Slovenia. If we are going to seriously explore the past, then let these authorities really do. If marriage is required, marriage should also be made. As to how to resolve the HSE, which was in an unenviable position after what we heard from the Director-General on the Infrastructure Committee – this year alone will have 200 million liquidity problems, the Director said. In the next three years, they'll have problems. My view and my position is that, first of all, it is necessary to remove all people from leadership positions because they, too, — I do not say to what extent — are responsible for this situation that we are facing today. What has been said in this Chamber today is that a director of the Velenje Coal Mine is still in position and participating in this project today, and we are negotiating whether 2.25 euros per gigajoule will be the right price or will have to be raised. We're talking and we're negotiating with the same man who said that he could do it for 7.8 years. It's just a little pebble in this mosaic. Unfortunately, they had their chance. They didn't take it out, and that's why we need to give new people a chance. Because, otherwise, what TES 6 looked like at the beginning would have been if it had been driven the way it should have been if Alstom had already decided, it would have been two typical equipment that Alstom was offering at the time, 345-megawatt, and would have restored the 5th block, or 800-megawatt, which would have been too much, but these were two type equipment. No, then the TEŠ leadership decided at that luncheon to be 600-megawatt, and it's like a car ordered. That's why it was all so much more expensive. But in Slovenia it is good that the project is as expensive as possible because then it is easier to hide, and also the patriarchs, when we ordered them, we ordered them without weapons, we finally found them. These are things you don't do when you do things for your own money. Now I'm gonna finish it slowly. One measure is the withdrawal of all managers; the other is to close the investment of the TEC as soon as possible, to verify the economy of operations. We probably do not have all the data and we are not competent to study the economy of action. And to solve the liquidity problems of HSE: business rationalisation, disinvestment. Coal Velenje also deals with tourism, which was good then, because once it closes, it can deal with something, but today it is no longer a good investment. The drone power plants have a deposit that I wouldn't personally go to, but also. And the last option, which is not my idea and it was said on the Infrastructure Committee by the Director-General of HSE – the sale of hydroelectric plants on the lower Sava to the second pillar. The second pillar is healthy, without credit and can complete this investment, which is extremely important for the development of Slovenian energy and especially for the economy. As the committee said, hydroelectric plants can be completed by themselves, i.e. Slovenia, in the vast majority. So, Minister, I expect you to listen in particular today to concrete and well-intentioned proposals and address them. But leave the unproductive debate on the past to those who have cooperated in the past, not to yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u39	Thank you very much. As a proponent, you have the floor, mag. Andrej Vizjak. Let's get the mags ready. Andrej Shircelj, Mr. Samo Bevk and Dr. Jožef Kunič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u40	Thank you very much. With most of what Mr Golubovic said, I agree. I think it's very unproductive, what we've been doing for days and weeks -- we're talking about the history of this project and we're showing with our finger up, down, down to politics, and it's very infertile, because we probably have law enforcement agencies in this country, we have institutions to recognize and punish those responsible for bad decisions, for inconvenientity and so on. Mr. Golubovic, we agreed on this once before in Parliament, that was 17. Seven. 2013, more than half a year ago. Therefore, we have also adopted, in accordance with your proposal, a recommendation to the Government or the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, together with the Office of the Defence, to verify the legality of the conduct of HSE and TEC authorities, and if it detects any irregularities, it will send the lawfulness of the conduct of HSE and TEC authorities to the law enforcement authorities. We agreed on that. In this context, the decision of the Government was also adopted two days earlier. Dear Mr Golubovic, nothing has happened since then. Parliament also adopted a decision to draw up a report on this and to send it to Parliament. We didn't get that report. Yesterday, however, we received a report from the State Attorney's Office, which discusses a completely different subject, which discusses the possibility of repealing or nullity of the Alstom-TES Treaty. This is the first time that you have read this report that the judiciary is not even competent to assess the legality of the conduct of economic authorities. That's what it said in there. If you don't believe me, I'll read it to you. That's why I think if you find out today and together we find it very sad that the ministry hasn't done anything about it in six months. There's nothing the Ministry has done about it. I will fully sign your proposals, but I'm afraid that in six months we'll be sitting here again and finding that nothing is done again, and this will happen again. And you're going to have to put up with all this and play nice here because of your blind faith in this coalition, but nothing's going to happen. And that's not right. That is why I believe that this investment is also a problem because it is being auctioned, and we do not even know how much. Before that, I asked the Minister how much this investment would cost at the end. We have adopted a law in Parliament confirming the guarantee for the rental of a loan of 440 million. Mr Blaž Kosorok, who is the Director of Holding of the Slovenian Power Plant, said that the risk of cashing out the guarantee is great – I quote – which means that these matters are not to be played out. And today we don't know how much this investment is going to cost. In the SDS Group, we insist that this investment should not exceed the value of the NIP 5, i.e. EUR 1.3 billion. The Minister says that this value is unrealistic, that it has been known since the beginning that it will be greater, with no authentic adopted document to prove it. And I'm asking him how much this investment is going to be in the end. And you know when we'll find out? When the investment is made, when all the bills are paid, then someone will triumphantly come and say: it cost so much. If any of us ever made an investment at home, we tried to optimize the investment at the time of the investment or at the beginning, not at the end of the day when all the bills were already on display. And this is what we want to tell the Minister – that we will end up facing the facts that have been carried out, and we will be aware of how much investment there is, and this is not an investment programme, but a list of completed works, and we cannot allow this to happen, and even less can we allow the guarantee law to be violated. And the purpose of this meeting is only two – otherwise it has already been covered by the conclusions of the Government and the recommendations – that the investment is carried out within the framework, as it was adopted some year ago in this Parliament, and that the responsible, who have deceived ministers, Members, the government, the National Assembly, are brought before the law enforcement authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, we haven't done one or the other, but it's been six months since we've committed this government to do so. That is why we are discussing this today because we want something to move today and to start doing something about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Shircelj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister! The fact is, this project was designed long before you performed this function. You accepted a project at some stage, and then the investment programme was the one that was supposed to be implemented. This investment programme was discussed in this National Assembly, in this Parliament as well as in June 2012, and at that time the Finance Committee, which discussed TES for more than 20 hours in a series of meetings, also gave instructions to the government and to the Government on how this project must end. On the basis of the NIP 5, the Guarantee Act was adopted and contracts with the European Investment Bank were adopted under the Guarantee Act, which means that this is an international project. After all, we also have a European Development Bank here, which is also funding this project. In short, the question is: given that you've come with some, I can say that internal documents that no body has confirmed, or the control council, with a new issue, that's a billion 430 thousand, how will this affect international obligations, and how will this affect those who have given us these loans? In fact, as has already been said, international treaties and international commitments signed by the Republic of Slovenia may be violated here, and this is your task or the task of this government to settle these matters. In fact, if the guarantee is cashed out, then Slovenian taxpayers will simply pay an additional 440 million for the project, and given that you do not have a certified NIP 6 programme, probably not because you cannot agree on what the coal price will be, but because the coal price actually depends on the whole project, this is the first question. I think that just changing the price of this project for the international public is unworthy and harmful. Here's the question of what's gonna happen. In addition to not having done the NIP 6, you have not done an international audit and have not reported whether the management authorities have acted legally. In this connection, I am interested in the fact that you have shown some numbers here, and these numbers come from, as you yourself said, that this project will increase by 126 million, of which about 67 million for equipment. Minister, why will the price of this equipment project increase? Why does the price increase at the end of the project, and why did you have to make sure that this is the case? After all, it should be all in all the programs. If we were Members, if we got the wrong information from management, and you're saying that we were misled, that we never got the right information, what you did with your powers, that these people, who are known from the magnetograms, what they were saying, were told by the law enforcement authorities or those you listed here. Here is the question: do your data hold that this project, and under what assumption, will only have a loss in the first three years, as you say? Then there's supposed to be a profit. Here today I have listened to Minister Virant that if this project is not profitable, then we will not support or have to close it. What will you do if this project is not profitable? And what are you going to do about the HSE that's on the verge of liquidity shock? The Director-General, President of the Management Board, however, Mr Kosorok, points out inefficiencies. What will you do in the event of the bankruptcy of HSE, in the case of the bankruptcy of TES, because on the other hand you are auctioning this project for 116 million? In this regard, I would like answers, comprehensive of course, and also all the documents you need to deliver to the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Only Bevk has the word. After him, Dr. Jožef Kunic, and after him, Mr. Franz Pukšič and then Mr. Daniel Krivec should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u44	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! From the beginning, the investment was unrealistic. I think that when it was first recorded in the national energy programme, there was no figure, but then, if I am not mistaken, the first number appeared in the Resolution on National Development Projects 2007-2023, adopted at the government meeting on 12 October 2006, and this document also contains a price for block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectrica, EUR 602 million, and funding exclusively from private sources. Minister Sam Omerzel, on the Committee on Infrastructure and Space, I think he presented the issue of this investment comprehensively for the first time so far and served with real numbers. Everything that has happened in the past, especially the first number, 602 million, has been extremely unrealistic. There are also 35 major projects worth €24 billion in this document. Among them are energy projects, as TES 6 says at 602 million, but among the energy projects is the second block of the nuclear power plant in this brochure, approved by the government in October 2006. And the second block of the nuclear power plant is estimated at only EUR 2 billion in this document. I hope that when the current nuclear power plant project is in Krskem, we will not be operating on this document again, because when I look at the cost of nuclear power plants today – for example, Russia is supposed to be building two nuclear reactors in Hungary at their only Paks power plant and it is supposed to be an investment of 10 billion euros for two nuclear reactors. This is significantly more than we planned in this 2006 government document. In 2010, Obama announced a guarantee for the construction of a nuclear power plant in the United States of America of €8 billion. So I think all these projects from 2006 in this brochure, adopted by the government, have been assessed over the thumb. Therefore, it is unfair for public data to appear, that investment has increased from EUR 600 million to a billion, to EUR 100, 200, 300, 400, because that is not true. What was the main reason why the government then decided to invest? Because I think we need her. Thus it was written: 'The interest of each country is to first use favourable domestic resources and thereby limit dependence on imports. The reduction of dependence on imports implies the need to build a larger coal unit on domestic lignite. The alternative solution is to put a large gas-fired power plant on natural gas, which is less suitable due to dependence on gas imports and price increases." This was a justification for the construction of the 6th block seven years ago. I also think that Slovenia has the ideal ratio of electricity production. One third is produced from hydropower plants, one third from a nuclear power plant and one third from thermal power plants. It is said that this type of production cannot be cancelled by our country. Now, when it comes to the joke lobby, it is also necessary to say what the Shale Valley has sacrificed for the fact that since the end of the 19th century the mine has been lignite, that since the end of World War II it has been operating and functioning there. What are the consequences? The villages disappeared, the land collapsed, the lakes were built, the Škals were no more, the Druzmir was no more, 2 thousand people were displaced, new lakes were created, Skalsko, Druzmirsko, Velenjska and so on. It is said that the great contribution of this area, these people in terms of environmental degradation, is ecological problems. If we wanted to put some thermal power plant in a different location today, I don't know where people would allow such an investment, because there would be immediate civil initiatives that would prevent any thought of building a thermal power plant anywhere else in Slovenia. So we have to be right to the people in this valley. And I think it's right that this investment continues. What would happen if we stopped this investment? This was also very thoroughly presented to the committee on Tuesday this week. The sunken cost of Block 6 – so called, is terminology – would be EUR billion 50 million; the renewal of blocks 4 and 5 would cost EUR 500 million; higher costs of raw materials and emissions would be estimated at [[Incomprehensible]] , closing Coal Velenje to EUR 250 million, failing to recover Coal Velenje at the time of the reconstruction of the blocks of EUR 4 and EUR 5 50 million, and failing to recover the Spatial Power Plant of Šostanj at the time of the renewal of EUR 80 million. So these costs would be extremely high. I think that these costs should also include the cost of restructuring the economy in the Savini-Shales region. Indeed, a thousand 300 jobs in the mine would be too much, or the miners would be out of work and employment. A thousand 300 people in connected companies would have lost their jobs. This is about 2 000 600 people, and the cost of unemployment is very high. I can't imagine that this investment could be preserved today, because the cost of stopping Block 6 is approaching the investment in Block 6 itself, so that when production stops there would be no more revenue. However, I agree with what we have also found on the Committee that all irregularities in this investment must also be fully resolved and, as has been said, adjusted accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Ms Maša Kociper will now discuss instead of Dr Jožef Kunič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to begin with one paragraph, which was put forward today by the proposer of this meeting, which, even as a proposaler himself, found that interfering with what someone has done in the past and what someone is guilty with is unproductive, and that such finger pointing at each other would not lead us anywhere else. I absolutely agree with that. I would like to point out, however, that no one can point to Positive Slovenia in this regard because we were not present in this story. I'm going to say that unfortunately we weren't there. Unfortunately, because maybe it would be different if we were. You never know what might change the path of this project in the past. Unfortunately, I say in particular because, despite the fact that we were not present, obviously on this government, it is our responsibility to take a bite into this sour apple. Obviously, we will be solving all the worst problems in this country in 20 years, during the time of this government, which is being run by my client. And I'm not going to repeat who's responsible because he's more responsible. The project began at the time of the government of Janez Janša. That's not an issue. It's called SDS. He obtained an energy permit from Minister Andrej Visiak – SDS. The actual financial consequences of the contract were initialled by Mr Franz Zagozhen – SDS. Then, at the time of the Pahor government, Minister Križanič, SD, and Minister Lahovnik, the party, if necessary, missed the opportunity to redefine the project in a different direction. And today we are where we are, by having to solve this problem today. And in view of the long and extensive discussions also on the committee, where you are all now finding the same – that the costs of closing the project at this point are unacceptable and greater than the completion of the project. I think that the project must now be completed, and there is no longer any doubt. That is why I am not going to deal with this or the areas that are not my concern and I am not going to get to know them, but I will focus on the question of responsibility. What we need to talk about here today and what this government needs to talk about is also a matter of responsibility. Not only are political responsibilities – many political decision makers are not even in office anymore, but that does not mean that they cannot bear certain political responsibilities. For example, in this sense, these actions will be recalled when they want to run for political office again. Then we, you and the citizens, will remember who could have diverted the path of this catastrophe, but it is not. Some of us are sitting among us. I do not want to talk about political responsibility, but about other possible forms of responsibility, such as criminal, doubtless, indemnity and ultimately also tax, although this concept is rarely used. We have various mechanisms to do something about this moment. Not exactly the government, but us as a society. Criminal responsibility is something that can definitely be followed by those who may have misused their powers or committed any other crime in this regard. Indemnity is something that can produce concrete results in terms of the recovery of the damage that has occurred. The damage caused must be clearly identified and claimed. This makes it possible for us to be compensated. Finally, we also have the amended Tax Procedure Act, where we can find out by means of certain elements, such as the tax gap, who took advantage of this matter. People in the valley of Shaleska say that it is possible to physically see some people who have been interesting in recent years for not entirely clear reasons to have significantly improved their wealth status. It is said that we have the opportunity to confiscate property under the Penal Code, if it is a crime, we have the opportunity to confiscate illegal property arising from these crimes, and we have the possibility of a tax break-up, taxation at a 70% rate of those who have acquired something and have not reported it. That all these elements exist is clear, but what is not quite clear is how to get there, and that is the essence of my debate. As far as I'm aware, a bunch of audits on TES have already been done. Audits have already been made in the past by more or less favoured companies that carried out these audits, if necessary. What we have to do is really independent, possibly forensic, revision, if this term can be used, which will look from the outside with magnifying glass into everything that has happened. On the one hand, the audit can be something that the Court of Auditors will do, and on the other hand, we are talking about — right now, the term — forensic audit that could be done by means of a foreign research or audit institution. This, of course, will cost something, and we must all be aware of it, but when it is done, we will, hopefully, finally not only have specific information about whether or not TO CLOS or what is going to happen, but also specific information about who should be persecuted from what title criminally, indemnity and so on, as I said before, and who may be carrying political responsibility. Because I think that's what's been going on so far. Those involved did not wish to provide the law enforcement authorities and others with all the necessary information so that the procedures could be initiated. And it's also obvious that setting back procedures and clearing back something that's going to happen under this government. The tycoons, as it were, will have to come out of the TES case sooner than later. And they too will have to return property if they illegally acquire it. I hope and hope that we will soon see them entering the courthouse, as we now see others. I am in favour of talking about what can be done, and what this coalition has done is already an important step in this direction. In Article 68 of the Slovenian State Holding Act, which is now in second reading, it allowed the Court of Auditors to amend the Law on the Court of Auditors, Article 20, which will now allow the Court of Auditors to review it. That's one step in the right direction. More than legislation, this coalition cannot do this moment, and calls on Minister Omerzel to make this investment cheaper, I find it ridiculous. What should he do now — take three plates down there and send them back to cost less? In short, whatever we have adopted in this House – if the costs are higher if the contracts are signed, it cannot be solved now by Omerzel, and not by me when I debate, please, Mr Vizjak. In short, we will allow this audit to the Court of Auditors, which could indeed have been done long ago in the past. Whether with a mandatory interpretation of the law or with a proposal from the Court of Auditors, we could have done so five years ago, later or at any time. And while we're at it, the supervisory institutes have canceled everything here in a row. Something for the reasons that I listed because they didn't have the data because the audits were ordered by those who didn't want the truth to be revealed, and something because they simply failed. The KPK also plays its part here. It is significantly easier, I agree, to examine the property of one person and issue an opinion rather than to get well into this problem of TES, in this complex matter of TES. However, the harmful consequences of this title — perhaps all of us — are enormous. Just as the KPK went to look at specific health-care cases systematically – this is their task – and found out where corruption was occurring in health care and found that there was a critical particular area of public procurement, so someone here should also find out where the money in the streams of the project was flowing so that today we were 100% more than we thought we would. I would conclude with the hope that the Government will do everything in its power not to bury other important infrastructure projects and projects in the field of energy in Slovenia. This is also a very important mission of Positive Slovenia and part of our programme to make these things happen. And secondly, that the government, along with your help, not only will you stay by the word, will do everything in its power not to result in an excessive social bomb in the Shaleska Valley. Because if someone isn't to blame and someone doesn't deserve to pay for everything that's been going on and for all past mistakes, it's the miners, the workers there, and the innocent, it's nothing to blame for the people who didn't have this project pumped into a billion 400, not even the euro. In short, we demand responsibility in the sense that all supervisory authorities should carry out their work, all institutions, including law enforcement authorities, and that the Government continues to work in this direction as it has begun. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Vizjak as a candidate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u48	What we just heard is an eccentric form of deception. First he says he doesn't want to point his finger back, then he points his finger back. It is then stated that Positive Slovenia is committed to making an independent audit, an expert audit to bring those responsible before the time of justice. Your Honor, all of this has been concluded by the Government since 15. Seven. 2013 The Government adopted conclusions and instructed the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space to prepare, through an international specialised independent company, a review of possible options and a proposal for further steps related to the investment to make the Novel Investment Programme 6 and that the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, the Ministry of Finance and the State Defence prepare and review within 3 months the legality of the conduct of the responsible persons at TES and HSE. Your Honor, we've already loaded all this and the government of Alenka Bratusek has already loaded it, and nothing has been done. That was all done. This was imposed on the competent authorities, both by the Government and by this Parliament, last July. It wasn't done. And here today, the Ambassador of Positive Slovenia tells me once again what should be done. If it's not cheating! This is what we concluded six months ago that it is necessary to do, and it is not done, and now you see again that it is necessary to do so. And we only want to tell you one thing. We do not say, respectable from Positive Slovenia, Members or Members of Positive Slovenia, that you are responsible or guilty of chronology, the history of this event. Not at all. Actually, we're not pointing at anyone here. With full responsibility in the introduction, I said that, when I was a minister and decided on it, I believed on the basis of the data at the time, on the basis of the circumstances at the time and on the basis of the professional assessments at the time, that this was a useful, economic and energy-friendly facility, and there is no doubt about it at all. And I also warned when the situation changed significantly, the ones responsible for it were wise to think about it. No, the matter continued, but once again, you have no responsibility in Positive Slovenia. However, you have a responsibility in Positive Slovenia as the largest coalition party to recommend this Parliament with 17. Seven. 2013 which, I hope, are known and clear, impose on the Ministry and the Government to report to Parliament on the implementation of these decisions by the Government, which were adopted two days earlier at the written meeting, on these issues, on the independent audit, on the determination of the responsibility of the authorities of companies, not least on the pouring of pure wine on this investment. Dearly beloved, today, for the first time, we have not initiated any proceedings against those responsible, since there are no reports of this and we do not know the final price of the investment – since no one has presented it, despite my threefold question on this subject – which would come from some credible documents, but not from the feelings and feelings of this or that, including the official, it does not matter. In short, we can agree on all of this, but we have already agreed on it. There was nothing done, and it would be good to do something. And one more thing, Madam Kociper, because I see that you will replicate to me that you will have something more to do. On Tuesday evening, Minister Omerzel, when we discussed this issue on the Committee, said that the State Attorney's Office had prepared a report on the implementation of Decision 7 of the Government, that is to say regarding the determination of the legality of the functioning of the TES and HSE authorities, but that it could not be submitted because it did not receive a green light from the defence. For the first time, I hear that the State Defence has sent a green light for the publication of a document which, by the way, has already been sent to both the Government and the Ministry of Finance and infrastructure and so on. He didn't want to give the MPs this report and he was deceiving us that he didn't get the green light. When we checked that later, we found that this Court of Auditors report, for the first time, does not talk about it at all, does not talk about establishing the legality of the conduct of the authorities of these companies, but speaks of the possibility of nullifying Alstom's contract with TES. Moreover, it did not carry any degree of confidentiality, internal nature or anything else, and the Minister was clearly misleading Members to consider some material that could not be presented. That is why we have not taken a decision on the same committee to oblige the Minister to submit this report to us within a few days. After seeing him break it, he did it himself. By the way, we have already obtained this report from the Office of the Defence, and I myself have spoken to the President of the State Defence, who has confirmed to me that there are no reasons not to get it. These are obvious deceptions, lies that obviously happen by this government, and thus we have a problem, respectable.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mrs. Masha Kociper has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u50	Mr Visjak, in something I agree with you – that we are repeating what I have said has already been said. Yes, of course, because you repeat, because everything you said today has already been said at that session you are talking about now in July. Since you repeat your accusations, then we repeat ourselves with the answers. That is so, but you are deceiving because you want to show what this government could do from those conclusions forward, but it is not, and I am explaining to you that you have been on the government as well as the other side, years and years before these independent audits could have been obtained. The owner or the Court may, during your one-year term, be in front of us, and when you know much more about this investment than we know, you have done exactly what you are now asking of us. You've been involved with this project all along, you personally, and you've been monitoring it all along, and all these consequences have been reported during your government. Then our government will come, and you as saviors will appear to solve the problem of TES, and our government has needed a lot of time first, and this is a fine explanation that it has found out where we are, because we have received misleading information because we are new to this story because we do not know this story. It is therefore necessary to understand that things require time, and we have shown serious purposes by allowing the Court of Auditors to be audited by amending the SDH Act, which allows for the fastest reaction. And then we move on. But in order for you to request an external audit as owner, if the Court will do so, the Ministry just can't, you need to have clear information and know clearly what the problem is. Above all, during this time, the Minister had to come to light with what you have also requested all the time, whether the project continues or stops. And these are things that are now clearing up and going in the exact direction that you're talking about. So as long as you repeat your accusations, I will repeat myself with the answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The motioner has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Visac.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u52	Dear Mrs. Kociper! At the time I was responsible for energy, I always met the government's conclusions. I'd love to have you wait here. Now you have to go. Yeah, okay. So, when I was a minister, I always carried out government decisions. Your current minister does not enforce your government's decisions. 15. 7. The Government has adopted conclusions to inform it of certain reports. He didn't do it. It also does not respect Parliament's conclusions. This is what we are talking about, not what someone, when John Janša was once a government minister, did or did not do. And if Minister Omerzel were to implement the rulings of the government of Alenka Bratušek and the recommendations of Parliament of 17. 7th, we wouldn't be sitting here today because we'd have answers. That way we don't have any answers. And the purpose of this session is to remind him once again that we need the answers that we've been asking and you've been asking for them for six months.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Pukšič is next in line with the statement. I don't see him in the hall. We continue with Mr. Daniel the Blameer. Get ready, Mr. Lucky Meh. Mr. Guilty, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the Minister and to all present! I didn't want to deal with any longer history myself because it doesn't make sense. I appreciated that when we adopted the guarantee law, the things that touched the TES were somehow over. However, given the re-emergence and the fact that the current government is now the one to decide on it, this must nevertheless be touched. However, I would like to remind all Members that when we adopted the guarantee law, we agreed with this investment, that we have finally blessed this investment, if we are very domestically, and not today to talk about it and to reopen whether the project needs to be completed, it does not have to be completed and so on. I think we were all aware at the time of full responsibility that this is the end of the matter. The problem arose when someone violated an obligation that Parliament had accepted, an obligation that we had accepted in the National Assembly and which was also transmitted to credit institutions, and these are European institutions. I will only point to one other part of history, and here I would like the Minister to clearly define himself, because in this part he is responsible and must say something. His statement at the hearing: "I believe that TES should be built and put in place as soon as possible. Each day of delay costs us millions of euros, and this is actually a story that needs to be put in place and used. However, I certainly appeal that the extent of the investment in TES should not be increased." That's his point of view. Further to the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee on 31 May – I quote the Minister again from the magnetogram: "It was very clear, and during the time of the previous government, the guarantee that was accepted, as far as I was concerned, all those involved at this time both by the government and those who made the investment were clearly and loudly stated that the guarantee was being given in case and provided that the volume of the investment did not increase, and that this figure was then clear, both in Parliament and in the media, fixed to EUR 1.3 billion. What happened after this signature of the guarantee agreement is something that needs to be explored at this point. My view is that it is unacceptable that the scope of the investment has increased." Continue the same meeting in a few days – I quote the minister again. There were some questions and answers: "That is why I thank them and I believe that the responsibility for the situation has been fully clear, and on the basis of official reports, we will also be held accountable. As far as the future of this project is concerned, the contract itself is very clear. The contract itself is the one where we have one key piece of data, and this key information is 1.3 billion. As far as the project is concerned, I am sure that no one in this Slovenia wants us to have a monument for a billion euro in Scotland. And we don't have to have it. For 1.3 billion, this project must be completed." That's what the minister said. And hereafter: "Today I have heard two initiatives on which to take the matter, from both directors – shortening deadlines, the right path, by making sure that only by shortening deadlines we will not be able to achieve the result. And I am sure that the initiative, which was also given today, to renegotiate with Alstom – Alstom must also be aware that 1.3 billion is an extremely serious number for this project. I don't want to go back in time, whether 1.3 billion is real or not. 1.3 is a fact that we have also defined through the guarantee contract and also made commitments. But Alstom will also have to realize that this number must not be exceeded." End of quote of the minister. On 16 July, the Committee on Infrastructure and Space, the Minister's statements, I quote: "One of the key arguments or conditions is project management, which was practically not available in this project." That's the minister's statement. "It has been shown that project management in this project has been in order to find documentation of how and when something has happened, catastrophic, and these are two fundamental, fundamental sins, why we today have the situation that we have." These are the Minister's statements. Today, we note what you have all found in the debates that we do not have reports that the same people are running the project that they led in the past – we are talking about the Director of Coal, who has remained the same throughout this time. Even though the minister says there has been catastrophic leadership and so on, there is no action. And that's the problem that we're now wondering if the minister really knows what he's talking about or is somehow misleading us. If anyone expects us to be Members who, on the basis of the revised documents, will ask the expert and those who revise the documents whether they have made the right decision or have deceived us, I think they are overestimating the abilities of this Parliament and of all of us who are sitting here. There have also been other statements at this meeting which I think are even more important. Statement by the Minister: "It is my duty, the Minister and my team, to be able to verify that it is true, and only then can we propose and give guidance on what we think is right. I will fight for this and therefore, in this segment, one of the proposals of conclusions we need is crucial that we have an independent expert institution to verify that this investment plan that will be made is a holding that will verify all the actual conditions on this project." We have not seen this document, and you are asking us to confirm the increase in investment for this 140 million. And you yourself claim that you first need a document on which to make a decision. I quote you further: "What is crucial is that we have an expert who deals with content. Mathematics clearly does not work, and we need such an expert team to scan the situation on the project itself, so that it will take a careful look at the TES itself. On this basis, I, as the Minister of State and Government, will be able to take appropriate measures." Here you are making your own commitments, and today we are wondering where this document is, on the basis of which we will decide again. You did not present one document. NIP 6 is not confirmed anywhere. No audit was carried out. We haven't seen any documents. And also your statement: "On this basis, I have assessed what is real and what is not real. I agree with you that what the previous leadership has claimed and what the current leadership has claimed is not merciless for me to be able to decide. There will be a review, review, a thorough review of the entire operation of the international institution," and so on. It is said that you have told us Members that you cannot rely on the statement of the previous leadership or the statement of the current leadership, but at the moment and at the meeting of the committee you have referred to this precisely, the opinion of the current leadership, and denied the position of the previous leadership. You're denying yourself. Magnetograms are accessible and public, and you must come to Parliament with a revised document, as was the NIP 5, which is the only one we can make relevant decisions about. Earlier, the talk was that we can do nothing about those who are obviously both the director and the minister know that they have deceived us and so on. From the point of view of tax legislation, from the point of view of the law on unlawfully acquired property, a number of measures are taken to implement and have not been implemented. As an individual, you can treat anyone who is clear that he has more assets than his legal income allows him, but you have not reacted. So until we have the documents, it is necessary to implement the conclusions that your government has given you and also the views that you have stated in the past in this House.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Meh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u56	Thank you very much. First, a few of these by the way. Someone said that block 6 was decided at lunch. Don't underestimate, don't say things that can't hold. And if someone made a decision at lunch, it's certainly not possible to make such an investment at lunchtime, and I assure you it wasn't decided there. Then someone talked about mixing what could be done with this billion 400. I think it was Mrs Dimic talking about paying for everything else she would have done. Once again, let me say that the investment in Block 6 does not come from budgetary resources. The investment in Block 6 is an energy investment and means an alternative investment for the smooth supply of Slovenia with domestic electricity. It is true, however, that Block 6 will pay the country 70 million euros for the cost of the guarantee. 70 million euros will be paid by the Shoštanj Termoelectric power plant for the guarantee. That's right. Also, someone claims that what the Journal says is true. I'm sorry, there was a story when something was written on the fence, if I could make a little joke. It's all over the place. And if there's enough officers, then there's nothing else to do. Then let us have officers who are our information and who mean the truth to us. The question was how much is invested from Block 6 in the Municipality of Šostanj and Velenje. Nothing. In the investment of Block 6 there is not a single euro for any infrastructure, not in the municipality of Velenje or the Municipality of Velenje, not in the Municipality of Šostjanj. I have already said here several times, and I repeat that, while I was mayor of Velenje Municipality, we did not receive a single euro from Termoelectrica Šostanj at the expense of the compensation. Neither is it from the coal mine that no man shall say: but they were given out of the coal mine. I would therefore like to say that the issue is substantively that we should reconcile what Drava power plants pay to municipalities, which is paid to the municipalities by the nuclear power plant, which is paid to the municipalities. That's what we should do, and this is where we should make order. It was also a question of what would have happened if Block 6 had been stopped. In Slovenia we would have major problems with energy supply, very big problems. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a cake in which 33% of electricity is produced at the Chestnut plant, Slovenian energy, where 8% is obtained from other energy sources, 30% from water sources, 21% is a nuclear plant and 8% are other sources. If block 6 had not been built, then Slovenia would have very serious difficulties in supplying electricity. Block 1 and Block 2 are no longer operational anyway. Block 3 has no cleaning appliances. Block 4 and 5 will have to stop working in 2016 or 2017. That's when we stop all the blocks. Until then, it is necessary to build a replacement investment or Slovenia will have too many problems. And I'd like to show you the next cake. Here is the price structure in Block 6, namely: depreciation is 19%, then coal is 31%, and CO2 emission coupons are 23%. Everything else is financing costs, other costs, labour costs, deferral costs, maintenance and so on. So all of this is in these remaining 16.5%. This is kind of a story that we understood in the Valley of Shale. No one's ever asked us if coal would dig in the Shale Valley, never anyone. Coal was dug, started to be dug, and they collapsed, as Mr Bevk also said, even the valley. The valley is gone, the village is gone, there are lakes. No one asked us about it, never and never. The EKK thing is, of course, true. Even then, politics got involved and stopped a project that could certainly change the image of the Valley of Shale. For better or worse, I don't know. Then no one asked us again, so they built block 1, block 2, block 3, block 4, and block 5. And we have produced the necessary electricity for Slovenia. At that time, we especially destroyed the air and the water, and the earth we are quite — since you probably still remember the burnings, remember the white water, and everything that happened there. And when blocks 1, 2 and 3 became useless, old, obsolete, we demanded cleaning appliances. Blocks 4 and 5 have been given cleaning facilities. For SO2, for NOx, and water treatment we requested. We've reached them. The crazy valley is no longer polluted. The blocks were getting closer to the age of life. At the time, local communities, coal mines, and TES decided to continue or had two options — to rebuild blocks 4 and 5 or to build a new block or to stop digging. At that time, the decision was very close to stopping digging up coal, stopping producing electricity, and solving the problem of the Shale Valley, just as we were solving Zasavje — by law. At that time, on the basis of experts and others, we decided to continue the production of coal, to build a new block and to land on electricity production in the Shaleska Valley. Since then, this is around 2000, the activities have also led in this direction to demand an ecological, environmental and economical better or best block, the best combustion plant. We demanded a completely clean environment, and we demanded that the consequences of mining be eliminated. Those were our terms. These conditions were also accepted in TES, coal and HSE. These conditions remain the same for us. And since then, the restructuring of Velenje coal mines has begun. When I was working in the coal mine, there were 5,000 of us in the coal mine. Today, thousands of 300 miners work in the coal mine, along with everyone else, belonging to the coal mine. And there are a thousand 300 employees in the subsidiaries. So, from 5,000 workers, we've reduced to 2,000,600 jobs, if you just say so. And if someone says that the coal mine didn't do what they should do, and if someone says that the coal mine is dealing with tourism today, then I don't know what's wrong with it, because the coal mine isn't dealing with it, but his daughter's company, where the employees of those who then went to this society and the others who spent it, and other subsidiaries are where they work. That is why I think we have also answered questions about whether there is enough coal. Remember the discussions when we talked about whether there was enough coal. We've been working on external expertise whether we have enough coal or not, but I can assure you once again that we have enough for Block 6. When we were talking about block six, we were also talking about block seven because we have an energy location in Scotland. Who else has an energy location? That's right. Where else can you put the wind power plant? Where can you put it? Where else can you do anything? Where can we do room-to-space interventions? So it's an energy location. Block 7 wasn't on coal, but it was studied, it was designed with completely different energies. Because of all of this, today is the basic issue of this. The Magnificent Messenger. Visjak still insists that we have to make 1.3 billion in the investment programme if I round up, that no one will jump again, that there is more, insist, and that this is what we should do with the investment. NIP 6 is not, but this investment programme has been adopted. Today, when we have 99% of the contracts signed and we know what the cost of the investment is – we know for sure because all the contracts are signed. But we don't know anything else that we've talked about today. Still, someone insists that the NIP 5 should be valid. What should the current government, the minister and the HSE leadership do today if the investments are already signed? If it is 99%, it is one percent 13 million. So for a billion 300 million contracts are already signed, and today we are talking about that this investment programme should be implemented. There's no way out. There's no way out. Someone overstepped powers, but these powers were exceeded in the past because from the guarantee contract we have accepted here to this day, they have signed annexes or brought costs so far that these costs are now billions of 400 and 28 or as much as they will then be strictly accurate so that we can speak. It is therefore extremely responsible today to talk about how to get to the right number to lead the investment, how to place the price of coal that they signed, what happened in that investment programme at the time, and what to do with what we did not do, and what they then demanded in the coal mine was to be done. In the coal mine, it has been made clear that coal mines are capable of digging for 2.25 euros per gigajoule, provided that investments are made that the coal miner needs to dig coal for 2.25 euros. And this is the shaft that is now being made new to rationalize coal transport, the air shaft, these are the cave links that need to be closed because they are no longer so long, and they are the costs that are linked to environmental rehabilitation, to what the coal mine has done and needs to be repaired. This is why this story about this investment programme is responsible. Back there are people, there are costs in the back, there are contracts that have been signed in the back, and from this point of view it would be right to talk today primarily about how to get to this investment programme as soon as possible, how to get to the right number quickly. And if anyone says that he built the house in exactly the number that he pawned as an investment - that's what I'd like to see. This investment in Block 6 will also be clearly known after the investment is completed, when the last account is closed and when they say: the investment is completed, Block 6 has a usable permit, no more investment, went into production. And we want it to be as soon as possible. Let me tell you again. Block 6 is not an investment someone could make up. This is an economic investment that replaces blocks 3, 4 and 5, is an investment of 600 megawatts for Slovenia's smooth supply of electricity and is our only energy source, which we have in addition to renewable resources, which is available in a very limited amount. Because of all this, I think it would be wise to forget all that someone thinks they could have done for themselves instead of someone else, to believe that people have done as much as they can, and to support the efforts of the minister and his team, who are trying to get to the bottom of all the costs incurred at Block 6, at the time of the investment in TER 6, but we have somehow hidden them under the carpet, we have not recognized them, or we have forced someone to write that the investment programme will be a billion 300 million, even though it was unrealistic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The representative of the Government also asked for the floor. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Madam President. On my part, a nice greeting to all Members of Parliament and Members, since the Minister does not have a second obligation, has previously been announced. When I listen to this debate, I have the feeling that most agree that the TES 6 project must end as soon as possible, that there is no doubt here. On the other hand, speakers and speakers have repeatedly denied themselves that they would like, populistly, to build, possibly or any word they have already used, stopped, even though in the same sentence or suggest that 99% of the contracts have already been signed, that they are incriminating contracts and that there are direct financial consequences in the back. We know that about a billion and 100 million have already been paid, that 99% of the contracts are signed and that whoever today claims that it would be more efficient to stop the construction is certainly not an expert in Slovenian energy. In particular, I would like to mention that we distinguish between three different moments or three different questions that have been raised in the past in the building clock of Block 6 and are confused today by the answers or facts that are intertwining. One is whether we need or whether we're going to have block six, yes or no. This response has been answered in the past, and then, of course, it has often been populist: let us discuss whether we will have it or not. That's a simple answer: yes or no. At the same time, other debates still face many of these statements that Slovenia uses infrastructure facilities. In particular, it needs infrastructure facilities in the field of renewable energy sources. It needs infrastructure facilities for all indicators when electricity consumption increases, including so-called power plants, which will give what is most important, and this is the reliability of electricity supply. In Slovenia, with Block 6 we will get what Slovenia has or will continue to maintain, and this is one of the highest security of power supply and supply to final consumers and the economy as well. So question Block — yes or no? It's not even a question anymore. What a block, however, is another question where a little political nature and a little professional nature are intertwined. There were 350 megawatts, 400 megawatts, 500 megawatts, 600 megawatts. That's a professional question. Has the profession in the past rightly decided to go to 600-megawat construction? This will also need to be investigated and decided by the competent authorities. But she's made up her mind, and today we can't change this decision back. Would it be better to have a 400-megawat block where we have 15 providers like this? [[Finger-toed clap]] or 600 megawatts, where we have very few bidders and the possibility of corruption risk increases enormously. Does little Slovenia need such a big block? This has already been resolved by the profession in the past. And if this problem has been properly resolved, the competent authorities will have to investigate it again. I'm not here to judge this, and even less, the department's team. The other thing that can arise as a sub-question of this question, which block 6 appears, is how it was guided. If you were guided by example, properly or professionally, as we may all be leading our domestic investments home for our own pocket, I am sure that we would not be sitting here today, and perhaps not many times in the near past. However, it is not my intention to assess whether management was right or wrong. We have the institutions responsible for this again. Here I know that with Mr Visionary, everyone agrees that they will sooner or later explore, but it is necessary to be patient. We cannot expect that within three months, all the competent authorities will suddenly put themselves on top of each other and explore all the sins behind them, especially the 9-year operation and management of the block 6 project. I am sure I have full confidence that when the correct and correct legal bases are given to all competent institutions, they will also play their role for which they are called, from the NPU, tax authorities, the Police, the Court of Auditors, the Ministry of Justice and so on. Can the ministry, the department's team, believe the data we get on the table? Was it right that we didn't believe the NIP 6 that the thermal power plant management sent to the government on the last day of the government's deadline? We cannot believe the number if this number is higher than the NIP 5, which was the basis of the law and the guarantee agreement. It is normal that we have questioned the number and the composition of the so-called amended investment programme itself. Maybe in the past it was too many times on the first ball and they believed those numbers, but they were higher, and they were lower. We have deepened – if it is already higher and it is an unconfirmed programme, nor has the Supervisory Board of the Termoelectrica Šostanj confirmed it, we expect it to be confirmed by the Administration of the Holding of the Slovenian Power Plant, we expect it to be confirmed by the Control Board of Holding of the Slovenian Power Plant, and we expect it to be endorsed and confirmed by the Administration of Velenje Coal Mines, which is also directly connected as an input energy for block 6. The third question is only the operation of the TES6 block. Here, too, today comes this question and answers, and then they mix with comments about the investment, how it was led. The simple truth is that it has no operation and will never have anything to do with the investment itself. The investment will be as it will be. But the way it will be, the way it will be. And now it's always being evaluated. As we approach the moment of operation, we always need to take the latest data. And if we look at the price of electricity, which is changing daily, weekly, hourly, then we can also argue about what the price of electricity will be taken in order to calculate, or better put, what kind of performance assessment we will charge, because tomorrow we will be able to have a second performance assessment. As far as I know, the contract of 2.25 euros per gigajoule is still valid as an input energy of coal for Block 6. When it comes to digestion, it's about another cost and other questionable data, not about it. In short, we also do not know when the operation will be assessed, how other power plants within the Holding Group of the Slovenian Power Plants will work, what will be the power, what will be the consumption, what will be the security situation of Slovenia, what will be the primary regulation, the secondary regulation of the frequency, what CO2 prices will be the releases. All these are factors that, if we want to respond to them competently, are all assessments, and all these assessments normally cannot affect an investment that will be completed long ago. If, or when – we do not know – these are also estimates – in the first months, for weeks block 6 will be unprofitable or will produce a lower price at which it is currently available on the market, this does not mean that Block 6 is not a stand-alone market operator to sell and we have a so-called mix within the Slovenian Power Plant Holding. This was a basic mission, why Holding the Slovenian Power Plant was established at the time. After all, the basic mission of holding is also the reliability that we do not have a breakdown of the power system of Slovenia. I don't know, Slovenia is one of the few countries in the European Union that has had a good time with all these shocks in the past, and all the entities responsible for ensuring that the security of power at the highest level has been adequately and adequately addressed. The comparison itself when we let ourselves down, why a bigger number came and why we still don’t have a confirmed NIP 6 — simply because we have seen that from NIP 1 to NIP 5 very skillfully changed the items, how they got to the final numbers, so it’s very difficult to compare if you don’t have the same items that your item has increased or decreased. This sequence was always covered from the enca forward, and when we went to watch what was behind these items, we found quite a bit of unconsistency, irregularity and difference, and this also needs to be clarified. After all, the items have also been skillfully renamed in the past and were exactly the same item. So when it was misleading in the past, it was also misleading, and that was not the case. But if I go to the numbers to be specific, because this question has also been raised. For example, on one item, which has always appeared under the same name and on the same line of this table — construction works. Suddenly, from NIP 5 to NIP 6 increased by 11.4 million euros. Inside this, of course again under various items, preparatory works, which are the basis for construction works, 440 thousand, main propulsion facilities 7.5 million, other objects, very general 3.5 million, and the rest, administrative building and so on. It's all 11.4, just like I mentioned. Then we've got a set of gears. Even though the contracts were signed, she was irritated. That's the power to figure it out. Why was the NIP 5 1.3, and why does it now show that when we have a confirmed NIP 6, it should be higher as it gets higher – I don't know if it's going to be 1,428, 1,424 or even 1.3. These items need to get to the bottom once and for all, and then we'll have the right numbers. But we can blindly believe the first NIP to fly in from the thermal power plant without being confirmed by the city authorities. This is it, this is NIP 6, and we can go straight to NIP 7. That's not what we wanted. In short, the equipment has risen by 66.8 million from NIP 5 to NIP 6. According to these items, which we have already been able to extract: the main technological equipment of 57 million, the main technological equipment of an additional 33 million. She's moved on. What is under this heading must be investigated. Then the main technology equipment is escalation, installation of 23 million, reservation contract, gas desulphurisation 2.1 million. It's got a kick out of it. It's interesting. Refrigeration systems 339 thousand, water preparation 1.5 million, transport of coal 208 thousand euros, processing of products, technological connections again almost 3 million, connection to the electricity system – interesting. It's very important that we connect the block, not just build it. It does not appear in all NIPs as a cost. It even went down here, and we haven't connected it yet, but this item went down by 200 000 euros. Then we have the rest of the item where all the other costs are being charged. This item has increased by 5.4 million. Investor costs, $4.4 million insurance. In short, all of us come to these numbers when they come, but they are not yet confirmed — 126 million. It's hard to be a judge when you come into a project where you don't know all the data and start researching it back. I hope so, and that is why I have taken my stand, and that is why I am going to advocate that this government will be the first government to give all the necessary legal basis and that it will advocate that we will engage – we know that they have already engaged, but we will engage everything and that we will have a so-called coordinated forensic approach, a forensic investigation that will give a lot of answers in the future. Unfortunately, we don't have it today. But there can be political debate here. The profession has made up its mind in the past. This will also have to be checked once whether it has made the right decision or not, whether in the past there have ever been points of withdrawal when they could withdraw from this project if they could, if they could, do what they could do. This is a matter of law enforcement, which will have to be thoroughly investigated, and it is also appropriate to take over the sequences. The fact is, in the energy sector in Slovenia, the view that today – perhaps ironically – we can no longer stop the bloc. I would really like to see someone who would sign under this monument in Slovenia. Perhaps in the past, it could have been said in a modern way that there were moments of stopping, points of withdrawal, and today this point is gone. The energy sector in Slovenia is very unified and says that it should be built as soon as possible and that the investment should be completed. What's going to happen to the operation? I said this was a completely different moment. We have at least one year of events in between, 13, 14 months. There's a lot that could happen. What happens then, we'll see. It's a matter of other organs and stakeholders. Everything else that is today, and within the framework of its powers, the Ministry will continue the activities it has been entrusted with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u59	Thank you very much. On behalf of the proposer, Mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u60	First of all, Mr Meh, who said that Visjak insists on respecting the price cap up to EUR 1.3 billion. The visor insists nothing. That's the law of guarantee. We in this House have made a guarantee, under these conditions, to rent EUR 440 million in loans to the European Investment Bank. The law with which we have adopted this has committed everyone to respect the price ceiling of EUR 1.3 billion, the end and the peak, and nothing Visjak insists on. That's the law. And this is the NIP 5, which is the only document that has been adopted so far and which you seem to have a lot of doubts about, with only some unsigned or unaccepted papers. Worse. When the Slovenian Power Plant Holding Supervisory Board was apparently also forced by this NIP 6, which was supposed to raise the investment, part of the Supervisory Board resigned. Part of the Supervisory Board has resigned, and in my opinion, he has resigned precisely because of certain controversial new values in the NIP or because of the insistence of some that the numbers must be different, which will justify higher value. Not that there is only one Vizjak who insists on something, but this Parliament or Members have accepted this limit – you have accepted, Mr Meh. This is your law to which these terms were added. I don't think Vizjak insists on anything here, but it's the law. And one more thing. You say that 99% of contracts are signed, and it is also probably true that what the media say is not fixed-price contracts, that these prices are unfixed in advance and that they can also be properly brought into these frameworks. That's what we believe. It is said that it is not true that we would already have signed contracts for higher prices – yes, of course, if you try to do so, you will take up and make it possible. But we don't want to. I don't know if it's really so strange that we're insisting that the law that was passed in this National Assembly is a guarantee law for hiring this loan. And here again it was said by Mr Meh that someone had violated powers in the past and so on. And I, my respects, have been asking for the fourth or fifth time – because now the Secretary of State has spoken, I hope that he will answer me because he is more eloquent than the Minister. And I'm asking you for an answer. I ask you for a simple answer: have you implemented the recommendation of the National Assembly, which instructed the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space and the Ministry of Finance to verify, in cooperation with the State Defence Office, the legality of the management of the holding of the Slovenian power plant and the Termoelectric power plant of Šostanj and, in the event of irregularities identified, to transmit these findings to the law enforcement authorities? These recommendations were adopted in this Parliament last July. Please answer that question once. Have you checked the legality of anything? Have you found any irregularity or illegality in the conduct of administrations such as fraud? Deception by the administrations of the Chestnut power plant in terms of value, in terms of this and that, is a serious matter. And I ask you whether you have formally established any misleading of the administrations of the Termoelectrica Šostjanj and Holdinga Slovenian Power Plant to the Ministry, to the government, to Parliament, because we have dealt with this several times and how you have acted. This report, as we have made this recommendation to the Ministry last July, we have never received this recommendation. Since we didn't get this report, today I'm asking if this has happened. I already have a lot of rumors here that some have been deceiving that some have been inflating this investment – probably administrations, at least those who have led the investment – and no one has found out by now whether or not anyone has been deceiving anyone has formally found out. I do not think that this from all correspondents is to be found out, I do not know: the Director of the Administration or the Director of the Termoelectric power plant of Šostanj was deceiving and citing the data. Now it has clearly turned out that these data are not accurate, and since he has done so, he has experienced this and this sanction. Even worse, the Director of Coal Velenje, Mr Milan Medved, signed a long-term coal supply contract at the base price of 2.25 euros for gigajoule. Today, everyone here, as I see you, is doubting this number, and this gentleman is still sitting in this chair and nothing has happened to him. And you're saying that everyone has been deceiving that the investment has been 1.4 billion all along, that everyone has been deceiving and artificially reducing it to some other values, that politics has fueled it, and in the end no one answers. If so, bring those responsible before the hand of justice! You did not do so, even though the Government has committed you to it and that Parliament has committed you to it or that Parliament has recommended this to you for the purpose of dividing power. That's the theme. We Members are probably not going to assess whether an item in the investment programme is real or not. With all due respect, I, too, am a master of electrical engineering, but I have studied one way or another, and I am not trained to assess whether a number is real or not in the updated investment programme. However, if an investment programme is adopted and reviewed, and I do not have expertise to prove otherwise, then I have to believe. But if I have expert expertise, or if I have reasonable doubts, I have to question. Therefore, it is irrelevant to speak here, which number the NIP is the right number. We have a NIP that's valid. If you're saying that this current NIP isn't real, we should prepare another. And you were tied up in the government last July. Last July, a government decision was adopted that NIP 6 should be prepared. The draft is ready, NIP 6 is not accepted and is therefore, as you would say, non-paper. I ask you again: what is the real value of this investment? We do not want to deal here now with these political decisions in the past, although there is no problem on this subject as you wish. We need to complete this investment rationally, legally, and if someone has done something wrong, they must be responsible. That's all. It is the mission and the hope of the proposers that today will happen, nothing else. And we have problems because you have done nothing that you were charged with at the time, it is said that you would optimize this investment to determine how high this investment is and not least to initiate proceedings against those who have cheated or who have done unlawfully in the administrations of HSE and TES. If this is too much, you're answering us here about all the other things that are not under discussion and no one has asked you at all. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Meh wanted a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u62	They may have asked no more, Mr. Visjak, but they talked about it. And then you don't talk about topics you don't want to talk about. NIP 5 was, of course, revised and valid for a billion EUR 300 million, but is it therefore realistic? Director Kosorok, Director Dermol and Minister who presented this told us at the committee meeting that the NIP 5 was not real, that it was not valid, that it was wrong, and you were listening to Koshorok that at the time the minister was also seduced. I claim that we were even more misled in Parliament when we talked about a billion 302 million, that no one will talk about it again. Of course, there is a difference of responsibility, and Minister Omerzel has very well demonstrated whose responsibility it is to take decisions in Holding Slovenian Power Plants, in TES and in Premogovnik Velenje today. Of course, it was very different back then, Mr. Visjak, when you were Minister and Chairman of the Supervisory Board. That's when you made that decision that was based on the profession, on everything that was. You were the one who did it back then. So it seems to me that when we talk about this deception, it's really unhygienic that today you're wondering what's going on here, and you yourself have caused this story a long time before the law of Meh or any law here has been told. Let me also say this again: of course we will not complete this investment in the National Assembly. We're not gonna finish it, we're just gonna put this whole thing off. But we can provide some quiet space so that the government can do everything else. And there's something else about the director of Velenje Coal. I assure you that the Director of Coal is a good director, but he will have to be asked under what conditions he signed 2.25, what he did then and why 2,45, 2.47 a single net price for a gigawatt hour. But since you're laughing over there on that side, I'm going to show you a table showing the operation of Thermal Power Plant Shoštany, Block 6. These are the profits that block 6 would have under the assumption that the investment was also started. This green is millions through this time of operation. And I'll show you another table. See, for example, table in TES – if the conversion in 2013 was 21,96 [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u63	Mr. Meh, your replica is leaking. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u64	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u65	The replica's expired. You had three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u66	Did it run out? Okay. Thank you very much. However, if in 2013 it was 21,96, the price of electricity processing in TES was reduced by 45 in 2014.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The text was wanted by the Magi's proponent. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u68	Dear Mr. Meh! As Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Power Plant until 2006 or by spring 2007, I have not taken any decisions on this investment, as this investment was not led by the Holding of the Slovenian Power Plant but by the Termoelectric Power Plant Šostanj. All operational decisions on this investment were taken by the authorities of the Šostanj Termoelectrica. However, several times – by the way, your late Minister of Finance, Mr. Franci Križanič, was also in the supervisory council to learn about the course of this investment. That's a big difference. Operationally, this investment has not been decided by the HSE Supervisory Board, and you know that. And I don't want to fool myself into making any decisions here in this role. The only decision I made as a minister regarding this investment was the issue of an energy permit. Ladies and gentlemen from the Ministry of Infrastructure well know what an energy permit is, that this is an administrative decision which the Minister must issue, if the application is complete and all the conditions are met. The energy permit is not a decision on the economy of this investment, but on whether a particular energy facility is energy to be optimally integrated into the electricity system of the country. And because I doubted it myself because of such a large block, I asked the Energy Agency of Maribor to give me an opinion, because it was then about whether it would be 500 or 600 megawatts, and only after obtaining a positive opinion from the Energy Agency did I issue an energy permit. Once again, the energy permit is not a decision for this investment. The energy permit is only one in a series of permits, such as a building permit, which allows those who decide on this investment to decide on this investment when other aspects, including economic aspects, must be considered. Mr. Meh knows this well, and on purpose, he's pushing me all over again and again. Once again, Mr Meh, the government of Janez Janša adopted in 2006 a resolution of national projects where it classified Block 6 as a promising energy project. This is because the indicators at the time — you believe it today and I am here in a slightly different way — because at the time the data showed that it was indeed an optimal project. No one's fooling us with this. That was the situation back then. When the situation changed, I made a responsible point. There's no way to gather enough evidence about this. If you want them, I'll give them to you. Therefore, please do not encourage me to take any operational decisions in this regard, but especially in the work where the biggest problem today appears. This is what we are talking about in terms of the extent of this investment. The extent of this investment, the new investment programmes, the value of this investment is not discussed by any minister, nor is the current one, nor has any previous one had any operational decisions. That's why we said find those responsible and bring them to justice, but unfortunately that didn't happen, and obviously it won't.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Reploco wanted Mr. Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u70	That's the point. The current minister is guilty, and the Minister in 2004, 2005 and 2006 and the President of the Supervisory Board is not guilty because he did not make any decisions. But he was the chairman of the Supervisory Board. That's the perversion, Mr. Visac, and that doesn't seem right to me. However, the scope of the investment is exactly as it was in 2006 – this is said to be a block 6 building of 600 megawatts in which the technology and production of electricity and also coal consumption is known.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Visjak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u72	Dear Mr. Meh! But your perversion is that you don't listen to what the proponents want and ask the government or the minister. Nothing but respect for the conclusions they've made to this minister. The Government's conclusions instructed this minister to prepare an international expert audit of this project. Parliament has also recommended, and the Government has also instructed this minister to verify the legality of the management of HSE and TES and has not done so. That's what we're reading to him, Mr. Meh. Nothing else. And you're moving around. That's completely different. I have always respected the conclusions of both Parliament and Government as Minister. Clearly, the standards of your ministers are now somewhat different.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Meh, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u74	Mr. Vizjak, how can someone respect the decision that we have taken here on the guarantee be misled by a billion 302 million 500 000 to carry out this project if it is not possible? How can he do that? Explain this because you have all the answers, so I think it's a question – tell me exactly how. At this point, the director of HSE, personally or all of us, has told you that this investment programme of a billion 302 million is not real, is not acceptable, and that the contracts are already signed in a billion 300. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u76	Mr. Meh, read the conclusions of the government. You obviously don't know them. Government Decisions of 15. They don't order the Minister to make an investment last year. These decisions require the Minister to draw up, once again, an amended investment programme, whatever it may be, for him to perform an international audit of this and impose upon him to bring those responsible before the time of his rights. What are you two up to? That's what they're telling him! And which one did he do?Oh, my God! Nothing!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Now, Mr. Minister, he wanted to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u78	Madam President, thank you for your word. When I listen to the opposition's questions, I feel like we're not sitting in the same Parliament as they are in one parallel world. On the infrastructure committee, we presented in detail the current state of the investment itself and everything around how this investment affects the operation of the company Termoelectrica Šostanj, on holding. We've got the whole thing under control. The question raised here is today — I am grateful to the Members that they have advised me not to deal with history anymore. With this history we have dealt with and looked at who has ever made any key decisions, and I have to deal with the facts. I've heard from the opposition that I'm asking them today to confirm my number 1.4. I was just reporting on 1.4 what the current situation is and what the reality we're facing today is. It's not that we're looking for confirmation today. When we talk about not respecting the conclusions of this government, let us address professional issues with expertise and content. All of this now bears one very serious professional issue on the political floor, which I do not think is right. What is important is that this ministry, the energy sector, deals with content, deals with all that we need to realize. And if you look at what we presented on the infrastructure committee, in substance, everything this ministry could have done at this stage did. There's one thing we need to be aware of. This story — I will no longer repeat the numbers of history — we know when it began, and this period we are dealing with is simply some time frame where we do not want to get ahead of events or want to make some premature decisions. It is simply necessary to take a responsible approach, and what we want, once and for all, and I hope that with our report this was clear, is that all the right information is once in public, that we will once know what numbers we are dealing with, and what we will believe, what we will have the key basis for doing so. Historically, when I made a substantive reference to the NIP 5 and everything that was going on around this investment – it is crucial that there were some shortcomings inside that should not have been allowed in serious investment planning. This is a key fact, and I do not want my portfolio, my ministry and this government to repeat these mistakes again. As far as Mr Krivec is concerned, he mentioned my statement of 1.3 billion euros. We need to be very clear here. On the day of the hearing – the data and facts that I had on the table at the time as a minister who started his journey as a minister were the facts that I had before me. And my statements that this must remain at 1.3 billion were based on the facts that I had before me at the time. Regrettably, I must stress that I am not the one who advocates that this investment is higher, and it seems unfair to me that it is all the time that it is stressed that we who support the increase in this investment, that we are the ones responsible for increasing this investment. It needs to be made clear: these are facts from the past, but what I am taking in some way like, I will even allow myself to say, honour, and that we have hoped to do, but it is that we present the right information, that we go once with the truth to the public and say what is true, not that we try to represent some of the kind of data, what has happened in the past, so that this investment will go on. What we report today is not what we would like or advocate. These are the facts we're dealing with.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u79	Thank you very much. We can now proceed with the debate of the other Members. Mag. Ivan Vogrin, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Two months ago, I was in TEC and the Velenje Coal. Why? I didn’t know that today this session would be — because I was just curious about how things were actually going to be, for a while after the adoption of our guarantee law. Over what I saw, of course, I was surprised. It is two high-tech, capable companies, and I recommend that all those who have not yet been there go and see what Slovenian companies are capable of doing. This is technical, technological knowledge, and we should talk today about how we will export this knowledge abroad, because Slovenia is too small to sell it at home, and of course we should deal with what we will do to have something to live on or live off credits and accusations – probably not for long. Those who wonder why the 116 million boost is actually an irrelevant issue. Where do we get them from? We'll raise our taxes and we'll pay our debts. We're going to make a success abroad. This is a several-year practice, and why don't we continue it. It's just a matter of how long. The question is who is responsible for the matter. You know, the last time I was on the board, I was about to try to explain the hierarchy of responsibility from my perspective. Now, of course, it is trying to say that it is all the wrong administrations, but these administrations are appointed by the Supervisory Board, the Supervisory Board is appointed by the Government and the Government is appointed by Parliament. So, who's most responsible? The answer is in the palm of your hand. The answers are here. But why would we be dealing with the economy? We no longer have the Minister of Economy. We solved the previous one because, of course, he was an economist. If you came out of politics or if you were doing business for the country, of course you wouldn't, but because a company that is a 95 % exporter has 200, 300 employees, you have to get rid of it. It's a real state. Of course, even in Slovenia it is not good to speak on the basis of your own mind. Coco Chanel, who I think died in 1971 and created a huge empire in the perfume field, said that it was the greatest courage to think and speak on the basis of her own mind. That is why, according to the old practice of Mr. Peter King, he happens to have the name King, and the King has been released from one of the supervisory worlds because he is an expert. We also solved Dr. Peter Kralj, also from another supervisory council, because he is an expert, and we say that we have a nonpolitical workforce. And it is interesting that every government, every minister, every next secretary of state comes and explains how the predecessor did not do well and explains some stories that they did not do well. You know, that's not gonna hold. When we say so, one finger is turned against us, and here we should solve problems. This, of course, is a systemic problem. See what was said in Finance yesterday: "In public procurement it is not a matter of public sector chance and incompetence, as I originally thought, but of an extremely specific system of legalized theft of taxpayer money, Dr. Marko Noč told us in an interview." Night means darkness. We have been in the dark for a long time, and it will be a long time if Parliament does not start adopting different legislation, substantially different legislation, simplifying legislation and so on. So things are very simple. Real problems are hard to deal with, but it's easy for everyone to talk to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mag. Leila Hercegovac, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u82	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, guests, colleagues and colleagues! Since TES 6 causes headache, causes insomnia, causes stress and other diseases, we doctors cannot escape from TES 6. Yes, TES 6 is a really difficult and irrational and untransparently driven investment, many years old. This story hasn't been a professional thing for years. The Treaties are mostly signed. Now what? Believe me, at the local level, both the right and the left are very cooperative. And then what's left for me? It remains for me to accept TES as one axiom in mathematics, that the right answer is not to ask too much and to take it as it is. Forgive me, but I would still like an answer why we chose a 600-megawatt type unit if Alstom only had two typical units available, 345 and 800. Why? This unit doesn't fit anywhere after coal consumption, and the project for this has become much more expensive. Now we must all ask ourselves what is the matter with control in the Republic of Slovenia. And second question: what to do in the future to make Slovenian energy policy more rational and efficient? They say it's the resistance that gives rise to positiveness. Those who are for TER 6 are rebellious, those who are not for TER 6. Time will show common results.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Mirko Brulc has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u84	Nice greetings to all present! Mr. Minister, you need to know that this is the first round of interpolation today. It's all your fault, and we'll hear it all again on Wednesday, of course. But it's okay. Magnography reads and so on, and time goes by, and that's important to some. Look, food, drinking water and energy are strategic things that each country protects the most. Unfortunately, we don't have oil, we don't have any gas, but we have coal. If we think of using too little solar energy, too little wind energy, and so on, we're left with hydropower, which is very volatile during the drought. We know what it was like last year. If we didn't have an atomic power plant and so on, it would be bad, and then if we didn't have a thermal power plant, it would also be wrong. We're talking about this thermal power plant today. I will not determine how many billions, how many millions, who is to blame, who is not to blame. We have law enforcement, and as far as I know, it's already running. They also did housework and otherwise carried boxes of paperwork, but I don't think it's easy to figure out who did anything and who did anything wrong. But I have confidence in our commission of inquiry – not ours, not ours, the National Assembly at all, but investigators, criminals, justice and the like. They'll find out how and what. Of course, there's a whole bunch of lobbying at the same time. Probably a lot of people think it would be best if this investment wasn't there and that when the electricity is too low, we're just going to buy it abroad. Today, electricity traders serve so fantasticly at the expense of all of us that this is something incredible, and if we were to be dependent on imports, their pockets would only be filled even more. So, we know that we need TES to clean things up, and this is the team with the minister at the head starting to do very intensely. That's why she might have stepped on someone's tail, even in history, and the reaction is just the way it is, that's normal. If the snake bites you, then you defend yourself as much as you can. I'm glad that every time we're dealing with some things, I hear that this is your member, and that's your member. So the Social Democrats don't even know how many members we have. All of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a Please let me take a look at where these people are rolling, which ministries and so on, and who's to blame. We have a very clear conscience. I think that in some respects this debate has been useful because the facts were coming on the plan, and it will probably be two and a half hours from now, and we will not hear anything new. I think that this investment should go all the way, find out who was doing any kind of fraud, exploiting his position and driving it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u86	Your Honor! History of the unfortunate water and transport investment TES 6 cannot be reversed. It is necessary to stand up today, and from this today I would point out the two segments that I think are most important to this moment. The first is a segment that should go back into history, that is to say back, is to find the responsibility of those who did not make this investment as they should. And secondly, I am concerned about the future of how we will manage all the risks and all the unknowns that occur in this regard, even after this investment has been completed. And if I go back to the first one, this investment was driven by untransparent, completely individual companies, HSE, TES and, finally, the Velenje lignite mine. We know that there have been many contracts and parts awarded without any invitation to tender. Less than 100 million were construction works. All the works were delivered through direct contracts. No engineering work was carried out in accordance with the invitation to tender. And then a really good and useful information, a statement by the presidents of today's HSE administrations and the Director of TES that in the past there have been a lot of hidden facts, a lot of silent facts, and these are key facts that have influenced the decisions of the profession and also the policy. I agree that today's Minister is not guilty, but it is the tasks that the Government has entrusted to the Minister to take this investment into account today. And as a result, we challenge the minister that he has done nothing in this segment since last July, so it is said that the responsibility of those who have misguided this investment has been sought. These tasks, Minister, have not been completed. And second of all, I'm very worried about the future. I am concerned that there are no measures to manage all the risks that this investment poses today that, I can say, we are just before the end of the investment. Moreover, even the price of basic raw material, the price of coal, which has been clearly signed and is known to be 2.25 euros for gigajoule, is questioned. And today, this basic information, on which the whole investment and the whole calculation should restate, is once again questioned. Then I ask myself here: for what purpose? In order to re-create the basis and some manipulation, that the investment is again raised by some 150, 200 million euros, or to cover up in the past any irregularities in the decision-making of these companies? I am very seriously concerned because today I claim that this investment with risk is still not managed today. Who can guarantee that the company's investment will survive in the future or will go bankrupt, HSE, thermal power plants, Velenje lignite mine? Who's guaranteeing that? No one guarantees it, and everyone is highly likely that this investment will bring them down. These are numbers. That's not my personal opinion. These figures were presented both in liquidity and in the future by the Director of HSE on the home working body, the Committee on Infrastructure and Space. And these are the key issues that need to be addressed today. The Minister, including those tasks for which your government has instructed its minister to carry out and prepare – if this time has not been long enough, I understand, and it is necessary to say: yes, we need, I don't know, three more months to carry out or perform these tasks that the Government has given us. But to ignore and disregard what the Government is preparing for us – I don't think it is the Minister's attitude towards his government. If there are problems, time problems, such problems, others, these problems need to be said, these conclusions are being amended and extended for a time when these tasks can be accomplished. But these tasks will have to be done in one way or another, no matter which government, under which minister and so on. So I propose that the Minister really assess these facts, whether he needs extra time or when he expects to perform these tasks himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ludmila Novak, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u88	Your Honor, thank you for your word. When we travel to a country that we do not think is well arranged, they recommend that when we hire a taxi at the airport, we first agree on what price we will take, and when we check it with three taxi drivers, prices can be very different. Usually we take the one who's the cheapest, or they let us in, of course, if it goes out of our pocket. If it's foreign, maybe we don't act so carefully. If we do this in small things, how much more should we do in large ones? And such a big decision as the decision for this thermoelectric TEZ 6 should certainly be carefully thought out, and also carefully designed a programme, an investment programme and so on. And because obviously we no longer trust ourselves in Slovenia – we are also talking about international audit in the recommendations of the Government with the help of international experts – I think it is the least we can do to compare our projects with the prices of projects in foreign countries. And I think that was done, too. And if a similar project costs 700 or 800 or 600 million in another country, I don't know why it costs us 400 million. This is happening to us on the roads, in the tunnels, we have the same picture when buying medical supplies, where prices are three times more expensive for us than abroad. I think the original sin of this project is at the very beginning when the project was confirmed when this investment programme was not carefully designed, because when contracts are signed, they must be held. I think that so far there has been too much of this indulgence when new and new unforeseen costs have just been identified. I think that only when it comes to force majeure can there be derogations, but I wouldn't say that we're up 10% wrong and 20% wrong, but that we're up 100% wrong - but here I think something's wrong. I'm not gonna tell you whether the decision was right or wrong. I'll leave this to the experts. They were different lobbyists, and especially powerful lobbyists must have come from the Valley of Shale. I even had to defend myself before the municipal committees of New Slovenia, because we decided that Members of New Slovenia would not support this guarantee. Not because we think the project is wrong, but because we believe that there was so much awkwardness in this project that we simply cannot support it. And why? The municipal boards wanted to give us up the entire committee. Why? Because all the parties have put pressure on them, why don't we support it, how important, urgent and so on. So all the customers here were united, not just one, the other, or the third. The pressure was fully exerted. And what task do we have? Surely both the opposition and the coalition must all be required to act responsibly, fairly, to make an audit, to call those responsible to account and to bear some consequences. A functioning and successful country can only be those where honesty, responsibility and economy prevail, from above down and from below. Only with these criteria can we be successful in Slovenia. And Mr. Minister, when the parties share resources, the infrastructure is very desirable. Well, now you have to. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All present in this hall! The project, the investment of TEŠ 6, the thermal power plant in Šoštanje in the Shaleška Valley, is unfortunately a drastic example of how investments should not be conducted, and a drastic example of what can happen in a country where corruption has grown beyond all circumstances. I get to know energy a little bit because I was the director of the department where the energy facility was one of the largest in Slovenia, as part of the factory. And when we discussed this project on the Committee on Budgetary Control in 2012, I went to replace this project and I only stuck to the chemical water preparation project, which I led once in a smaller form, but these are typical projects. In everyone where clean water is needed, this is about the same, only the gabarits are larger. And there was a contract for 5 million 200. At the time, I don't know how many 10 million annexes there were, so it's gone up 100%, and that's the whole investment. For 700 million it has grown, some money has leaked since the project was signed. Ladies and gentlemen, why did this happen? There's a perfect parallel to what happened in our banks. Environment — we have come so far as to have one click for 20 years and I do not know how much basis they make for everything and lead from behind. Velenjska, the Valley of jester is an ideal example. Red Velenje – they always had all the power with satellites, which are now some in Positive Slovenia and so on. Same as the banks. There was practically 100% the influence of this former power, these moguls, this oligarchy that sank Slovenia, and there too. And, of course, it was defending the crosswords. We got the wrong information in Parliament. As an engineer, I am aware that such an object for Slovenian energy and for the Slovenian economy is necessary. And if you put it on a table transparently – from the beginning I thought it was normal, and I know we need it – but it is people's decision-making, politics where it had a decisive influence, criminal, and it has become a crime project. And the same people, the same political forces everywhere. That's what we have to tell our people. The same policies, the same heirs who executed this country everywhere, in banks and in Velenj. It's the same one they took advantage of. Someone will say yes, because sometimes they've borrowed another candidate somewhere. I think one of them went to a human party for the last election, the director. This was all organised, and I can't say anything but to take action as soon as possible, not as Masha Kociper said before – a forensic audit. I'm for it, but you don't have to, because you know. They should ask them to shake them out of their pants, who were involved in the spoils. Kociprova said earlier that they needed time to see where we were. We can see that the whole government doesn't know where he is. The whole government doesn't know where he is. The coalition has not changed and the same parties are writing a new coalition contract. Have you seen anywhere in the world that it's the same coalition, and after eight months, it's written a new coalition contract? It's totally childish, so people are convinced and "funged". This policy, grand and banking, continues in this government of yours. You don't want transparency! Here will be another billion — the minister has not explained where he received the previous billions, to whom he sold the bonds, and now he is walking across America with new billions! Ladies and gentlemen, this is not how it works. People need to take you away, but right now people seem to be happy with it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u91	Mr Jerovšek, return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u92	People don't protest, they're happy with it. You have such strong media that you are advertised that you are the right one. When they take it from one pocket and carry it in their pockets [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u93	To the agenda, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u94	Yes, agenda item: this crime must be ended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Branko Ficko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u96	Thank you. Today's request for this extraordinary meeting would be described as hiding from the responsibility for past mistakes that occurred during the time of the government of Janez Janša. It is similar to the case of a bank hole, the destruction of the economy by managers' buyouts and so on. There is also the hiding of politicians, those who started the TES, and then they would stop it and, above all, take responsibility for the current government. You're here to propose to the master of deception. Any investment is and should always be adjusted properly at the beginning. If they were real masters at the time, they would sign contracts that would be fixed or on the key to not being able to be emulated. Already in the basic contract, Alstom was given a great advantage at the expense of this, to which individual actors, including by the legal profession, were warned. The Treaty was and is still explicitly in favour of Alstom, who used this situation to his advantage, probably not only for his own benefit. So it is undeniable that the project was created during that period. The energy permit was then issued by Minister Vizjak, and the actual financial consequences were then initialled by Zagožan. Regarding prices – the price was never 600 million. That was the price of hardware back then. It increased to 830 million at the time, during the time of the government of Janez Janša, when the famous argument between Eles and the economic minister of Vision was about the sharing of interests between HSE and Gen Energy. The contract was in the drawer for a long time, according to the information. Prices increased according to the Alstom contract, and the profession also assesses that the contract was concluded at the historic summit of equipment prices. The second increase occurred during the period when Mrs Radic tried to negotiate price reductions. Of course, she didn't have a negotiating position due to her legal form with Alstom. The difference, I think, is due to political interference, regardless of what option it is, it's worth about 350 million. Of course, the financial consequences were evident in the days of the Pahor government, and Finance Minister Križanič was concerned about not thinking in any other direction. The proponents who started this financial stand and caused financial consequences continued to do so, it is clear that you have no arguments and no right to place responsibility on the current government, not on the current Minister of Infrastructure. Of course, the story has to be investigated from HSE down the octopus with a forensic investigation. Complete the investment rationally and find reserves within the entire energy potential in the period until the start of operation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Dr. Joseph Kunic has the floor. Mr. Richard Braniselj is behind him.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today’s extraordinary meeting of our congregation may take three hours or three days, but there is no other option for TES 6 than to complete it. We're kind of like that - it reminds me of the plane when it takes off on the runway. When it's past a point, it has to take off, otherwise it's "crash." And somehow we've come so far with this investment. Of course, it's not a matter of profession. The treaties are signed, and even if we stop the project now, we will pay and cannot avoid payments. I advocate a thorough forensic investigation. It was heard that it would be good for foreigners to do this, but I have concerns about both those domestics who carry out forensic investigations and foreigners. Of course, foreigners are likely to be experts in this area, and it is unlikely that they would not be associated with Alstom, who is such a great multinational. Therefore, it is necessary to be very careful when doing a forensic investigation. In my view, it is far better for us to work together both outside and outside, so that we can control each other in some way. So, I'm kind of for a combined selection of those who are doing a forensic investigation. If we look back and hear one side and the other side, one expert, another minister and another former minister and so on, it's hard to create an objective picture. But something's right. The people who worked on this investment followed the dog bark principle, the caravan goes on. The ministries could speak their own language, the others, the media would say a lot of things, but it was nothing to them. Today we read the news that a former MEP has been accused in the European Parliament after three years. It took them three years to charge him! [[advertising from the hall]] Let's leave Austria, I'm talking about Slovenia. We live here. Austrians won't judge [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] The Austrians will not judge those who worked in TES, but will be court-martialed by Slovenian courts, so they did not have much to fear. Before there is a judgment, a complaint, a return from a higher court – then I understand those economists who see, on the one hand, the possibility of a foreigner or a direct profit and, on the other hand, the functioning of justice, which is so slow. I think no forensic investigation and nothing will be successful if this segment of criminal policy is not regulated in such a way that it is effective. I am aware that this is an independent branch of power, but they need to be warned about this. Without that, I don't think there's gonna be any success. Not to get any money back, but at least those who work on future investments or those who work on investments now will know that it is not worth it. But in today’s justice, one who gets sick and practically never gets convicted. This is the case in Slovenia. Some of them can't even find them anymore, so to speak. Some people can't get hot, some get sick, and so on. So, without this last body in this penal policy, the sanctioning policy – if it does not work, such irregularities will also occur in the future. And I think that this meeting is meant to stop such irregularities from happening or at least not to do so. In short, TES 6 is urgently needed as a project and it is necessary to start working today on the question of what to do to make Slovenian energy policy more rational and more efficient and how to ensure that the energy infrastructure projects that are in place continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Richard Branisel has the floor. Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik is behind him.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Madam President. The proposer of today's meeting has made a point in which today's debate is scheduled to take place. Today's debate is supposed to answer the question whether this government controls the investment in TES 6. And with this issue, the framework for today's debate should be given. We are talking about everything else that we have talked about a long time ago, and the answer to this relevant question is, of course, yes. The Minister controls the investment in TES 6 at this time and the government also has the investment in TES 6 under control. Although we all need to know that both the Government and the Minister of Light Years are far from the decision makers in HSE and in TES 6. The motioner makes it clear to the Minister that he did not comply with certain requirements to be imposed on the Minister by the National Assembly. In this particular case, the Legislative and Legal Service has already said that the National Assembly cannot make any demands to the Minister, so recommendations have been adopted, and these recommendations, which have been adopted here, are adhered to by the Minister. However, even if it had not been adopted, the Minister would have done just as he did, knowingly, and that this matter would have been completed. At the Ministry, they also ordered some analysis with the Attorney General's Office. The State Defence Department has carried out this procedure in cooperation with the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space and the Ministry of Finance. The purpose of this was to review the documentation in civil law, to establish alleged null and void treaties, infringements in civil law, and, in the event of any suspicion of criminal offences, to inform the law enforcement authorities thereof. Another thing we forget when we say that nothing is done – remember, we are witnessing various house investigations that take place with former actors in these stories. So we can't say nothing's done. It works at the NPU, the D.A. and so on, and the law enforcement authorities will do what it takes to do here. Let's move on. Project No. 5. The basis was some revision of KPMG, some audit house which, following an audit, found that not all relevant sources of information were available or disclosed and concluded that knowledge of additional relevant documents and information could lead to different audit conclusions. What does that tell us? That when we change when we do the NIP, we have to do it in a way that reflects the actual state of the NIP, and we need to do it properly, professionally. And if we want to get to NIP 6, then we need a little more time than we do by 18. 11. 2013 We would also like a thorough forensic examination of the complete event in this story. We know that we cannot impose these tasks on the Court of Auditors in such legislation. However, we want to adopt a law where we will also define this part and order an institution that will also carry out a forensic investigation. And once again, the answer to the question of whether this government controls the investment in TES 6 is certain to say yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Kavticnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u102	Thank you very much. TEM 6 was written about, at least by those responsible for the investment, say more than a thousand pages. There were more than tens of thousands of words, sentences and clues spoken, and therefore I cannot understand that those responsible for the investment, from the heads of government, ministers, supervisory councils and supervisors, did not know what was going on in this investment. If they did not know, then they did their work very carelessly, for if they did not report to them, they would themselves be required to report to them. Today we are talking about that the investment programme, i.e. NIP 6, is not clear, is not complete and so on. Yeah, which one was it? Was the NIP 1 perfect? NIP 2? NIP 3? NIP 4? NIP 5? The investment has increased, it's always increased. That means she wasn't controlling. I thank my colleague Visiak for having this debate here today. A year ago, I asked two ministers, Minister Cernac and Minister Šuštersic about the investment of TEŠ 6. Since I was not satisfied and did not get the right answers, satisfactory answers, I wanted to have a general debate here. But look at him, you did not allow me, these same Members, these same Members' Group, but it is true that Visjak was then Minister, that he was not a Member. Perhaps then I would convince my colleagues that it would be good to hold a debate to come clean about this biggest investment in the energy space in Slovenia. Nevertheless, we note that Slovenia's energy system is the fourth best system in Europe, among the four best systems in Europe. It provides us with a normal supply of electricity, it provides us with a price that is significantly lower than the average in Europe, but this system is not in itself, it is not on its own. This system is made up of hydropower plants, thermal power plants and nuclear power plants, and this is a system. TES provides energy when other systems do not provide it. That means we'd either be out of power then or we'd be buying it. My dears, it says -- I didn't make that up, that's what experts say -- to pay 10 to 30 times the price at the time. Today, some talk about ensuring the price of coal, about a fixed price. Please tell me – where we live – whether we know what the price of bread will be next month. We know that the price of energy at our pumps changes for 14 days. It is impossible to talk about price stability today. Of course, we need to talk about the system, and we have a system. And I'm happy to tell you: I listened skeptically for the first time when Minister Omerzel came to us, but I realized that he was a man, a man who wanted to know who wanted to get information, and he could tell. He said much more and significantly better than the previous ministers when I asked them a question and they had known matter for a long time. We can't plan ahead if we don't have a little historical memory. Behind every project, for every investment, there are people, as we say, who are objectively responsible. 23. 11. 2005 was granted an energy permit for block 6 with the power of 500 megawatts – the government of Janez Janša, Minister Andrej Vizjak, the leadership of HSE Jože Zagozhen, and we will talk, HSE is the owner of TES – Dr. Milan Medved and so on. If Dr. Milan Medved was really so bad, I don't know why you thought he was the leader of HSE, and it's been a while. But look, for the 21st miracle. 5. 2006 The same government and the same leadership accept the acquired energy permit for block 6 with a power of 600 megawatts. Not this government, but the government has approved – yes, it should be aware of it. And now this leap was between 500 and 600 megawatts — on what basis? Probably on the basis of some arguments, and that's professional justification. And as we said before, prices went up from the NIP to the NIP, and no one would answer for that. I'm sorry, we really have a problem with that. We call it anything when we talk about political or such personnel, politics has to participate in the recruitment of state-owned companies, but not in the recruitment of people who do not trust them, who are not proven to be. Let him recruit experts and not soldiers. I will therefore support the conclusions adopted and endorsed by the Committee and have not yet been convinced that I will support the motioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mag. Mr Andrej Vizjak on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u104	I am surprised at Mr Kavtičnik, because I know that the Member was in a previous reference, or LDS, that he knows how and who leads such an investment in the country. And Mr Kavtičnik knows very well that the investment in Block 6 was not carried out by the government of Janez Janša and not by any other government, nor was she responsible and responsible for any operational decisions concerning this investment, which you in particular accused the government of Janez Janša at the beginning of your debate. Once again, the investment in Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectric Power Plant is the investment of the Šostanj Thermoelectrica. The thermal power plant Šostanj is a subsidiary of Holdinga Slovenske Power Plant, or 100 % owned by Holding Slovenske Power Plant. Holding Slovenian Power Plants is owned by the State in 100 %. The government as the executive branch of the government has only the responsibility of the Assembly – I speak for that time, even in the years I was Minister, 2004-2008, and now this is no longer – the company HSE, and HSE is essentially the assembly of the company Termoelectrica Šostanj. Holding the Slovenian power plant, other than management, was also limitedly responsible for carrying out this investment alone. Mr Kavtičnik, I strongly protest that you are instilling lies and deception in this national assembly of any government, that it has led this investment in an operational way and that it is also responsible for operational matters. That's what you said. In doing so, you want to clearly confuse some of the fellows who are responsible for the operational functioning of this investment, and it is the operational management of this process and this investment that has led us there as we have. I cannot explain myself in any other way than that those responsible are not wanted to be found and that this is encouraged by governments, especially the governments of Janez Janša. Why isn't that something you want? For this reason, Mr Kavtičnik, since the Government, your Government, imposed on 15 July both the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Finance to examine the legality of the conduct of the authorities of these companies, both the TES and the Slovenian Power Plant Holding, and to make a report within three months. Three months since July, it's October. That report isn't here today. The State Defence report by the Minister of Infrastructure at the meeting of the Committee is not at all a report on the legality of the conduct of the authorities of these companies, but rather a report by the Office of the Defence to answer the question of the Ministry of Infrastructure regarding the possibility of invalidity of the Alstom-TES Treaty. That is said, Mr Kavtičnik, that your government does not want to, because it has neither implemented this decision nor your ministers. In doing so, the defence has expressed itself as inappropriate and does not wish to determine the responsibilities, legality of the conduct of the TES and HSE bodies. Because if that were the will, we would have done it. You have a government decision for what you have not executed. We don't have this report here today, Your Honor. 7. Government Decision of 15. 7. talks about the fact that these three authorities are obliged to do so and report to the Government, and Parliament later said that it also reports to Parliament. None of this happened. And you, Sir Kavtičnik, here allow yourself to accuse some governments and some prime ministers and some ministers of what we should seek and hand over to the law enforcement authorities. I don't see anything else in these instigations of yours than running away from responsibility and turning my attention to others.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Replica has Mr. Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Andrej Vizjak, I have spoken of objective responsibility and please do not tell me that I have been talking about operational responsibility. I know exactly what is operational and what is an objective responsibility. However, no Prime Minister and no Minister can escape from objective responsibility. The objective responsibility is precisely because you yourself said that the country is 100 % owner of HSE and this 100% owner of TES, and that is clear to us. By someone having to do their job, and so do I. I was grateful that you were able to convene this meeting today. What this minister and this government must do will have to do. We are not running away from this, and I will demand it as a Member myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Visjak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u108	Dear Mr Kavticnik, you, together with Mr Meho and some other Members, have proposed in this National Assembly a guarantee law for renting a loan to the European Investment Bank in Block 6. You suggested it. The then government added conditions to your proposal. One of the most important conditions is that it has limited the investment to EUR 1.3 billion. And who, honourable Member, will be responsible if the price is higher? Who will be responsible objectively? That government? You? Who will be responsible? I think that this government, the government of Alenka Bratušek, in which you are forming a coalition, will be responsible if this investment exceeds the guarantee conditions and if what the Director-General of HSE has also said is fulfilled and implemented – that there is a great danger that this guarantee will be cashed out.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u109	Thank you very much. First, he wanted a replica of Mr. Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u110	Mr. Visac, you won't let go. What you've done now, what you've just said, is too big. As a Member, I have the right to propose any law that is legal, which has all the elements. And you're not gonna say that I'm responsible for this. And as a government, you were responsible for everything, and you are. NIP 5 and that you wrote a condition of a billion 300 million – you lied to us.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Kavtičnik had a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Let me get this straight. Yeah, I signed under this law just for that. Not because I don't know what kind of toilet lobby or anything. When people talk about a joke lobby in here, they think it's some kind of networking, that we're bad people. But the people in the Valley of Shale are doing well, hard work, and honest work. If they are and if you know that anyone has committed anything, then that's what you have to say. I signed this law to enable Slovenia to supply electricity normally. Because TES isn't about the Valley of Silesia, it's about Slovenia. And it's okay, I'm gonna keep a very close eye on what's been going on from the NIP 5 to the NIP 6. I will follow, I will watch, and, of course, those who have to answer, if they have failed, have informed us that this price is the right one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Visjak, on behalf of the proposer, and then we will proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u114	Dear Mr Meh, the government is obliged to respect the laws and you owe them before you accept them, even to check or accept them in good faith. The law was adopted on the basis of a revised investment programme that experienced the review and this price was then generally accepted. You supported her, too, and now you can't run from it. The current government must respect this law. It is the objective responsibility of this government if it does not respect it. For under these conditions a law and a guarantee were passed. And, Mr Kavtičnik, I did not speak negatively at all – I do not know if I even mentioned the jesting lobby. By the way, my mom was from Shale Valley, and I'm afraid she's already dead, and I have a very good opinion on the people of the Shale Valley.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Meh, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u116	Yeah, that's too big again. We in Parliament should check that the information they gave us as a government in the National Assembly is correct. That's what you said, Mr. Visac. Come on, come on.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Visjak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u118	Once again, you have submitted the law to Parliament. The government provided the conditions for this investment to be limited and the conditions provided by the Government were based on the peer review of the investment programme. So far, you don't have another better investment development. When you use such words, who lies and deceives, first look in the mirror.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Now I give the floor to the Minister who wanted to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u120	Thank you, Madam President. These statements that this government is running away from the responsibility of not wanting to look for those responsible — would be difficult to find words to describe what absurdness it is. After everything we've heard today, after all the information we've presented, after all the work that's been done, I think it's more than obvious where we're taking things and why we want to get the whole story to the bottom. I must say that, as far as the institutions in this country are concerned, I have no doubt that all institutions, within their respective competences, will be able to do what they are responsible for, and that they will also be looking for the responsibility for where we are today with the investment of TES 6 for all irregularities. I'm talking about the police, the KPK, the Court of Auditors, everything this country has at its disposal. What this government can do, what these institutions have warned us about, and I have already reiterated today that we will do – we will give all the necessary legal basis, that these institutions will be able to cooperate and that once in the entire history of this investment we will come to the bottom and find out where the irregularities have also been committed. When we talk about responsibilities for promotion from 1.3 to 1.4 – we will also look for these responsibilities. I'm sure they're one of the Ministry's powers, the other is all the other institutions in this country. And once again, I trust in these institutions, and I'm sure we'll get to the bottom of this.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u121	Thank you very much. On behalf of the proposer, Mr Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u122	Dear Minister, then report what you've done to the government's conclusions. The Government's decision has obliged you, too, to prepare a report on the legality of the conduct of HSE and TES authorities and to submit this report within three months. You didn't do anything. Where is this report, Your Honor? And you say don't run from responsibility. This report is not available, and you are citing to law enforcement authorities and even pleading that the law enforcement authorities do not have all the appropriate powers! I think the law enforcement authorities have all the appropriate powers. But if they don't, then God help us. If there can be deceptions by the various responsible in such a large project, and you are saying today that we do not have adequate legal grounds for prosecution, then I am seriously concerned. I think we have them, but I don't think it's in your interest to pursue and seek and to point out those who, in your opinion, have been deceiving. That was the government's decision. You last presented a report on everything else on the committee, but not on it. Tell me, Mr Omerzel, who, in your opinion, is responsible for the management of HSE and TES companies, who have acted unlawfully, has come to this project situation as it is today. Tell me, answer me very clearly. It wasn't me who made that decision. It was your government. You accepted it, too, because you were at this meeting of the government. In fact, it was a written meeting and you probably voted in favour of such a decision by the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Now Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Since I still have some time available, I would like to say a few thoughts on this matter, namely that we would not support the recommendations made by the proposaler to convene today's meeting of the National Assembly, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. We will not support this because we estimate that the Government is doing well in this matter, leading the activities that will lead to the conclusion of this investment as soon as possible, in the right direction. We also assess that the matter is being handled by Minister Omerzel, who is working very hard to make matters transparent, to close the investment as soon as possible, and that there would be no re-incentivisation. If I could continue, I would find that today no one in the National Assembly has found that the investment should be completed prematurely. No one, at least in my behaviour, has made such a proposal. I can also say, and some have also said that such a move would cost a lot of money and that these would probably be greater than we would have made an investment to the end. Also, the fact that no one among us would have hoped to build such a monument in the Valley of Shale. The President of the Government also felt that the investment should be continued. The next important step I would like to point out is that the matter needs to be investigated. All the procedures that have been followed throughout this investment must be verified and the findings reported to the National Assembly, the Government and the public, and proceedings against those responsible shall then be instituted with the law enforcement authorities. Today, Mr Braniselj has already stated here that the procedures at the NPU and the State Prosecutor's Office are already under way, and this is the right thing to do now, and to verify all the procedures of both SDH and TES administrations and supervisory councils. So it is necessary to ensure, as I have already said, that the investment in Block 6 of the Heat Power Plant is completed as soon as possible and that this prevents further auctioning of this investment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Starman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! Clearly, we have major problems with the management of state property, with state-owned companies. It shows up everywhere, and there's no way we can find a way to make this better. I think that we have been on the right track and that we have been harmonising for too long about the Slovenian State Holding Act, which should give at least some guidance and better management of state property. I think that this law should indeed be made by means of an emergency procedure that is now changing into a hearing. Now, let's get something concrete. In this case, I think that many of the words we have heard are unnecessary, because our first and most important task of the Government and all of us who can do anything to help do so is that the investment is completed as soon as possible. I'll tell you what that means. According to some plans, I predict one year of operation of TES 6, that means about €65 million of depreciation. We will make so many positive new values in this project. We will spend 15 billion on employees' salaries, but 30 million is foreseen for funding costs. All of this is quite over 100 million euros. There is also a profit forecast when I looked at it for one year, 30 million euros. If that were the case, then it's here, for example, 150 million new values. But if I say that we're going to be without profit, that the revenue is going to get irked, that something else is going to change, then one year of operation is going to bring 100 million new values, if there's any profit, or 130 or 140. This is every day that doesn't work, about 300 to 400 thousand euros of new value. There is something else to be added to this. I looked at TES 6, the current condition. In 2012, TES created 250 million and a few million revenues, created 32 million euros in profits, created a positive new value for depreciation, 33 million euros, and for 20 million euros in labour costs. This all falls into the category of new value, and this is 100 million euros. You said you'd have to go to the summer base sooner or later, and every day, when this would stop, you'd lose 300,000 euros. Then let's take a look at the coal mine. In 2012, the coal mine hired a thousand 332 people and created 19 million euros in profits. For the salaries of these thousands of 300 people, who are obviously not poorly paid, we have earmarked, this is a positive gross product, 56 million euros, and 18 million euros for depreciation. This is also said to have created 90 million new values in the mine. In short, if we leave all of this now, we will stop operating in these parts that are no longer usable, we will virtually lose about 300 to 400 million a year, or about one million to one million 200 thousand euros a day. People, don't play with it, and let's really make every effort to get it over with as quickly as possible. When I used to say some numbers, the profits that occur in the electricity system – this is one of the branches where money is. And I believe someone got itchy with their fingers and took advantage of such a huge investment and did something to themselves. Please, let's really speed this up. Let us take any steps to investigate and properly punish those who have done anything here illegal, dishonest, and force them to return what they have received if this has really happened. In short, let's put this on the agenda, let's do something to make it operational, because we're playing with big money and with big consequences for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Now it is Mr Ivan Grill, Mr Janez Ribič, and then Mr Tomaž Lisec is ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u128	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear coalition, in your debates, it has been often obvious that the Slovenian Democratic Party, with the request of this meeting, wants to turn or blame you as a coalition here again, and not least the Government for all these irregularities, which we can say today, that sparrows can already be chirping on the roof, that many irregularities have been identified, but no sanctions. But look, if we didn't ask for today's debate, we wouldn't know anything about the course of this investment. Six months have passed since the meeting of the National Assembly in July, where the Government has very clearly imposed on both the Ministry of Infrastructure and other institutions that, as far as this investment is concerned, certain measures must be taken or initiated. Let us see if anything has actually been done since then. Practically nothing. Earlier, a colleague of Braniselj said that the current government is in control of this investment. I can't agree with that. I could agree with such a statement in the event that this government would really try to keep this investment within the framework laid down by the guarantee law. This means that the value of this investment is 300 billion. Now, both the Minister and all those who are trying to seduce this debate in a completely different direction, you are arguing that this is the fact that the investment is such that the contracts are signed and that the investment will be a billion 400 and more. Was there any progress here, or is it really the power here to credit some credit to both the minister and the government, that this investment has been accelerated in any way, or has it not finally been rationalized? Nothing at all. Just taking facts, that's all it took. And what can we do now, find out? Actually, it's nothing. Finally, we will find that the investment was so much and so much exceeded by the guarantee law. Some of the coalition MPs you've also tried to tell us to challenge the completion of this investment. See, the big question is what will be the price of this plant's operation in the future, but today it is virtually impossible for anyone to imagine that this investment would stop. And probably there's a reason that all those actors who have been insidious about this investment have been teasing us all along with annexes, false reports or investment programs, that once this train is on its way, it's virtually impossible to stop it. They were aware of this, and they actually succeeded. But look, here's politics, the National Assembly, and not least, the government shouldn't stand or sit with their hands crossed. Mr Minister, in this opinion, the Government has instructed you to draw up solutions and conclusions within three months, and I or all of us would expect that, as you can see, as Members, you and the previous governments are likely to be misled by various novel investment programmes, and not least by the cost specification, the contracts themselves, and so on. We all find that it definitely was. But have you done anything to identify and not least sanction the responsibility of those who have been signed under such false reports, not least under those who have probably committed crimes? If what you stated earlier was necessary to amend the legislation could have been written by the Government within two months after the decision was taken, I believe that within two hours. And they'd say we can't do that because we have legal restrictions here. And we would write: we will propose these changes to the law in order to have a legal basis for those institutions to do their business. That wasn't there. Now you have probably summarized the words of Mr Praprotenik, who said that there is not enough legal basis for all these institutions to carry out their work. Although I believe it is probably not true that the competent law enforcement institutions in Slovenia would not have the authority to investigate such irregularities. So it's probably a stallion or a diversion. As far as the matter goes. What can we expect from you, since even on a committee where I was not present, but I was reading the tape and also following the meeting, and I did not see any predictions for the future from you today? How will this matter proceed, how will it proceed, what can we expect? And this debate today I believe it will not detect the culprits. It is also unlikely that it will even set a deadline for this power plant to start operating. I also believe that it will not even be cheap, today's debate. Perhaps, however, it can help some to start doing their work properly and to contribute, within their competences, to a real speeding-up conclusion of this investment and, last but not least, to a cost. If this is true, which has already been said in the debate today, that certain contracts are without fixed amounts, it means that there is some variation – I hope that it will not be encouraged down here – to take advantage of this possibility, not least because of some decisions that might help you to implement such contracts in the National Assembly. So this debate today is useful, for sure. Without this requirement, neither the public nor we would know as much as we are going to do today, even though we don't know much anymore. We know that the Government has not done its job, the Ministry and the other institutions, either. So not here with some insulted debates to point to us, but especially those who, in the past, in good faith and even with arguments, have rightly made a decision to go into such an investment. Even if we did not go to the investment of the Czech Power Plant, we should look for another form of electricity production, because without this we would certainly not be as sovereign as we could if we were energy independent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Fox, you have the floor. After him, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u130	Nice greeting, Vice President, Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! When I was preparing for this meeting, I said that I would certainly talk about the current situation, because the Minister would send us with information about the past, especially what he did in his mandate or, above all, what he had committed himself to or what the Government had committed himself to. Seven. 2013 when it adopted its opinion on TEM 6. And I have to say, the more I read these seven conclusions she's adopted, the less I understand or the more, the less I know. Apart from the obvious fact that the 1st decision was adopted and realized, it is that the Government of that day only became aware of the information about the situation, and that is where we remained. Dear Minister, I have been away from all hours today for only 15 minutes, and I believe that, even at that time, my colleagues and colleagues have not received any wise answers. Let's do it in one order at a time. The government then wrote: "The government notes that the project does not provide performance in time and price frameworks as defined in the investment decision." More than that, when we passed the guarantee law, we agreed that the top price of the project was 1.3 billion, and most members of the National Assembly confirmed that. I was against it myself, because for years now I have not believed this project, I do not believe its happy ending. Moreover, even after this monument of stupidity has been made, its price will be negative for the Slovenian economy, except that we will be given as much energy as we can for a few years, but this price will be paid by citizens and citizens not only directly over the price of electricity, but also through new taxes that are some balance for this lost project. In short, today there is nothing new about the timing and price framework of this project. Third conclusion: "The Government proposes to the Court of Auditors, within its competences, to carry out an audit of the investment in Block 6." I hope that at least the Court of Auditors in this country is still doing something because obviously the other institutions, especially the Ministry, are not doing their job. I wonder, Minister, if you have any answers about the work of the Court of Auditors. And then fourth, one of the key things we listen to today, especially from coalition colleagues, who are full of mouths, how to explore everything, how to open every hole, forensic investigations, and I don't know what. Jehovah’s Witnesses, 8 / 15 Seven. 2013: "The government orders the Ministry responsible for infrastructure..." – it is you, the Minister with the team – "... to prepare, through the help of an international independent specialised society, an overview of possible options and a proposal for further steps." Colleagues, colleagues, you have everything at your disposal, and you don't do that. Why? I will not let go of which political option within the existing government coalition is the one that is the burden, but unfortunately these problems will obviously solve international specialised companies and we will present the bill to Slovenian citizens and citizens. Moreover, the government orders the TEC to no later than 30. Ten. 2013 prepare an amendment to the investment programme for block 6 TES project, i.e. NIP 6. We're almost 30 today. 1. 2014, three months out of date. I must say that, despite the fact that I have been looking both at colleagues who are members of the Infrastructure Committee, as well as at all others, there is neither the spirit nor the hearing. There's something about a draft that I'm going to say is a ghost in an empty bottle. In short, Minister, I'd like to know how you're connected to the management of the TEC and the hydro power plant to clear this matter up. But it's about responsibility later. The government orders Holding of Slovenske Power Plants to also present by 30 October 2013 the impact of the changed investment situation in Block 6 on the liquidity, business and business results of HSE and TEŠ and the risk assessment of the cash guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm asking for a thorough answer. And finally, the State's Attorney's Office in cooperation with your ministry and the Ministry of Finance within three months, that's up to 15. 10. prepare a report on the legality of the conduct of HSE and TES bodies. Here I only agree when some coalition colleagues have also said when and whom we will bring before the right hand to be held accountable for his actions. Who are the leaders or supervisors within HSE and TES, who are the ones who are taking this investment, not the heads of government and ministers, and I don't know what to drive this government – who will answer anything? If we are concerned with objective responsibility, which has previously been transferred to the ministries and ministers, then you too are objectively responsible. So, coalition Members who refer to the past should also look at the present and also ask you about your responsibility, because your objective responsibility is that you are currently a minister and it is your current responsibility to bring the matter to an end. For today we will decide on the decision, where we have prepared the amendments, where it says: "The National Assembly took note of the Government's activities regarding the implementation of the recommendations of the National Assembly adopted by the National Assembly at an extraordinary meeting." I say, almost all the time I've been here in the hall, but I haven't heard these activities, but I'll be very happy to hear them, and you'll probably be in the following – I think you've got another half an hour – with the pleasure of introducing them. And finally the stupidest: "The National Assembly supports the Government's presented efforts to solve this problem." Mr Minister, once again, I will be pleased to see the Government's efforts to resolve this problem presented in the lines. Not what you presented, the issue of TES 6. We all know that. I'm interested in the government's efforts to solve this problem. So, since 15. Seven. 2013 and beyond. For you yourselves have said, We have solutions for the future. We will do much more. Let us not run away from responsibility. Minister, everything I have said - I will be happy to have your answers after the opinions, because also your coalition colleagues, especially the leader of the party's parliamentary group from which you come, said, "The Minister is in charge of the matter." I'll be glad you'll explain this for a long and broad period of time. In short, I believe that you are not here today to say the final price, because you probably don't even know it yourself, probably doesn't know the management of TES or the management of hydro power plants. However, I am afraid that this price is already rising or that we are still and will continue to be misled by Members, regardless of what conclusions we take. However, the fact that if we look at the European comparison of comparable facilities is about the same price as the one accepted by the Yangtze government. And that price is very comparable, and here I agree with my colleague Pavlisic, that price is very real. What is now, a 150 percent raise in price, is normal only in our Slovenia, where we place a monument not even the Butals have, it is a monument to stupidity. I am truly sorry that we are talking today about whether the completion of the project is yes or no. Should we stop him? That would be even more stupid than the Butlers themselves. Although I agree that, in view of what is happening with the adoption of the energy law that we have in the National Assembly and we will finally adopt it next week, we can only agree that the energy concept of this government is in the grey clouds, and this translates into the next years and decades, because, as I said then, it will be difficult to talk about energy policy when we discuss this law, because money will run out. In short, I have no choice but to agree that the project is concluded to accept this monument of nonsense. Minister, I expect to hear from you further or at the end of this meeting the answers to the decisions you have adopted as Minister or as Government. So, what happens in the Court of Auditors, how will the responsibility of the TES, the management of the TES, the hydropower plant, and everything else that is written here. That we can truly say that we support the Government's presented efforts to solve this problem. I don't see the effort, except looking back into history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko now has the floor, and Mr Franz Jurša is behind him.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u132	Thank you very much. I thought Mr. Secretary would respond, but he didn't. In the presentation of the Minister and in his debates in these interventions, we have heard the very non-essential things, that is all that is not the subject of today's agenda. Today's agenda item is the realization of the Government's conclusions and the realization of the conclusions of the National Assembly. The Government appointed the Minister to report to it on the measures taken in July until 15 October. I ask the Minister if he has presented within this time limit the solutions that the Government has imposed on him. I ask the Minister if he has not done so whether the Government has extended the deadline for the preparation of these documents by a decision. The National Assembly instructed the Government to prepare a report on the future fate of TEC and on the findings made by the Commission by 30 November last year. I ask the Minister whether he has submitted this to the Council of State and ask the Minister if he has not submitted this, whether he has requested an extension of the deadline for the submission of what is to be submitted to the National Assembly. Not at the government and not at the National Assembly. And what I'm talking about is typical of doing this coalition, not only the minister, but also these coalitions. And you obviously enjoy the fact that the Government does not respect and realize its own commitments and does not respect the commitments to the National Assembly. All coalition members have been very pro bono, and you have been arbitrarily discussing this position of minister and government. Interesting. The Minister did not fulfil any of the commitments made in these conclusions until 30 November last year. Not a single commitment. As soon as we applied for an extraordinary session, something began to move, which is interesting. And one more thing. Given that the Government has not proposed a change in the guarantee law, and the law is the only basis on which this investment can be made to some extent, that is a billion 302 million euros, that is, if matters are exceeded, there are several persons in Velenj and in this country in the Government who are more than the law that they are taking, more than the law and no one is acting. The Minister did not make one move in the sense of sanctioning those who violate the law. One move, not one move, Minister. You can laugh. You can have the support of all coalitions and anyone else, but you're breaking the law, breaking the bonds and oath you gave here to respect the constitutional order. Do you respect him? Not nearly. And I ask when we will receive Members of the National Assembly's requests and conclusions, the answers to these decisions, which were adopted and whose delivery deadline was 30 November 2013. That's not funny. This is sad, because by the fact that the Minister has not done so and by the fact that matters are going beyond the law and by the measures that the Minister should have proposed, if he has found out, this means that in this country it actually works, Mr Minister, parallel world, parallel society, parallel systems. And you, as secretary, are at the head of this system within your department. You're at the head of the TES pyramid, which works illegally because you don't do anything. You've done nothing against any responsible person. Inside TES and this project are essentially the same people always. If you change one, the other comes from the same circle up. You did it. You can check that out. In short, there's nothing going on in this area. Mr Starman used to talk about added value. What, though, is the added value of a project that brings loss or will result in loss — I think the minister said three more years? What's the added value? 400 grand a month or 400 grand a month of loss? Interestingly, economists, financiers and so on talk about data, about numbers, about results, where it is definitely clear that these data are not being kept. I was expecting a NIP 6, a document on the table. Why isn't he here, Mr. Secretary? Why is this such a mysterious document if you have it? I don't think it makes any sense for you to hide a public document from our Members. If you have it. These are acts that are typical of this coalition. When something is said, something is said in this national assembly, and the truth is quite different. And it's bad that those who are more committed to accuracy than Members say that. Minister, if anyone, then the government representative must talk about numbers, information that is accurate and not approximate, not indicative. And you're committed to law enforcement, and you don't. So any consensus you give to the coalition members on this action, this project and this approach, is to cover illegal acts, clientism, and probably, as much as corruption is said. You're here. That is why Mr Meh is so impressed, because it is likely that a large part of this will also remain around the TES crash, Velenje and so on. These are sad things, Mr Meh, and I must say that all those who have initiated this project in one way or another to develop into such dimensions bear great responsibility, even morally. And the financial consequences for this country will be severe, needless. Above all, Mr Minister, we expect from you, as my colleague Lisec said, an answer after the points set out in the decision. This meeting is convened to determine what is happening to these conclusions. And I'd ask nicely: I did it by the hand, I didn't do it by the hand, I did something else before that hand, or I didn't do anything at all. Our opinion, my opinion, is that you've done absolutely nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Meh has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u134	Mr Tanko, TES will remain fully in Scotland. He's not going anywhere. He'll keep working there. People will continue to have jobs, miners and, of course, electricians. And Slovenian energy will get the energy it urgently needs. That's why we used to work TES. Of course, it is bad when someone talks about what someone should do and what someone should not do and talks about what opposition Members should do. We already know what we have to do, and we will do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jursha, you have the floor. Mr. Branko Smodish is behind him.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Nice greetings to the Minister and colleagues and to you, dear colleagues and colleagues! Once in the past, when I was not yet a Member of Parliament, we were asked by the citizens about the thermal power plant at the referendum. At the time, as a citizen, it was very strange for me to be asked whether we would have a thermal power plant or not. Things are going a little differently now. I also have more information. I understand them sometimes in my own way, simple and simple. And it probably looks like that when we think about how much money has to be spent on this project, who is responsible and not responsible, and how people who are supposed to be responsible are committed to each other. One and the other government is transferring to another government. No one would take any responsibility. The first thing is, and it has probably been repeated several times today, in any case we owe these citizens to ask those responsible to make an audit with an international agenda, to see exactly who was filling in this project, filling their pockets or working in the interest of those who were also filling their pockets. In any case, we probably have no choice but to continue the project, as 85% of the works carried out in this project have been paid 1.1 billion euros and some contracts have already been agreed on. There's probably no other option here. No government has had the courage to say in the past: we will stop this project because the cost-benefit analysis is not based on basic data, and this thermoelectric power plant in the future [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Procedurally has Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Several questions were raised here regarding the implementation of the agreements or decisions of the National Assembly which were adopted at an extraordinary meeting and whose currency expired on 30 November. And I'd like to ask the Minister to say, by 30 November, the following was reported to the National Assembly, for the first time, for the second time, for the third time. He was assisted by conclusions adopted by the Government and then adopted by the National Assembly. I did, I didn't do it. This is the topic of today's agenda item, and I propose that the Minister responds. By indents, as it was done. And it doesn't make any sense for us to move around here and make fun of each other, but to say to the minister: I did this job then and then whether I didn't, to report to the National Assembly or not, to propose a change of date or not, to break the guarantee law in order to realize the TES or not. These questions have been asked only in recent times, to which there is no answer. The same thing happened the morning the thing started running. No concrete response to what has been said in the conclusions adopted in the conclusions of the National Assembly and to what we want answers to this meeting. That's the key problem. For my sake, you can talk about everything else, I don't mind much, but we want concrete answers to these conclusions and also to why the Government didn't come to the National Assembly in order to get a conclusion that the deadline for reporting in this case needs to be extended. This is currently the largest project in the country and there are no reports. When you ask for a report, this is where the government team and the coalition MPs smile. Then what's this about? Is this one serious approach to a billion 300 and something else that the minister is likely to deliver in the end? It may be a few million less than that original price after some NIP, and you will all be glad in the coalition that it is a little less, but we want answers to what was done in time and what was not done in time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u139	Thank you very much for this procedural proposal. The Minister has already responded today and has finally signed up, so I believe that some additional answers will be given. Now I give my word to Mr. Smodish before we go to the final words.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. All present, good afternoon! It has been said here many times: we owe, we owe. Before that, my colleagues said it was a crime. They were talking about people. These persons, too, are obliged to report this to law enforcement authorities. They're owed, that's what you all said. As is the case with all of us, if we know anything, and sometimes we mention people to apply. Next. Mr. Minister, it is your job to make an investment and to investigate all irregularities. It is also responsible and sanctioned, and I think you are on the right track and that this has also become a bit of a problem as a result. And that's why this meeting happened. Next. Self-sustainment of electricity should be ensured in Slovenia. What has been said was that TES should be abolished – this should not happen because we need to have self-care and should not become dependent on foreigners, because Slovenia must not become a servant to foreigners again. And in the end I would still agree with one of my predecessors, it will really be necessary to call people to account, because [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u141	Thank you very much. And now I give my word to the Minister. Here you go, Mr. Omerzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u142	Madam President, thank you for your word. First, I must say that I am pleased today that this debate has opened. She was also instructive to me as Minister. It's kind of positive that I see different perspectives on the problem that we're dealing with so intensely. I also learned that the opposition does not listen, that they do not want to listen. In view of all the facts presented, they ask the same questions over and over again, as if we did not have the power points that we presented with the facts, with a detailed analysis and, above all, with everything we have presented, I am sure that we have given really the key information. It should be borne in mind that, in the background of this, there is one extremely large amount of work done, the vastly studied documentation, the huge work meetings held, and we have indeed tried to present only the key, most important, most relevant data on the Infrastructure Committee and today. As far as the opposition's questions are concerned, I understand this political debate and overplay, who will be who, but on such professional issues, I would still expect them to be right to listen to the material presented on the Infrastructure Committee to look at the facts presented, and it would be very clear that all the answers there are, in practice, answers to everything they have asked over and over again. But enough about this attitude of the opposition. What I am happy about today's debate is that you have also recognized that the facts that have been presented really stand behind this documentation and that the intersection of the situation is the one on which we have to work forward. I have never been too happy in my life to deal with history, but this was also necessary in the case of TES. And especially to see what mistakes have been made in the past. I am absolutely still in favour of the need for the Minister, the Minister of the Interior, in this case for energy, to know certain technical things as well. And I'm not talking about details, I'm talking about concepts, I'm talking about the fact that the Foreign Minister needs to understand what an investment programme is. I took the NIP 5 personally over the weekend and studied it over the weekend, and for those key moments, those key areas that are missing in this NIP, I found out this weekend that they're gone. As secretary, I feel obliged to do so, and on the basis of my expertise and the powers I have as minister, then I will present these facts and my knowledge to you as Members. If ministers had done so in the past, I am sure they would not have been misled. As Members, I agree with that, the opposition has also mentioned this; you cannot possibly be the one to verify this documentation. It's up to us ministers to do that. And why isn't NIP 6 still official with you? Because the whole team at the Ministry and I, as ministers, won't say it's the real story until I believe it, but when I say it is, I'll be behind those numbers. And I made it clear that NIP 6 is an unofficial document we have. We have presented the figures from the NIP 6, but I still argue that this document is not relevant, that we, as a ministry, as a minister and as a whole team, could stand behind it and say: this document was properly, professionally, and I trust in the analysis numbers that are in it. The key areas, the risks, we've all presented why these facts are so. I won't go into any more details. I am sure that the analysis for the back was done correctly, and these documents will soon come to the table in such a way that we too will believe in them. However, it should be borne in mind that the task for NIP 6 is to TES. TES must produce the NIP 6, but we have seen earlier where the Ministry’s powers are. What's more important to me: how to proceed. On the basis of the facts we know, we've gone through all the scenarios. We looked at what would happen if we stopped the investment, and we made it clear what would happen if we went to the so-called "standstill", just as clear numbers, and what to do if we went forward with the investment. And those directions were clear. We have also presented figures as to why we believe that this path is the right path, that investment must be completed as soon as possible. What is even more important: it has been mentioned many times today, various institutions, law enforcement agencies, the Court of Auditors and so on. I'll say it again. I trust the institutes in this country. The legal basis, which is not – if Mr Praprotnik, as a member of the KPK Senate, recommends to this government that it needs additional powers to cooperate with each other in these institutions, I am confident that this government will support and I am also confident that this Parliament will support these good proposals, all in order to define once every responsibility in this investment and all future ones. One thing we must all be aware of together. As Minister, I must behave responsibly both in my orientations and in my public statements, and when we talk about investment and all of Šostanje, we must be aware that at this moment, if we look at the power system of Slovenia, Šostanj represents one third of production in Slovenia. And we need to be aware of the importance of this facility for the electricity system in Slovenia, and, accordingly, we must all act responsibly, not just me as a department minister. What is important for the future and which I also spent a little more time on the infrastructure committee: why I am optimistic about the operation of the Termoelectrica Šostanja in the future. The team at the Ministry worked in parallel on the energy concept of Slovenia. We'll introduce him to the coalition. In closed, professional circles we have already presented it, and I am sure that this is one way, one story where we will fully revitalize Slovenian energy. We are going in this direction that electricity is the best possible form of energy, useful for everything, and based on the complete energy concept of Slovenia, and also of course on numbers. So, the strategy, the future of Slovenian energy, we have seen in numbers, but what is crucial is that the long-term objectives of 2020-2050 and the overall energy policy within the European Union are taken into account, and the need for electricity in Slovenia will double in the long term. Given that all European energy is united here, all the ministers responsible for energy, we are united, I am sure that it will go this way, and because of these needs on the market I am sure that the Termoelectrica Šostanj will also find its place under the sun in this concept. Therefore, I believe that this investment must be completed as soon as possible, a responsibility, a clear definition of everything, a search for what has been done wrong in the past and an appropriate action.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You've got it right. In fact, in this reply, the Minister has now spoken about everything else, except the answers to the questions raised. It was very clear whether TES 6 was carried out in accordance with the guarantee law or not. There's no answer. It was very clear whether the Minister reported to the Government and to the National Assembly within the deadlines binding, governmental and national constituencies, and reported to the Government and to the National Assembly. There's no answer. And if the Minister does not say anything to such key questions, it is more than obvious that he does not have the answers to these questions or hides them. In the National Assembly, he swore to respect the constitutional order. The National Assembly is also an integral part of this constitutional order. We have adopted conclusions which are binding on the Government. The government has adopted decisions which are binding on the Minister for the Ministry, and it is the duty of the Minister to respond to such clear questions. We are not interested in future scenarios on Slovenian energy. We don't even ask him that question, but we want answers to what he did with regard to the conclusions he was ordered to report to the National Assembly by 30 November last year. Now it will be two months and there are no answers today. There was no key response as Minister to the members of the National Assembly. We don't care what you have in the coalition in closed meetings. If we had a good purpose, Mr Minister, we would also inform the members of the opposition and the National Assembly of what you will do in these areas. This is not a private matter of the coalition, what will happen to Slovenian energy. I request, Madam President, that the Minister state what he has done with regard to the decisions imposed on him by the Government within the time limit and what he has reported to the National Assembly regarding the decisions imposed on him by the National Assembly at its extraordinary meeting of July. The deadline expired on November 30th last year. I want very explicit answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u145	Thank you very much for this procedural proposal. The minister's been with us all day, answering questions. As chairman, I cannot force him to answer something he may not want or in any way does not want to answer. If I still want a word, of course he will get it, but otherwise I suggest we close the debate slowly. Mr. Tanko, you have a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u146	Thank you very much. The President-in-Office, the Minister was here all day, but he did not give any answers to these questions related to the conclusions of the Government and the National Assembly. If the members of the coalition are sitting here and you have heard these answers, then something is wrong. He did not say a single sentence about what he had done with regard to the decisions of the Government and the conclusions of the National Assembly within the time limits imposed. I haven't done a single sentence in terms of whether I've done my job or not. That's the answer, Mr. Secretary, and he's not. You're talking about all the things you're going to give to the coalition that you're going to give to, I don't know who. We want an answer from you. That's why this session is happening. We have drawn up proposals for conclusions and request answers to these conclusions. They're gone. And it's obviously the way the coalition works. There's something going on somewhere, it's going to make some kind of pyro, it's like something's going on with a story, and then when there's nothing, there's a new story going on. You're not taking us, Mr. Secretary, with some closed coalition meetings. Either you did something by November 30th and gave it to the National Assembly or you didn't. That's the answer to that. If you're not, say, "No, I'm sorry, I'll do this job by the month of March." Or it doesn't matter if the coalition thinks so. You have a majority, and if you vote on what you intend to vote on, then obviously it doesn't matter what happens. Here we have just some debate, some idea, and no one takes any responsibility and takes no responsibility for what's going on. You yourself have imposed very firm obligations both in the Government and in the National Assembly. The coalition's conclusions have been adopted, proposed by the Government, and we want an answer to this. It is probably clear to you, the coalition MPs and the minister, that you have not accepted the opposition's conclusions at this point in the agenda, but government and coalition. Tell us what you have done in these terms after the content contained in these conclusions. Nothing. We can figure that out now. Because if they did anything, Mr Minister would be most pleased to stand up and say: on 15 November I did this and that, 17th and that, for the month of September and that. It's nothing. There is nothing until 30 November and not until 24 January of this year. And here we are. I suggest you take a few minutes of your time and tell us what you've done before January 24th of this year to know whether we've missed anything or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u147	Thank you, Mr. Tanko. As the Vice-President has already explained, the Minister may at any time apply to the floor and answer the questions so that he has the opportunity. I think he's taken advantage of it a lot today. The next person to have a word after the review is the proposaler of mags. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u148	Your Honor! Today's discussion, which was partly about the history of this project, and in part wanted to answer the questions of the applicants or what we have warned the applicants, has shown more than clearly that some consensus on some of the facts about this project is in place. The first consensus is that the project of this investment at this stage, when this facility is built, makes no sense to stop. I don't think there's a single person here who would've thought it was a better project to stop. However, we are all sad that we were politicians, and I believe that all governments, by the holders of this investment, are, in particular, the leaders of the Termoelectrica Šostanj and other authorities of the Šostanj Termoelectrica power plant, as well as the Slovenian Power Plant Holding, always faced with the facts being carried out. Something happened, and then the need came to decide to burn down what happened. And that's how this investment grew. This investment was also bloated with the help of a large meslin. So, this investment — this, by the way, was said by one member of the coalition — was uncontrollable by those on whom it should have been, and no one has ever been responsible for it. Government ambition 15. Last year, the governments of Alenka Bratušek, as well as this Parliament, are tasked with imposing on the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Finance and Defence, in order to determine the legality of the conduct of the authorities of the Termoelectric Power Plant and the Holding of the Slovenian Power Plant, and to report on this within three months. For we all know and also Director-General Blaž Kosorok said on Tuesday at the meeting of his mother's working body that all the ministers were misled by all the administrations. Therefore, it is more than clear that it would be good and that the answer to important questions would be if the Minister of Infrastructure and others in the Government and the State Defence were to proceed with the implementation of the Government decision, in order to examine the legality of the conduct of these companies' bodies and to report on this in fact within three months. Your Honor, today the minister has repeatedly said that he answered the same questions. Minister Sam Omerzel has not answered the question, for the first time, whether he has prepared a report on the legality of the conduct of HSE and TEC authorities, whether the Ministry has dealt with it at all, and whether any of them have already been notified to law enforcement authorities. This is one of the government's conclusions. This is one of the recommendations of the National Assembly to Minister Omerzel. There were no answers to that. And unfortunately, the minister is responding to the opposition in an extremely political manner, when he is answering the same questions over and over and over again, and we are just saying that we have not received the answers. Dear Minister, we have not received an answer to these questions. We didn't get it. You haven't mentioned a single name and you haven't done anything in this area, even though you're a department minister and you've always said there's a heart problem. The second thing the Minister hasn't responded to is the amendment of the investment programme. I see that the Minister is very involved in the amendment of the investment programme 6, although this is an investor's job. And the government has not ordered the Ministry to prepare the NIP 6 but the TES, and this NIP 6, this is called the investment programme's amendment, also includes responses to the sensitivity of the business or the result of the business output of the thermal power plant and holding company according to the price of the energy and the price of the electricity in the future. We didn't hear any of that. We have heard some influences, something tabled by the Ministry, but we have not heard these answers about the value of investment and influence. At least we've heard about the price of electricity. Worse still, it has been repeatedly pointed out that this investment calls for an independent international audit aimed at auditing, and that the minister has said only one thing — that it cannot be audited until the new investment programme is implemented. But didn't the same minister know that when he made these decisions at the government? This minister is on the government 15. 7. Decide on these decisions. I think he even suggested it. The conclusions were adopted, and now six months later he tells us that he cannot execute them because they are in some way unconstantly written. Your Honor, we really can't do this. And I'm terrified when you're satisfied here in the coalition with such a non-response, with such a lack of control of this investment, and in the end, you're very pragmatic and practically turning the blame on history and, of course, conveniently, on the government of Janez Janša, who is probably purely guilty of everything in this country. We don't ask you what you think of responsibility, but we just want you to announce those responsible to the law enforcement authorities. You didn't do it. You didn't report it. And we expect you to manage this investment further. And the investment will increase if you do not frame it, and here is seriously asked, respected Minister Omerzel, a question that also stems from the guarantee and guarantee laws: do you take care of your conduct to ensure that the guarantee law and the guarantee conditions are realized? Today you have demented this task of yours with your statements. In a way, you expressed your understanding that this investment would be more expensive, and you even predicted it would be more expensive. This means that you do not advocate your conduct in order to frame it within the framework of the guarantee law. That's a bad thing, Mr. Secretary. You are obliged under the law to frame this investment into a guarantee law. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have even advocated the history of this project that this investment is not inflated and that there is no waste. That is why, in the mandate of the government, we have finally limited it financially. And again, you're allowing this investment to be inflatable with an assistant, as I said, of great fur. So there are more than enough arguments here to implement the decisions of the government and the recommendations of Parliament, not to be presented with some power point, a quick presentation which, by the way, today in plenary session only half – you also have an obvious problem with organizing your time. And you think you've satisfied people with that and answered all the questions. The problem is that this answer is measured in billions of euros or hundreds of millions of euros. If you and your coalition Members are satisfied with these flat-rate matters – of course I am not. And also, Minister, in the end. Few ministers are afforded such a delusion by parliamentarians as you did on Tuesday when you participated in the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and Space. At this meeting of the Committee, you have said that you cannot transmit the State Defence report to Members because you do not have the green light or the permission of the State Defence Office and that you must respect the procedures. You lied about it, Minister. There is no indication that there was no reason for you not to forward this report to the Members. There was no reason. You received the State's Attorney's Office report last October with a letter. And we got it two days later, so yesterday. There was no procedure by the Ministry of Justice to allow the transmission of this report, as this report was issued in October and was sent to the Government. You've been hiding it from the Members and deceiving the Members so you can't give it to them. This alone is enough for an untrustworthy minister and for an extremely poor attitude towards Parliament or another branch of power, which has not last appointed you. I see that here you have the support of members of the coalition who obviously cannot function differently than to defend the reputation of their ministers in any way. Now something's come up, and you're protecting each other, but believe me, we'll keep alerting you in the opposition.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u149	Thank you. Procedural, Mr. Meh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u150	I, Mr President, don't know what the habit is here in Parliament when someone is obviously as rude as Mr. Visjak, who speaks demeaningly of some great Meh. Otherwise, I don't know what the habit is. I would expect that in Parliament we are relatively normal people, even in our own law as we are, and that we do not offend each other. It's not right for you to do this here. Everything I've done, I've done in good news and in what I have the right to do in this national assembly. What Mr Vizjak is saying is that I helped make this investment, that it is a great Meh, is his personal opinion. I don't know how to do this. I can't do that, Mr. Visjak is small. I can't say that, and I didn't say that. It's nature, but that's why I'm saying we shouldn't do that and it's not right to do that. That doesn't make me feel bad because I'm not like that. It would be hard to tell someone like he says, but it's not fair to do that. That's not what this is about. If we are talking about our image, about what we are Members and Members of Parliament, it would be right to speak relatively normal and not to try to list anyone with different adjectives, nicknames or anything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u151	Thank you. I hope that these explanations will be taken into account. He's a magi-proposer. The Vizjak wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u152	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if Mr Meh has recognized himself, but I've been talking about this huge bubble of investment, and balloons are usually puffed with fur and big balloons with big fur.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u153	Okay. I think it's unproductively likely that [[...]] You want procedural, Mr. Meh?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u154	Of course, I'd just like to apologize to Mr. Visionary. It's hard to understand.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u155	Thank you. By this I note that you have received the word of all those who have been reported to the debate. Nor are they reported for discussion, so I am concluding the general debate. We are moving on to a debate on the points of the complementary proposal for a recommendation and the amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate the first point of the updated proposal for a recommendation and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I invite you to report. Mag. Andrei Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u156	Dear Members and Members! As proponents of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we want this amendment, which summarizes the original text of our proposal. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u157	Excuse me, Mr. Visac. As a proponent, you're probably applying for a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u158	No, no. You're right about that.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u159	Okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u160	With this proposal, we would like to receive in Parliament the answers that the Government and the Ministry owe to the decisions taken by the Government and in view of the recommendations made by the National Assembly last July. That's all we want. We would therefore like to receive a report on the implementation of the decisions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia by presenting us with documents such as the revised investment programme, such as the report on the international audit carried out, such as the report on the legality of the conduct of HSE and TEC authorities in relation to this investment and so on. I think that, Mr President, at least what is acceptable is to repeat what we have somehow committed the Ministry and the Government to six months ago, and we have not received this report. This half-power point presentation, which was, was not a report by the Government on the implementation of the Government's decisions of 15. Seven. 2013 Sorry, that's not it. We therefore propose, as I have told you, that the Government report on the implementation of its own decisions, because we have then unanimously assessed that these conclusions are good. Parliament has supported them, but it has turned out that the Government has not executed them, and we have also expected this, given that they have been good conclusions and that not much has been done in this area. The result is today before us, and we hope your support to commit the government to do so at least in the coming months.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u161	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate the second point of the supplementary proposal for a recommendation and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Mag. Mr Andrej Vizjak, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u162	The second decision is similar to the first taken from the original text, which was destroyed by the coalition at the meeting of the parent working body. We propose that the Government prepare a report on the planned risk management measures that the investment in Block 6 represents for the operations of companies associated with this project, namely the Termoelectrica Šoštanj, Premogovnik Velenje and the HSE Group. And of course, we are also interested in how this investment will affect other energy projects in this country, which are either already under way or are planned. The Director of Holding of the Slovenian Power Plant has informed us on several occasions that all new investments, including the construction of the medium-savage chain of hydroelectric power plants, will be stopped due to the problem of this investment. We all know that the current coalition has committed itself to the conclusion of a concession contract for the construction of the mid-Savia chain within four months of its launch. Dear Mr Jani Möderndorfer, it is probably 10 or 11 months since this government's appearance. You are the most powerful party and you probably know. This deadline is exceeded. Concession contracts have not yet been concluded. This project stands, not only because there would be a lot of problems with nature and so on, but also because the investor, this is Holding the Slovenian Power Plant, does not see real possibilities to know it. Why not? Because it has this investment anyway, uncovered. So, from the Government, we want a report on how the financial situation in this company, i.e. the Slovenian Power Plant Holding, and all its subsidiaries, will affect the future of Slovenian energy. Although we have received some of the Minister's thoughts and some possible measures, indeed, but most of what you have said is not feasible, and what Mr Kosorok, Director-General of HSE, has also announced is not feasible. For example, saving around €70 million in companies, HSEs at annual level, through rationalisation measures. I want to know what measures and how. You know that people's rights are cemented by collective agreements, that any change in collective bargaining is two, three years. That's how it is. And when Mr. Koshorok announced it, the unions were already on their feet. Such a list of such measures as we have read can, however, be written on paper, but it is totally impractical, and any of those measures is not feasible. We would therefore expect the Government to have a serious report on the planned risk management measures in connection with this investment, on how we will achieve the objectives of the climate and energy package in this country while we are linked to this investment, and how, last but not least, it will be through the cashing-up of the Republic of Slovenia's investment guarantee, that is to say the guarantee for borrowing credit with the European Investment Bank. These are all things that the National Assembly should have taken an interest in issuing a guarantee for this investment a good year ago. This is the purpose of this decision, and I hope you will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u163	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u164	Thank you so much for saying that. Given that these decisions relate to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and that the Minister still has time, I would ask for the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, or the Government would support or not the recommendations proposed at this point in the agenda. Since this second recommendation is not supported by the Government, it means that it will not report to the National Assembly on what it intends to do about the risk management of TEM 6 and the operation of other companies under the electricity system. If the Minister is really so sovereign in this area, then I propose that he advises, on behalf of the Government, also members of the coalition to support these recommendations. However, if the government has a negative definition, it means that, once again, these investments in energy will run in closed circles, the information will not be available to the public, and in this case there will be tremendous opportunities for all these musculants, clientele-corruption and similar things. I think the position of the Government should be perfectly clear, transparent. The key role you play today as Minister in this function of representing the Government, and you would also expect a clear position if you are a key person for the energy field in the Government. Mr Minister, I suggest you tell me whether you agree with the recommendations or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u165	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, would you like a word? [[No, no, ……]] Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am giving the debate the title of the updated proposal for a recommendation and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, which will be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 24. 1. 2014, and you also received it on the e-klop. Please check the functioning of the voting devices. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to point 1 of the updated proposal for a recommendation. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 46. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party to point 2 of the updated proposal for a recommendation. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 45. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to the title of the updated proposal for a recommendation. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 47. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. We are moving on to a full decision on the proposal for a recommendation. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home working body would make the recommendation inconsistent. Can we vote? Explanation of the vote as a motioner or on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party of the Republic of Slovenia. Andrei Visjak, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u166	Thank you very much. I'm asking you if I have two votes then, that's what it's like to be a proponent and, as such, I understand this lapsus. I can explain the vote only on behalf of the Group of Members or as a Member, and I will explain it on behalf of the Group of Members. We will not support this recommendation, nor will we oppose it. This recommendation is soft, indeterminate, does not address the problem, and we will probably be faced with similar problems as we are drawn to it in a short time. The investment's gonna be on the ups and downs. We do not have reports from the competent ministers on the implementation of the guarantee and guarantee law, and how, Mr President, we will be interested in the implementation of this law or in the conditions under which this State Council gave this investor the guarantee. We have a feeling, and these acts by the coalition today strengthen this feeling that there is a free hunt for additional vampires and vows to this investment. This saddens us, because this will be paid by Slovenian taxpayers. This investment is not managed upwards. The restriction voted by this Parliament on the maximum possible value of the investment will obviously not be respected. This means that this investment will once again be part of some predatory story, probably people close to or behind the current coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-24-SDZ6-Izredna-53.ana.u167	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 4. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against four.]] I take it that the recommendation has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also conclude the 53rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you and good-bye for the next session.
