ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 7th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Member and Members are unable to attend today's meeting: Mrs Eva Irgl, Mrs Ludmila Novak from 13 a.m., Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, Mr Andrej Čuš, Mr Jan Mahnic, mag. Ange Logar, Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr Matjaž Hanžek, mag. Marko Pogačnik, Mr Luka Moon from 11.30 a.m., Dr. Franz Duck and Mag. Matthew Tonin by 12 o'clock. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to five. On the day-to-day basis, this is to the contrary a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on State Administration within the framework of the urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Public Administration Boris Koprivnikar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you for this opportunity to further explain the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration, which we propose to you for consideration and adoption. The amendment of the Law on State Administration follows amendments to the Government Act. Thus, the law redefines the competences of the new ministries, in particular the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Public Administration. In addition, amendments are proposed which relate mainly to the management of state administration information and communication systems, real estate management and the whole area of public procurement. At the Ministry of Public Administration, we want to gradually take over the management of information and communication systems relating to ministries, government services, bodies in the composition and administrative units, and take over the overall management of the information and communication infrastructure and the development of common information solutions and the implementation of the Single Information Security Policy. It is important that these procedures have been initiated already in 2013 and 2014 and that, practically on the basis of those analyses that have already been prepared, we gradually continue to carry out a process which, in my opinion, is extremely important, because it will allow us to become more independent than a certain, very narrow round of suppliers and start to manage state information in a comprehensive manner. The next area to be highlighted is real estate management. The whole transition to central management would be carried out gradually by 2017 and the time series and dynamics would be determined by the Government. However, it is primarily about the management of real estate which the Government, government services, ministries and bodies in their composition and administrative units and also the indirect budgetary consumers need to carry out their tasks or in connection with them. However, there are some real estates, similar to those of IT, exceptions, and above all the real estate of the military, police and property management that are determined by a special law. The third important area to be highlighted is the area of public procurement where the Government proposes to amend this legislation in order to transfer responsibility for the implementation and regulation of public procurement to the Ministry of Public Administration, where the centralisation of this procurement will ensure a greater degree of harmonisation of public procurement within the public administration and beyond. In the first place, the centralisation of the information technology I have already talked about will also bring a lot of joint public procurement, which will lead to indirect and direct savings. As of today, only around 25% of these procurements are awarded in the field of information and communication technology, for which a total of 450 public procurements are made. We will also introduce modern ways of procurement, especially in the form of electronic orders, reverse auctions. We are planning to order in cooperation with the contractor of the procedure and those who define the subject matter of the contract to actually do so in the joint team. Above all, we want the whole public procurement to focus less on the price area and focus more on the price of a particular subject matter of public procurement throughout the period for which the contract is implemented. Because experience so far shows that only an element of the contract price is often more expensive than it would have been if it had been executed in a different way. These are three key points, the amendments of which are also made by the Law on State Administration. All three are moving in a direction that is also being followed by modern European countries. All three follow some modern trends and at the same time all bring on one hand optimisation, cost control, reduced operating costs and, on the other hand, higher quality of the performance of these functions to which they relate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u3	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Lilliani Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u4	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at its 3rd session. 12. 2014 as a parent working body was considered by the Government's proposal for a new law on amendments and additions to the Law on State Administration, which was submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by means of a proposal for an urgent procedure. The proposal was discussed by the College of the President of the National Assembly at its 10th session. 11. 2014 and decided to be treated in accordance with the urgency procedure. The Committee took note of the following material: Proposal for a Law of 21. 11. 2014 which was published on the website of the National Assembly in the Rapporteur, with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 28. 11. By the opinion of the Commission of the State Council of 1 January 2014, 12. 2014 and the comments of the Health Insurance Office of the Republic of Slovenia of 1. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The amendments were tabled by the SMC, Desus and SD groups on 2 July. 12. 2014 and SDS Group on 2. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Ms Renata Zatler, State Secretary of the Ministry of Public Administration, said in a supplementary explanation of the proposal that the proposed law follows the law on changes and additions to the law on government. In addition to establishing the actual competences of certain ministries, it lays down other content, including a provision aimed at renovating the information systems of the state administration, further introduces a gradual transition to centralised management of the country's immovable property by 1 January 2017, contains a provision aimed at renovating the information systems of the state administration, also brings centralisation in the field of public procurement and transfers from the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of Public Administration. In her presentation, Ms Katarina Kralj, representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, made three important comments. With regard to the proposed provision under which the Ministry of Finance may appoint the four State secretaries, she pointed out that there was a significant deviation from the current system regime, which allows a maximum of two State secretaries in ministries. It also noted that with transitional provisions they amend the provisions of six other laws, which undermines the transparency and consistency of the legal order and is controversial in terms of legal certainty. Regarding the proposed regulation of the centralisation of the treatment of immovable property of the State, she pointed out that it was an important systemic issue in the area of the treatment of immovable property of the State and it was therefore questionable to regulate this issue in the context of the transitional provisions of this law and not in the system law in this area. Regarding the comments made on the individual articles that were given, she also said that the amendments tabled by the coalition groups were largely taken into account. The Commission's opinion on State regulation was presented by Rajko Fajt, President of the Commission, who said that the Commission supports the bill as it assesses that it is necessary for the normal functioning of the government and the ministries. The Committee also took note of the written comments of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance relating to the proposed provision, which introduces for some users charging the use of the central information and communication system of the state administration. In the debate on individual articles, members of a committee of opposition parliamentary groups expressed some concerns and objections to the proposed solutions that the proposal of the law not only meant compliance with the amendment of the government law, but also brought some other major changes that the SPS considered controversial. They expressed their disagreement that the law would have no financial implications, as the increase in the number of ministries they considered also entailed budgetary burdens. The financial implications are also linked to the introduction of centralisation in the area of property management and the management of information and communication systems. They also considered that the government's assessments of savings by rationalisation were not realistic. The Committee adopted the amendments of the SMC, Desus and SD groups to Articles 7, 11, 12, 15, 16, 17, 19 and 20 but did not adopt the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, they are taken into account in the draft law and form an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Party Mir Cerar, Mrs Janja Slug to her.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u6	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! To the adoption of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on State Administration, Members of the Party Mir Cerar, the Democratic Party of Pensioners and Social Democrats committed themselves to the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which entered into force on 6 September this year and set a three-month deadline for the adoption of this Act. Just as any government has so far wanted to organise the powers of ministries and their bodies to act in accordance with the stated objectives and commitments, by means of this proposal of the law. This law is thus new to some ministries and their fields of work. Following the adoption of the Act, by 1 January 2015, regulations and acts on internal organisation and systematisation of jobs will be adopted in the newly established ministries and all bodies in which there has been a transfer of work areas. These acts are also ready for adoption. The challenges of the time we live in and the circumstances in which we have been chosen to lead this country require our ability, expertise, hard work, engagement and efficient exploitation of human resources. We all know that we have an extremely difficult period ahead of us. In the area of budget and public accounting, the Ministry of Finance is currently actively involved in drafting a proposal for a fiscal rule law. They are awaiting reform of the system's public finances legislation; medium-term sustainability of the country's budget is needed without debt and transition to the programme budget system. With a view to removing administrative barriers to taxes, excise duties and customs and other public revenues, it is necessary to recast the tax procedure, to re-implement the enforcement of tax laws, to meet the requirements for the decommissioning of work and to implement the so-called Green Tax Reform. Furthermore, the Ministry of Finance will set up a working group for the restructuring and coordination of the work of various institutions, such as the Bank of Slovenia and the DUTB, with within the Government. In the area of treasury and the financial system at the Ministry of Finance, accelerated work is being done to address successful issues and important tasks in the integration and integration of supervisors in the area of the financial system. In order to implement the sustainable guidelines of the Government for finding a way out of the financial crisis and rationalising the functioning of the public administration bodies, the draft law regulates the establishment of a single central information and communication system within the Ministry of Public Administration, which means the establishment of a single financial plan, the centralisation of the procurement of services and equipment, the centralisation of staff and the consolidation of infrastructure. All of this is aimed at reducing costs, eliminating the fragmentation of the financial resources of state IT funding by authorities, the possibility of introducing modern technological solutions, independence from external providers, the possibility of moving to a more modern business model, eliminating systems incompatibility, reducing coordination and connectivity costs, eliminating duplication of systems, simplifying service delivery standards, reducing the costs of public procurement for equipment and services and so on. The estimated savings amount to EUR 20 million at annual level and can be achieved over a period of three years, with the first major impact in 2016. The proposal for a law also regulates the transition to centralised state property management under the responsibility of the Ministry of Public Administration. This will create a clear responsibility for the implementation of the tasks related to the management of immovable property, while the procedures for the management of immovable property will be transparent and transparent. The bill also establishes general public procurement and transfers it to the Ministry of Public Administration. In 2013, 3.9 billion public contracts were awarded, of which 1.5 billion were co-financed by European funds. The government estimates that the centralised procurement in 2015 will yield 20,5 million savings only on the basis of overall procurement management and standardisation. On the basis of everything mentioned in the SMC Group, we believe that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on State Administration is good and we will vote in favour of its approval today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u7	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u8	Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Yesterday we were citizens and, above all, craftsmen and economists were given new financial and administrative burdens, and we are now facing a law that brings burdens to the Government and, above all, to the Minister of Finance. The Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia entered into force on 6 September this year, and the Law on State Administration, which is ahead of us, will see the light exactly three months later, although it is only supposed to be formal regulation or harmonisation. And for all of this, the government took exactly three months. Now, let us believe that the Government will comply with its own legal restrictions up to 1. 1. In 2015, it adopted the necessary sub-legislative rules and adopted and harmonised acts on internal organisation and systematisation of jobs in the newly established bodies and ministries. In short, we have waited three months with this law, but now we expect all the authorities, namely ministries, to be in time, and if we know that Christmas-new holidays are still in the mix, they will adopt, within 20 days, sub-laws, on the basis of these other specific acts, and with 1. 1. 2015 is expected to be a new ministry with all its people in all its fighting readiness. We will not support this law in the SDS Group of Members, because we simply do not believe in it. We do not believe that the government will not be fully operational in the next 20 days after 100 days. We do not believe that this law will make it possible to improve the operationalization and performance of tasks and that the law will have positive consequences for the economy, as described in the explanatory statement, without evidence and without analysis. We do not, however, believe in the SDS that the law will have no negative financial consequences, as stated. First lie. In the government law, you made the previous 12 plus 1 ministries 14 plus 1 plus 2 as a supply of ministries. These two ministers will be able to assist the Prime Minister according to specific tasks. In short, instead of 13 all of a sudden 17 ministries. Another lie. Since the Minister of Finance with the two State Secretaries, in the opinion of the Government, will not be able to do all the work, you want a circuit and four State secretaries, and you say that this will be without financial implications for the state budget and other public funds. I ask you: will the Secretary of State work for free, without computers, without secretaries, without coffee, without meetings, without ficus? Two secretaries of state, each with a salary of close to EUR 5,000 times 12 months, is €120,000 a year – without computers, without secretaries, without coffee, without trips and without ficussions. Not to mention that you'll probably find them difficult, given that you've been looking for the Minister of Economy for 100 days. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service here is clear: "We caution that this is a significant deviation from the current system regime, which would require reconsideration and a more comprehensive explanation of the safe and reasonable reasons for such a derogation." But this government and this government coalition are bubbling up to the opinion of the House Legal Service in this mandate. In addition, you want to bring three more completely irrelevant matters into this law quickly under the pretext of urgency to begin the operation of the Government. You have also addressed the centralisation of public procurement, the centralised management of immovable property and the central information system of the state administration, which you believe will cost nothing. According to the SDS, these structural matters are by no means part of this emergency law. In our view, there is a great deal, a great deal of inequities in the back. Why do you put pressure on your nose on this law of affairs with which you commit yourself to be fulfilled by 1. 1. 2018? To hide the inconsistencies about the central information system of the state administration? Is that why you're in a hurry? Because maybe the lobbyists are already at the door? Or it's all settled and you're going to sell how you saved, and in fact, some people are going to make a good profit at the expense of the country, because they're real because they're yours and, of course, you're going to let them. [[sign for the end of the debate]] be centralised management of immovable property, with ten specificities, without analysis, only with Flossules, how it will become more transparent and cheaper. [[…]] It'll be a figo, only the real ones will make money. In short, while you take the citizens, the congregations, the crafts and the economy, you are making yourself rich. By every law you prove to a citizen that this government works only for yourself and for its supporters, and you don't care about the state and the citizens. With each law you break your own pre-election promises: ethics, morality, a just and rational state. What would you do with that? Sweet pre-election promises are becoming a cruelly permissive stretch.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u9	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which the Mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. It's a nice greeting for everyone! The proposal for a new Law on State Administration legalises the reorganisational changes to the state administration already provided for in the Government Act. According to the local authorities, they're changing. The Government Act, which entered into force in early September, changed the structure of the Government, meaning that it had redefined certain ministries and their tasks and responsibilities. The aforementioned Government Act provides in the transitional provisions that the Law on State Administration must comply with it no later than 90 days after the oath of ministers. For example, the Ministry of Public Administration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs is transferred to the Ministry of Public Administration, electoral law, administrative business, as well as the prevention of corruption in the public sector, the management of real property, and the area of local self-government. At the same time, public procurement is also transferred from the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology will take over the area of social entrepreneurship from the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, which we very much welcome in Desus, as the role and share of social entrepreneurship in Slovenia must increase and reach the level of other countries in the European Union. The new Ministry of Environment and Space will also take over, inter alia, environmental protection and conservation tasks, including a comprehensive environmental impact assessment, and waste management and land policy. An article of the law governing the management of public administration information systems is also being amended in accordance with the national information technology renovation hubs. Here I would like to emphasise that we must strive for an even more efficient and user-friendly e-government. Last year, the Slovenian eGovernment won the first United Nations Award for Best Information Solution in the category of promotion of comprehensive solutions to public administration in the information age, for which 600 information projects from 97 countries were launched. We need to build on this and upgrade the system. We should unify all operational systems in the state administration; we can save an enormous amount of money in the long run. In the Desus Group, we assess that the amendment of the law is necessary for better operationalisation and better performance of the tasks of the state administration, which means that it is necessary to regulate the working areas of the ministries as soon as possible, so we will unanimously support it. Finally, I have to touch on the provisions that have raised the highest dust in the treatment of the home labour body, namely the increase in the number of State secretaries within the Ministry of Finance from two to four. In the Desus Group, we had great concerns about this, and we also took note of the bill's proponents. As we are aware of the difficulty and scope of the Ministry of Finance's work area, and with the Minister's assurance that two additional secretaries will reduce the number of cabinet jobs, we have decided not to oppose the proposal. At the same time, we must express our Group's expectation that the Ministry of Finance will act as expected from other ministries and the entire state administration, which means that this measure will not increase the mass of wages. We are also encouraged by the fact that this change essentially legalizes the situation that has taken place in all past governments, namely that the Ministry of Finance has practically always had, in addition to the legally permitted two other third state secretaries, who are officially employed in the cabinet of the Prime Minister – including the government led by the SDS, which has been most opposed to this provision. As I have already said, in the Desus Group we will unitedly support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u11	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u12	Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Like every government so far, this legitimate right to operate and structure at ministries in its own way, to ensure better operationality and more efficient performance of tasks, and not least to achieve the greatest possible impact. That's what this government did. With the sincere intention of working successfully and effectively for the benefit of citizens and citizens, with the envisaged rationalisation of the organisation of work, we expect that the use of funds for its operation will be reduced. Today's Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration also follows that. Most of the changes concern the competences of individual departments, as well as the tasks of two new ministries, namely the Ministry of Public Administration and the Ministry of Environment and Space. At the same time, it is not possible to overlook the fact that public procurement is being transferred to the newly established Ministry of Public Administration. The Ministry of Education and Science and Sport has a clear record of the field of youth. Changes in central information technology, real estate management and, as I mentioned, public procurement are also envisaged. The centralisation of state information will provide better information support to all authorities and will be sufficiently transparent at the same time. Processes will be optimized in the way common procurement is implemented, resulting in lower costs, establishing healthy competition, limiting the monopoly on information technology, improving the management of corruption risks, improving the quality of services and reducing management costs. Modernisation of the central computer system of the data centre, renovation of the HKOM network, cheaper and administratively less burdensome services for citizens and citizens and business operators. The advantages brought by the novels also relate to the centralisation of immovable property. The regulation of property records and the sale of one-stop shops will allow for the faster sale of unnecessary assets and thus allow for inflows under this heading. However, we are aware that these effects will be visible over the longer term. A change in public procurement is particularly important, which will ensure centralisation and thus increase the degree of uniformity of public procurement within and within the country. Public contracts are currently being issued in the public administration, which are fragmented. The unification of most contracts will bring indirect savings both in the use of human resources and in the higher implementation of electronic public procurement. In addition, it will be possible to simplify the general public procurement in healthcare, where we are constantly hearing that money is being diverted from the healthcare system. With the adoption of these amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration, we are already almost late, as there is still a need to adopt sub-legislative rules on the basis of which to adopt and harmonise acts within the internal organisation and the systemisation of jobs in the newly established bodies, in which there will be a transfer of work. For all of this, the Social Democrats will also support the proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u13	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for her by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! We certainly cannot challenge the idea of the new government as to how it will work. The Novela of the Law on State Administration is, of course, a simple consequence of the change in the law on government and some very technical solution. This, of course, would be true if the government did not add something to this, which does not actually belong in here. There are some provisions in the novel that would hardly be said to be part of this legal framework. There is also a questionable choice of procedure, there is a sense of urgency, just in the light of the fact that these provisions are in here. There are two amendments, in addition to the increase in the number of secretaries in that article. I wonder why. Perhaps they will continue to sell state property more effectively at the Ministry and most likely also implement the fiscal rule more effectively. But two changes are more important, the first is the management of the information and communication systems of the state administration and the second is the management of the immovable property of the state. The minister has devoted much time to these areas at his hearing. He then said, quote from the magnetogram: "The problem of information technology is essentially the problem of clientism, credibility, lobbying some interest groups that appear not only in informational but in all other areas." And that he has met with them many times in the past. I hope that the amendments to the Law on State Administration are not the result of these and such meetings, even though he said that the centralisation of information technology actually increases the risk of corruption. In view of this, we would expect this problem to be resolved more systematically, more thoughtfully, rather than with one article in a law that is adopted by emergency procedure. The same position was presented by the Minister to the real estate of the State. At the time of the hearing, he announced that he could see a solution in the central record — not even questionable or beyond question — in comparability and transparency, and it seems to us that this would also require a comprehensive solution in the Law on Real Property of the State and Self-Governmental Communities, but not in one article in the Law on State Administration, which of course does not guarantee this comparability and transparency. Thus, we do not have transparency in the legislation and we do not have transparency in the management itself. In the end, the Legislative and Legal Service also pointed out that such regulation was inappropriate, as it was an important systemic issue in the area of the treatment of immovable property of the State. We therefore do not oppose the law or part of the law relating to the adjustments necessary for the normal functioning of the Government, which itself determines, in what composition, how many ministers and areas it will work with, but we do not have to agree with the succinct arrogance which, in the context of the emergency process, attempts to bring through the back door also some handball solutions that need to be regulated systematically and comprehensively, and on the basis of a thorough consideration, in particular in areas where a lot of funding is available and the potential for corruption is even higher. The proposal must also be accompanied by amendments proposing the deletion of the provisions at issue. The deletion of information technology provisions is proposed by colleagues in the SDS and in the United Left we propose deleting Article 19 concerning the treatment of immovable property of the State. Both areas should be regulated systematically and on the basis of reasoned decisions, including solutions to ensure the necessary transparency. Thus, we cannot support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration in such a form if amendments to the provisions in question are adopted and the law becomes a fully acceptable technical solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u15	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr Jernej Vrtovec, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u16	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! With today's draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration, we are coordinating the organisation of the state administration with the already adopted amendment to the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, work areas are allocated to individual ministries or are transferred from one ministry to another in accordance with the organisation of work as set out by the current government. All of this is understandable to some extent, for each government has its own organization of work, according to its own plans. So it's kind of a constant practice for the government to first deal with itself. However, we believe that it is too long for the current government to deal with its own organisation. Last but not least, we adopted a new bill on the government, which established a new organisation of the work of the Government and the ministries, three months ago. We would expect the Government to submit the amendment of the Law on State Administration to Parliament in the procedure substantially earlier, at least two months ago. In order to implement it, it is necessary to adopt further sub-legislative acts, new acts on systematisation by ministries and to deploy public servants in accordance with the systematisations adopted. The government will now have very little time — we know that there are still holidays — for these tasks must be completed by 1. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The draft law under consideration states that the law will have no financial implications for the state budget. Of course, this information does not hold. The organisational changes certainly entail a huge amount of administrative work and also costs, from the replacement of writing tables, stamps, transfers of assets, the relocation of public servants from one ministry to another ministry. Therefore, the financial implications for the state budget will certainly be assessed and should be assessed in the draft law, indicating the budget lines on which such funds are provided. Unfortunately, this has not been defined in your bill. With regard to the content itself, we draw attention to the innovation that is being introduced, namely that the Ministry of Finance has as many as four State secretaries instead of the two so far. Let me take a look at the past. Already in the scholastic, they knew that the ruler must strive to eliminate unnecessary costs and to impose moderate taxes. And let me remember yesterday. What did we do yesterday? We've accepted new taxes, and today we're extending the court. I don't know if they've been in shock before us as much as we are now, but what we're doing is a mistake. Let me also mention our president, the finance minister, Dr. Andre Bajuk. He had two secretaries of state, and he ran the finance ministry brilliantly, and the results were also brilliant. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly pointed out that in this case there is a significant shift from the system-wide regulation of the number of State secretaries. Therefore, we do not believe that such a shift from a systemic solution is necessary, since each minister in his own ministry has the appropriate professional skills to provide the minister with the necessary professional support for his work. In addition, expanding the number of jobs in any area is a poor example for citizens who are constantly listening to government statements that saving in all areas is necessary to get out of the crisis. So it is the government that should show that it is saving, not with words, but with its example. So, New Slovenia – Christian Democrats are also critical to solutions that will require local communities, as well as some other budgetary users, such as agencies and institutions, to pay for the use of the central information and communication system, while the price of these services is not known or the criteria for determining the price are not defined. This solution means transferring financial liabilities from one pocket to another and, in our view, is pointless and unnecessary. This means only additional administrative work and the burden on budgetary users, and the financial recovery from this will in fact not have the state budget. Because of all the above-mentioned Members of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, we will not support the proposal of the Law on State Administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u17	The text is given by the Alliance of Allies of Alenka Bratušek, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u18	One nice greeting to the Minister, whom at least we see among us today, when we are considering a fundamental law that will regulate how the Government will be able to do the whole mandate, as far as it is available. At the hearing of the Minister, I announced that I would be able to assess and see at his steps how serious he was in the field of computer science, and at the time of the proposed law, he said that he thought as his predecessors thought. Unfortunately, the country’s interesting IT lobby is too strong to have the courage or courage of this government to make a difference. Unfortunately, there's no other way, I guess. We'll wait for another government to have this courage. The fact is that we are disappointed in the Alliance because this law shows that the Government has decided to organise public procurement in the way it was before 2002. What's more important is that when the changes were made, when it changed and it was transferred to the Ministry of Finance, we all wondered what this would bring us. We're not, but we all know there's something else to be done. Here, too, I will wait for the Minister to decide whether he will finally decide and take this step, which no finance minister had the courage to do before, and this is that, for the first time, the most reformed law in the country, the Public Procurement Act, will change – not to make a simple novel, but to make a completely new law, shorten it, cleanse it of all ballast, all the impossible guards who are barging and blocking both the economy and the country for obtaining European funds. If at least this progress is made, we will be pleased in the Alliance. There's real estate here, too. With these properties in the country, we translate and see what we can do. The last two governments should have set up a fund, but they did not, because they knew that the state would never be able to manage these properties as well as those who are qualified to do so, and not least that the state would have a common strategy of what to do with these properties. Something like today is SDH, which has a clear task, but it is true that it does not yet have a strategy, which is also awaiting this government for this action. In the end, I will only touch the Secretary of State. State secretaries – in the final stage, we don't care what the Government does if it wants to have two, four, because of me, ten secretaries of state. This is not so important; it is more what it has given these secretaries. This is more important. In fact, before that, we tried to regulate the law, which was in 2002, that we turned the state secretaries into political secretaries, and it was clear that you no longer need two. Comparably in other countries, they did so in a different way, by giving the so-called Undersecretaries, who covered the profession and the Secretary of State could at any time replace them because of their political function. Now, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance or the Minister of Finance, of course, the idea is born very quickly to others – you know, when one starts, everyone starts – and that is to have more secretaries. So we're changing logic back to 2002 to get the state secretaries back. In our country, however, I fear that professional functions are always having a political breakdown. Of course, we will not support the State Administration Act. This is a law that is an upgrade to the government law, and it is right to support it yourself and wish you good luck. But I hope we don't find that this was the wrong step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u19	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. Since the amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 11, 12 and 20 are substantively linked, I shall put Articles 11, 12 and 20 into the debate and the amendments of the SDS Group of Members to this Article. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are against the fact that the political establishment at the Ministry of Finance is expanding. The proposal is to increase the number of State secretaries from two State secretaries to four. Up to recently there were five Directorates and two State Secretaries at the Ministry of Finance. Today, we will have four State Secretaries for five Directorates, unless they have done one more Directorate in between, this is the Directorate for the Financial System. The nature of the work of the Ministry of Finance, which I know, suggests that it is entirely sufficient for the Minister of State to have two secretaries to manage the Ministry of Finance to have directors of the Directorates. The Ministry of Finance has not been given any new tasks so that four State Secretaries will have them. In fact, each State Secretary will actually cover one Directorate. The Directorate of Public Accounting shall remain, and it shall not have its secretary of state or be owned by a person, a secretary of state. In fact, this department doesn't even need a secretary of state because it does normal work. As a result, this proposal by the Government is harmful, unnecessary and increases public administration, increasing money for public administration. That is why we discussed the new taxes yesterday. Today, it is likely that the coalition will vote on these new taxes or increase these taxes, and I do not know where this will actually come from. In the past, when Minister Maramor was already Minister, he also had a number of secretaries of state. Whether they were political functions at the time or not, it's not that important. They were secretaries of state, and then he did nothing surprisingly good to justify these many secretaries of state. At that time, he amended tax legislation to tax parking lots and mobile phones, introduced a huge number of additional administrations, introduced additional bureaucracy of the tax system, because he already had his State Secretary's tax system. He also did nothing special in the budget because he had his secretary of state for the budget. Even on property, public contracts. On the other hand, the Ministry of Finance also has part of the tasks related to public procurement, which will now be transferred to the Ministry of Public Administration, and we introduce two other State Secretaries, of course with two secretaries, with two secretaries, in short all that belongs to the Secretary of State. Why? Here's the real question why. Because someone wants to do that, but they want to do it at the expense of taxpayers, at the expense of higher taxes and at the expense of a larger administration. All the international obligations that the Minister of Finance has in Slovenia – that he attends the Committee on Economic Affairs, the General Affairs Committee on Tuesdays, one meeting at ten, the other at twelve to attend the Government's meeting on Thursdays at ten to attend Ecofin and so on – can be covered by two secretaries of state. One of them certainly has time to go to various events, to go to the Chamber of Commerce, to talk to unions and so on, and to work in Directorates where directors of Directorates, directors of Directorates have sector heads, sector heads have department heads and so on. This is how we have at the Ministry of Finance, I think, employees – in the narrower part of the Ministry of Finance without financial administration and so on – 300, 400 people who can currently do so. I am not saying that the work here is the same as that of other ministries and that it is employment – here I am not talking about the comparison with employment and so on, but that is quite enough. Dear Minister, I have not heard any substantive explanation as to why we are increasing the number of officials at the Ministry of Finance. There's no logical explanation. I can tell you that I have served at the Ministry of Finance as Secretary of State and that I know the technology of government work. And I assure you that is enough if the Minister of Finance is organisational enough to run two secretaries of state. He doesn't need four. There are so many content directorates. That is why we are firmly against it because it has such and different consequences. And not only that, the secretaries of state must come with decisions and the directors of the Directorates must be coordinated in a professional manner, and then they also bear political responsibility, connotation and so on. I don't know where this government's gonna go if you do that. More secretaries of state, more administration, more public sector employment and so on, on the other hand, Minister, you do not have a signed social agreement because they are your partners, these are employers' representatives, they have cancelled because they can no longer finance all these secretaries of state, because they will soon not be able to finance even ministers because they will run out of money. It has actually run out, but it is likely that this debt, which the government has been carrying out for one billion and a little while, will also deteriorate. You can't pay your wages by hiring loans abroad. See, if loans are leased from abroad, they should be leased for investments that will yield more return than the interest rate at which these loans are repaid. If you put that in your paycheck, it's sung, wasted. You get some value added tax, but then the matter ends. You can't do business like that. The whole government can't do business like that. For this reason, we propose that the Ministry of Finance retain two State secretaries. We believe that this is entirely enough for the Government to act effectively so that the Minister of Finance can act effectively to cover all the work he has with these State secretaries, and this is absolutely unnecessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u21	Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u22	Thank you, President, once again for your word. Indeed, when we expected that it was just a formality or that the Law on State Administration would be aligned with the Government Act, a law came before us following an urgent procedure and there, in addition to those harmonisations which, due to the new ministries, are introduced by four State Secretaries at the Ministry of Finance and three very substantive structures – public procurement, immovable property and centralisation of the information and communication system in the state administration. Three very substantive matters under urgent procedure, but these are matters that need to be resolved by 1. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Here we are in a great hurry, and on the other hand we are all waiting for this rebalancing for 2015, it is awaited by the municipalities, it is awaited by state authorities, local authorities. We're all waiting. The government's not in a hurry. But for such important content as the centralisation of the information system, which should be up to 1. 1. 2018 done and in a hurry. I don't understand this policy of yours. I'm sorry, but I don't understand. Where you are supposed to be in a hurry, you are waiting, where you are not in a hurry, and under the influence of urgency, you are solving things by 2018. And what's most controversial is no analysis. Today, the minister said nothing, the secretary of state who was on the working body, nothing, just those flossules, the cheaper things, the more transparent it will be, the more transparent it will be. No analysis, you wrote the law yourself. If you believed what you were saying, you would even write in the law will have positive financial effects. Then, fortunately, we heard from one of the coalition members that 20 million were to be saved. But where is the analysis on at least two A4 sheets? So, Minister, I hope you say that today. We propose that this matter regarding the centralisation of the information system in the state administration be withdrawn from this formal State Administration Act and that we may take time in the first half of 2015 to adopt a good law with substantive analysis and financial analysis, and then you still have enough time to 1. 1. 2018 to arrange all of this in the context of the Ministry of Field Affairs or all other ministries. I have a feeling that you will be taking your time or, as I said earlier in the position of the Group of Members, the various lobbyists are already knocking on the door, and then I will read one of the many letters that we have received in these days to the Group of Members. First, something else about articles 11, 12 and 20, which we propose to delete. In short, up to one. 1. 2018, this is a transitional provision – we think that this provision is totally inappropriate for this law. Consider, for example, Article 12. It talks about the management of the information and communication system of the state administration. It says: The provision of the preceding paragraph does not apply to information and communication systems aimed at defence, protection against natural and other disasters, police, intelligence and security activities, external matters, preventing and detecting money laundering and terrorist financing and carrying out payment operations for budgetary users. In short, some kind of central system, and I think I've counted eight specifics. And you'll probably be up to 1. 1. 2018 found that at least three or four different information systems are needed for different services within the state administration. In short, centralization with a lot of specialties. Come in. Developments in the management of public administration information and communication systems and the management of their budgetary resources are directed by the Government's IT development council. Yoo-hoo! Another world! Someone's gonna say Ah again, 'cause nobody's gonna get paid, they're gonna do a little work between 3:00 and 4:00, and they're gonna meet twice a month. But it seems to me that it goes more in the sense that the nation is to be spared, only that government officials are to entertain themselves after work and regulate everything that is not in their power at all. Next. The Government shall set data and technology standards, guidelines for common information solutions and common security policy. Lobby space is open. If the doors are not already opened by this Article, the Government shall set data, technology standards and guidelines. I will give a concrete example that we have received from the Group of Members. You know, a hundred officials who work at the Ministry between 9:00 and 3:00 p.m., then either they have an espa or they have a family friend or I don't know who a company could advise the Ministry, what's most decent, what's the most meaningful, what's the least cost, but they'll get the right pay. Moreover, it says here: The costs of using the central system for state authorities are covered by the state budget. And you write the law has no financial implications. The law also had negative financial implications for everyone else, as you wrote to the public agencies, local authorities, public authorities and other users of the service pay according to the price set by the Minister responsible for the administration. A fully open field that will be resolved under the influence of urgency up to 1. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Allow me one letter, which is one of the shorter ones, but I think it's even more substantive. We've got quite a few. I apologize to the minister and to anyone else if they don't keep the data, but what we've checked, we should be holding the data. He writes: "Conciliation Minister Boris Koprivnikar and Director of Directorate wish to quietly and incontrovertibly, without discussion, to appropriate the financial resources for the information infrastructure of all ministries by amending the Law on State Administration in Article 74a." So this is this article that we want to delete. "This is about the headless spending of taxpayers' money and European funds, about 14 million which must be spent by summer 2015, for the purchase of state and public cloud equipment, in other words the purchase of iron, without pre-arranged and adopted strategies or the needs of other ministries, the information development of state and public administrations, as it is only the creation of a Council for the Development of Information Technology – Article 74a third paragraph. In addition, it should be noted that the Minister is talking about rationalisation and the reduction of IT resources without any calculations and analyses carried out. Unfortunately, he still blindly trusts the director of the Directorate, who is under the influence of certain individuals of entrepreneurs." I've talked about this before, and probably this entrepreneur isn't the first and only lobbyist standing outside the door. "One of the biggest is the CEO of the company..." – I will not mention it, but it will probably be recognized – "... which has started to negotiate for the business of the pilot project Government connection with the director of the Directorate of Defence since 2008 and, of course, also received it. This year he also received a business on the tax administration and is now preparing for the rest of the ministry through the Ministry of Public Administration. It is an application of the Government connect that works in the cloud, but does not reach 25% of the functionality of the current application Lotus Notes SPIS 4 or SPIS 1.45, but it does not matter, since it is necessary to replace Lotus Notes platform with Microsoft platform in any way, regardless of the purpose, rationality and price. So, the director of the Directorate will bring Microsoft Exchange and the company here, regardless of the cost we will pay. In parallel, maintenance of the current platform and applications will also have to be paid for at least two more years. We're wondering where this rationalization is and the savings of the money we're talking about. To conclude, however, a significant difference in the cost of paying for the Government connection application, which will not be from the country, but will be paid for the use of so-called license, which can therefore mean that if we stop paying, we can no longer use that application. We hope that everyone understands what this means for the state and public administration. But the current app was paid and it's from the state. In the hope that something will change, some signed." In short, it is imperative to do something by 1. 1. 2018 in this area where we think someone is standing at the door, but we have a lot of other problems that we need to solve by 31. 12. 2014, and we're all waiting for a budget rebalancing. There's a lot of laws. There's a lot of conclusions from the parent labour that have a date for individual matters within the government and ministries to be made by 31. 12. 2014, there's nothing there. However, such an important topic as the central information system of the state administration should be adopted on the nose, with as little Rompomoma in the National Assembly as possible, so that the door can then be opened even further to such or other lobbyist lobby. We oppose this, so we also propose these amendments to delete these articles on these matters this time. I say, but we are not against the opening of this topic in the next reading of the legislation, because we agree that something must be done in this area too, but not on the door or on the nose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u23	Mr Boris Koprivnikar has the floor of the Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u24	Thank you, Chairman. In view of what has been said in the explanations of votes, I think it is right to clarify certain matters, even in the field of information technology, where certain charges have been quite straightforward. Firstly, the Law on State Administration does not regulate the content of these areas, which we are talking about and are exposed to, but rather lays down the powers of the Ministry in charge of regulating this area. Therefore, the main debate going on in the regulation of individual substantive areas will follow later when we decide in individual system laws and with purely concrete projects what solutions we will actually use. The Law on State Administration provides for jurisdiction. It will only take some time to harmonise this law and these powers. That is why we have proposed the law to Parliament by the deadline foreseen. At the same time, I can respond with a response to the fact that these sub-laws are practically ready because they were the key to dividing areas and defining responsibilities. Perhaps just a brief comment on the costs that these changes would entail to the state budget. The draft is well known, the increase in costs is not foreseen, and also from the point of view of the State secretaries, who have had a lot of talks from the point of view of the Ministry of Finance, it can be easily explained that this reduces the number of State secretaries in the cabinet of the President of the Government who have already worked as a rule in the financial field and increases the number of State secretaries in the Ministry of Finance, so that there are virtually no changes in the number of employees. Nor is this reflected in the human resources plans, and this does not mean seeking new people, but rather the responsibilities of those who actually carry out these tasks. With regard to procurement, only one brief explanation can be given. Public procurement is already a separate Directorate, or under the Ministry of Finance. We have estimated that it will work more effectively if it is also transferred to the Ministry of Public Administration as horizontal, because it is also linked to information technology, real property, construction. It'll make it easier for us to function. However, the content changes to be made in public procurement in the future relate to exactly what has already been pointed out to be a more transparent, transparent public procurement, which is now extremely fragmented. Many of our public contracts are virtually gone, as we call it, under the radar, because they are not delivered through open procedures, but through smaller fragmented procedures. I also agree, of course, that it is important to improve public procurement legislation – here the plans are already very concrete – and in particular to introduce new systems that constitute electronic public procurement. We already have good experience and test projects with reverse auctions that are ready and can begin to take place practically at the beginning of next year. Also another procurement principle recommended by European organisations in this area, namely that the contract be valued at the price of the entire duration of the specified contract, not at the time of the award of the contract. As far as real estate is concerned, real property management can only be explained that it is also a matter of determining jurisdiction, but of course legislation on the regulation of real property is a law that needs to be adapted further. However, it is essential that the review of these properties be centralised, subject to those exceptions which are also legitimately mentioned in the law, and this is because the government would not intervene in certain areas specifically linked to security, as well as on information systems. Maybe just for the real estate area. The very precise analyses that we have already prepared and will be the subject of further discussion in the future when we discuss the substantive solutions of these areas – now we are talking about the allocation of who is competent – show that we have, say, only one interesting information, in the rental and management of property of state authorities and authorities in the composition of an extremely large difference in the price of rent per job comparable to that of 200 to 200 EUR per job. This shows that the great fragmentation of this management does not necessarily mean that all those who manage this property operate rationally. The differences are huge. A review of this situation has already shown that the differences are enormous, that there are also very large savings options here, and in certain parts of real estate management, data even indicates a lack or intentional increase in costs that has not now been controlled. However, we expect that centralisation will make this control significantly better. If you allow me to have a few more responses to the last area of information technology, where we also conclude from these debates here today on one contradictory fact. We all somehow agree that something needs to be changed in the field of information technology, and when we propose changes, we all strongly oppose them. The fact is, in the field of information technology, there has been a lot of irrationality, a lot of bad organisational approaches, so that in recent years the area of information technology can be gradually broken down into partial information systems that are being closed down into closed bodies in the structure, even individual organisations, to build simultaneously for the same purpose software, machine and data solutions that are incompatible with each other, that the same information companies in the same country sell the same solution several times, sometimes even at a different price – a whole variety of these inconsistencies. And when you point to lobbyist contacts, I have to agree fully with you here. I'm familiar with this letter you've read. Moreover, we have even responded publicly because we have received it from the media and have explained all these accusations in detail. But I also see that with transparency, the centralisation of information technology has swept into a nest that has sparked a very, very large amount of controversy. Personally, from the first day I have explained my scope of action, and I will consistently continue to do so in the future, seeking the consolidation of information resources, for transparency, and practically from the first day on, I also face various pressures that oppose it. Today we have a situation in the field of computer science that we have a lot of, if you like, kindergartens that are relatively effectively controlled by individual companies and lobbies. Bringing these kindergartens together would reduce the impact. Above all, it is important to bring together the informatics and also the articles you have mentioned – the establishment of a standard, a world for information technology, which is a strategic consultative body representing all the departments that are users of this information technology. These transparent methods and precisely these transparent approaches to solving information technology will allow standards to be modern, open, one where many competing companies can be offered. The current standards we use, however, are often very closed, aimed only at individual companies that control these technologies, and even within the same state-level information technology, these standards are also very different in different bodies. We believe that it is imperative that the information systems finally begin to update to start investing here. We are also building a reference to the state computer cloud based on the 2013 and 2014 analyses. They're very detailed, we're looking at all the numbers of consumption, integration and so on. And of course, we will be able to discuss these analyses when we discuss substantive solutions. Today, however, the Law on State Administration discusses who is responsible for taking on this responsibility. This responsibility is imposed on the Ministry of Public Administration and I, too, take full over as Minister. However, these analyses show that we have a type of irrationality here, an extremely poor use of resources, and above all we are confronted with the question of so-called wendor lockin, so we need to apply the fundamental principle that I always advocate in informatics, namely that the data is separated and considered specifically to deal with machine and communication equipment, so that software solutions can be specifically ordered when needed, and lastly, perhaps most importantly to define security approaches to informatics. Security is not resolved by each authority locking its server in its basement, but by means of transparent, central decision-making and monitoring of who, where and when it has access to what data. This is a modern approach to information technology, but it must be based on open technologies, and in this way our design is also set up. Maybe even with regard to payment, because there have been pretty serious words about how we increase costs. In no way does the payment of public information costs change from what has already been set up today; it remains exactly the same. Moreover, we have made another additional exception, namely that the social work centres at the level of this law are not bound to pay for the information infrastructure, which they are today, even though this obligation, due to financial difficulties, is quite poor. In view of the fact that most of their tasks are performed in a very comparable manner to other tasks that are the subject of the national administration, we also considered it correct not to pay for these information systems or to use them. So short for the first response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u25	Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u26	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear colleagues! After today's presentation of the law and the report, and also after the current full and thorough reply of the Minister, I have no doubt about this law. I will personally support him, and I believe he will also be our entire parliamentary group. However, in this place, I have to somehow circumcise myself with all the obvious, mainly from colleagues of the SDS. Dear colleagues, you've already been to the government. You describe the work or experience at the Ministry of Finance as a job that requires one, at most one secretary, probably not yet, but these experiences of yours have brought us where we are. The situation that you all recognize as critical is probably no longer in line with the time when it was probably working with your left hand. So I fully trust these plans of the Ministry and Government that the situation is so critical that it requires four secretaries. The responsibility for this work will be demonstrated at the end of the term of office. But right now we really can't say there's no work there, that the minister can only visit the boards in a week, he has a government meeting at the end of the week, in short, no work. My information is that the Minister of Finance works about 16 to 18 hours a day, goes home just to sleep, and in this light is more than in place to strengthen himself with the capable personnel he will choose for himself. Today we have also heard some completely unfounded ones, that I do not use any more of the worse expression, the evidence of some lies, that it is lying to citizens, that we do not care about citizens, that we force them and so on. It's a primitive discourse. Last but not least, we are these citizens who were elected to this National Assembly a few months ago, and the policy that we are adopting today in the form of laws is the one that we believe will bring matters out of this abyss. So the observations we're hearing from SDS are completely depressed, populist, while we can actually hear more than the perfect answers and explanations that are the basis for the changes. In the previous debate, we were able to hear that this amendment to the legislation was intended to target some hundreds of officials in ministries with or related to espaes. Even if that were the case, they are probably officials of the previous political sets that ruled Slovenia, so I can't even understand this. As I said before, I'm sure this marriage is more than good. What will be the results, but we can only estimate after, say, one or two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u27	Does Mrs. Procedural have a word? [[...]] Replica, mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Look, Mr. Zorčič. First of all, you're telling the truth. No one said that the Ministry of Finance only needed one secretary of state. We were talking about two secretaries of state. No one worked with his left hand at the Ministry of Finance. That's the first one. This is also reflected in the results on the fiscal situation at the time. And thirdly, if today's situation is as critical as you said, then let the government come here and say the situation in the country is critical that we know what it is. Maybe you know more than we do. Perhaps you know more than we do if it is so critical that the Minister of Finance needs four Secretary of State. Those are your words that the situation is critical. Please call an extraordinary meeting, and the situation is critical if you are doing this critical position.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u29	Mrs. Janja Sluga has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. I'd only say a few things. We've been listening to some eyewitnesses, and we've already heard them through the boards. For every proposal, every change we want to make, you always tell us that it will not help the situation, there will be no positive effects, there will be no change. At the same time, we all agree in the debates that these changes are necessary, but do not let them be made. You know, we came to this National Assembly because we thought we had to start doing something different. And you always tell us that we're new, and you've been here for a long time – yes, I agree, and you've led Slovenia to this situation now, not us. So something has to be changed, and let us change what we think is necessary. I think the Minister's explanation was more than professional, more than justifiable, and I think he should be allowed to do what he thinks is right and what he thinks will be positive effects. On why the law must be adopted by emergency procedure – because the 90-day deadline, which we jointly confirmed when we passed the government law, will expire. And I need him! In my debate, I stressed that the first positive financial effects are expected already in 2016 and not in 2018, as is now apparent. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u31	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u32	I've already explained here that if you want to be a cook and work in the kitchen, where it's hot, you need to know that you also have to carry the heat, because otherwise you can't be a cook and you can't work in the heat. I've never seen a cook who works in an ice-cream kitchen before. So you'll have to get used to it slowly. But what is more important than that is that this argument, which I have now heard in the end, is going through an urgent procedure because otherwise the deadline will expire – I suggest that you do not repeat it again. 90 days was enough time. Usually the government comes out immediately within a month and solves all the problems. So this is not the best answer, but it is certainly another question which is addressed to the Minister. Look, I came out with arguments why state secretaries, either political or professional. I believe that the Minister of Finance wishes to have experts who will do a left-wing share in four different areas. Last but not least, our client colleague is one of those who will come to you as Secretary of State at the MF, but I will say that it would be better to leave him in the President's office, because the President, you know, has this guardian, the President of the Government, I say that he can have very large secretaries, precisely for these reasons. If you look at which state secretaries in all governments, not just in terms of understanding each other, were sitting in the office of the President of the country, we sometimes wondered what those state secretaries were doing in that government, in any government of course. There was a political place like this. But it is true that the Minister said that we would give the Third Secretary of State for this at the Ministry of Finance. Who's the fourth? Then won't there be a fourth or what? Then why do we have four secretaries of state in the marriage? I think he will, and that's very clear because the minister knows what he wants. You still have to cover the budget, don't you? Above all, there is something else: if you want to start doing differently, as you say, you have to argue this, and there is no argument in the Law on State Administration that it will be something different, because everything you say in this law has already been. I told you on the committee very plastic and very precisely that all these changes were already more or less – already seen, practiced and found that it was bad. This is a key problem and it is a key observation on our part to introduce certain steps that are wrong. I'm going quite specifically, for example, to what I want to talk about. You in the law talk about introducing a certain consolidation of computer science in the process, and you want to skip two steps and in three years do everything you suggest. I'm afraid it won't work. You yourself know that those who jump over obstacles and do not go in order and in stages can eventually make the most mistakes. To this day, I have not heard from the minister that he will replace the main mammals in the state administration from the field of IT companies. One and the same, once again, Minister, I repeat, one and the same for 20 years have been sucking up this country, and one and the same are doing in every government a program scheme of what it has to do and what it doesn't. And more than that, it even determines the dynamics of when something will happen. And more than that, I say that even people are one and the same, even with you, the minister who has done this before and done it before and so on. That is why we have come up with an argument why it is very good to go back to the situation of going to government service to reduce the corruption system, because I do not think that ministers will be able to take those steps or to significantly reduce themselves. We will never eradicate corruption. The one who idealizes it is crazy. But we would have cut it off for sure. But as long as it's a daycare dump across individual ministries, we haven't done anything. We have now moved from one ministry to another ministry, but the rest will be the same, and people are the same. Once again, Minister, the last time you were not on the committee, I will now tell you: call Mr Virant, former Minister, and congratulate him for hiring you in the ministry for your entire cabinet or all your employees. What's even worse, he brought you back to life a system he could never carry out on his own, because we all stopped him in time. It was a great idea, just the way he seduced her, but it's bad. But you're going to continue this, and that's why I don't believe in this project. If anyone and if we know anything, it's only right to say it out loud. For this reason, we need not be criticized because we have been alerted to something. Minister, everything you say today, everything you will do today – because the law will be passed because you will have the opportunity to take it away – you will be back as a canon in two years when you have to sit in this same place and explain why everything you say will not happen. I'll wait. Will you do it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u33	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues! What my colleague Jani just said in the last part is true. Apparently, my colleague knows a lot, and I'm going to sign it, so I'm not going to repeat it because I want to be rational about time. Mr. Minister, we actually want to help you. Here in this hall we all have the same goal – I can honestly say. We need an integrated information system, and if we are talking about a country, then we will draw a parallel; the government is parallel to the country. The government is running the country. If we're talking about state e-government, there's a government parallel here again. That is why we think it would be better for the government to take care of this state information system, if I can call it that. The reasons were given by his colleague Jani. If we had actually implemented the eGovernment strategy that our government had adopted in 2006 – then Nova Slovenije was in the government – if we had then developed, upgraded, optimized and so on, we would have contributed 3 billion euros to today. This is hard to calculate, but this is my assessment, given the still multiple effects. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. Now we have a big chance again. We know the Europe 2020 strategy, and one of the seven strong priorities is the Digital Agenda for Europe; Mr Minister knows this well. I also spoke about this at the beginning of this week in Rome at the COSAC conference. But the government representatives on our working bodies have in some way complained to Members that there is no real feeling, an interest that all that the Digital Agenda for Europe offers us would be internalized, implemented. I'll say it again. When Mr Barroso, the previous President of the Commission, presented this Digital Agenda for Europe on his tracks, I made one extrapolation and found that Slovenia needed to implement the Digital Agenda by 2016, this is in the morning, 3,000 ICT engineers. I didn't make that up, and so did the others. And look, the world will be digital. The one who won't be digital won't be. The Council will also be open. You mentioned open-source solutions. We have also written open-source solutions into our strategy, and see, at the end of January 2011, the Ministry of Public Administration issued a document entitled The Study of the Introduction of Open-source Software at Public Administration Work Stations, which sets out an ambitious plan whereby our public administration will switch to open-source work stations by 2015 and so on. Who did this study? If we look at who the authors are, we can say that the product is very serious. I don't have enough time right now to give details on this, but it has been specified that all work stations in the state administration will be installed by the Open Office and Firefox, and this has not happened. And now I, like my colleague Jani, am going to see Minister Virant. February 22, 2014, Virant wants to get rid of court IT suppliers. It's an address that sounds good when you read the contents, and you see it's not like that. And only the last paragraph: Free software was not introduced – under Virant. "Though the Ministry had already considered the introduction of open-source information solutions, a study was also carried out in 2011..." – which I mentioned earlier – "... the introduction of open source software that supported the introduction of such solutions. There are currently no specific plans for the use of open code in public administration, but they try to use free open source solutions, if functionally appropriate, they have been explained at the Ministry." By the end of this year, the contract, the security contract between the Ministry and Microsoft for the purchase of software, also indicates that 660,000 euros were spent under this contract from February 2012 to February 2014 at the Ministry, administrative units and police for the purchase of software. 660,000 Euros! And there could be 0 euros here. And look, there's a lot of reasons why I'm talking about saving 3 billion. Let's take a look in Estonia and their information system of state administration. Do you know how much the census costs in Estonia? You're not gonna believe this. 10,000 euros. Ten thousand euros – Estonians have served with this data – costs them a census. I don't have an estimate, I don't have that information, but we probably don't talk about numbers, numbers that are less than one million. For these reasons, we all went into content together. It is true, as the Minister has said, that we speak of jurisdiction. It seems to us in New Slovenia that it would be better for the information system of the country to be better understood by us, to be a competent government, not a single ministry. That is why we will also support these amendments, in particular the amendment to Article 11, and consequently to Article 12 and 20. I know that the government now has a lot of budgetary debates and problems, negotiations with trade unions and so on, but I would like the government to come before this national assembly and present the exact architecture of the state information system, which, of course, will also be accompanied by a financial plan. Minister, in these 80 days, what you're sitting in the ministerial office, you've already mentioned quite a few irregularities, a few anomalies that mean taking money to taxpayers. Then the government must raise the tax on financial services, insurance business and so on. There are millions of us here, although I believe we have very good software houses in Slovenia, which also work fairly with the country, if I may say so, but as my colleague Jani said, and some dictate when it is necessary to build up or upgrade a solution. But there are solutions that are free, which are free, which are downloaded and free, are free. And why shouldn't we use them in the government, including the Members? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u35	The first word is "magic." Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u36	Thank you, President, for your word. From what I hear, everyone here in this room agrees that changes are needed. Why the emergency? Because it's primarily about regulating jurisdiction. We are really talking about content, and I would also like to tell you from my direct experience why these changes are needed. If we just look at the information technology. Just at the time I was at the Ministry of Public Administration, I was transferred from the Ministry of the Interior, the Center of the Government for Informatics was abolished, and the colleague who was in charge of this area returned from college and said from this ministry that money is throwing through the window for contracts with shovels. So I made a little joke and I said, "Give me the window." She said don't do this because your head's gonna hurt. And when I went back to the local level as chairman, I figured out what this outsourcing really means. We had a single entry point where you called to say something was wrong, that you needed help. The answer to the phone was instantaneous, but you waited a few days for someone to come, drove to the location, took the equipment and took her away. You confirmed his travel order, and the charges were off. Back then, there was equipment as much as you wanted, and you could take it somewhere in the corner, because you also got the equipment you didn't need and you could replace it. Later, when such purchases were no longer possible, you lost your equipment. Not to mention the apps that the minister said before. Contracts with external contractors – each prepared the matter in its own way. These applications were not interconnected, they were not consistent with the content, and when you have 10, 15, 30 employees working exclusively on these records and exclusively on the basis, you see what a bureaucratic barrier this actually means. Many times, repairs were not even possible when you called. Why? Because each correction requires additional financial resources. And the home computer scientists we had suddenly became irrelevant. In fact, they were just taking care of the password records, entering into the security scheme and installing new equipment if it came or not. As far as these lobbying is concerned, I think that this segment of information technology and all those involved has a very similar status to that of doctors or other professional institutes, and our informatics at the very beginning, because it was so highly valued, they chose official jobs and also high wage classes. We may be able to do everything in three years, and I hope and believe that everything that the Minister thinks will be arranged in a way that was regulated at the Information Technology Centre, because this outsourcing that we have done has proved that there are more weaknesses than advantages. However, as regards the management of immovable property and readings, changes are also needed here. I have before me the 2013 report, which we will continue to address on the home labour body, on the management of the real estate of the country. And in its concluding observations, it said that it was a very low reality, and it raises the question of the reasons for such a low reality. These causes are then listed with a very fine print on two, three pages. Finally, it states that there is an urgent need for a different arrangement regarding this immovable property. I also believe that this is absolutely necessary and that the effects will be – we cannot see them today, but I hope and believe, and that, of course, is the responsibility of the Minister to be visible in a year or two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u37	Mr Boris Koprivnikar has the floor of the Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u38	Thank you, President. Thank you Members for their questions and concerns. Allow me to respond briefly to them. Mr. Möderndorfer, you've already told me at the hearing nothing will, nothing will work. Now you're telling me again. Nothing's gonna happen. You're not gonna make it. It is kind of difficult for me to respond to something that will happen in the future and to argue in a reasoned manner about what will happen in the future. Let's see what we've done in these 60 days. As far as computer science is concerned, we reorganise the internal organisation in such a way that the data management service, the hardware and communications management service, the software management service and the security management service will be separated, as this is the basis for us to resist lobbying from which, I agree with all of you, we now have tremendous pressure. The condition for dependence on the external supplier is that someone controls two, three or even all of the listed resources. If you have one program that you can put on any computer, if you have one computer that you can ever replace with another, if you have a single security policy that works on all systems, then you're independent. But if you've got all this locked up in one big black box that's got a supplier standing for, then you're powerless. We are in this situation in some cases today, and we are already making this change. The state computer cloud is the project that started. A project for which European funds have also been heavily engaged and which is the basis for setting up a technology based on open standards. Open standards, however, are a condition for competitiveness. If the country uses open, generally recognised and applied standards, then anyone can offer a concrete solution to these standards. And my answer is why it is so urgent that we first set up an open standard technology that will also allow for competitiveness. And finally, this technology of the computer cloud will radically reduce maintenance costs. We still have most of the state's information technology on the huge, demanding so-called mainframe. It may be interesting for you, as it is announced that we have servers, one central computer for which we pay more than 100,000 euros a month. Of course, I do not agree with this, but we cannot shut down this server, but we can replace it with other equipment. And until we replace it, you can also ask me here for my health because every month we will pay a hundred thousand euros of rent — because we cannot turn it off. And that's what I'm talking about. It is therefore necessary to open these standards and adapt them. The Digital Agenda was mentioned. This is exactly what the digital agenda is talking about – the use of open standards, transparency, interoperability, open data, data availability, exchange, the use of the open code you mentioned. As of today, quite a number of open-source solutions have been used in the state administration, especially on server solutions. These designs of the projects that we are preparing are also largely based on open codes, especially on servers. But open code isn't free. Free is a program. The maintenance of the programmes also costs and is generally even more expensive than the licensee's. For example, Germany also went to open-source solutions throughout the state administration and is now returning to work stations for licensed solutions, and remains on open-source solutions to service systems, where these proved to be very good and very good. Perhaps I could touch myself a little longer when Minister Virant was also my esteemed predecessor, mentioned above, and court suppliers. Look, I've done a series of interviews in recent weeks with practically all the key suppliers, current, potential, software, hardware, systems and other equipment, and I'm going to continue with these interviews. I say this here in public, that no one will think I'm making any logistical contacts. But I want to know what we have in the market, and I want to know how our potential suppliers think, and I don't want to get rid of anyone. However, I want everyone to compete in open-source technologies and open, clear calls. In particular, I would like to see Slovenian companies win the competition in these calls. But I repeat, on open standards and in public. But I don't want to get rid of anyone. This is not an approach to integration and cooperation, which we always strongly advocate. Estonia was mentioned. Estonia shall base its information solution on the data spine on which the so-called databases are affixed, for which it is clearly determined who has the right and the access keys. Slovenia has one great fortune. We have our system very comparable to Estonian because we have HKOM spine and we have only the next step. Why am I thus stressing the data approaches? To determine which databases and how they can be accessed. Now they are jealously guarded by individual organs. If we do this alone, we are very close to the Estonian model. And by the way, on Wednesday, at the EUPAN Ministerial Meeting of European Ministers for Public Administration, I received again information from Estonian colleagues, whom I already know very well – also after basic education of IT – that the Finnish copy the Estonian model and transfer it to Finland. They also know ours very well, so we have quite a few possibilities here to continue. So we advocate an approach of openness, transparency, clarity, central governance. But what I also said at the hearing, centralisation also means risk centralisation. But that doesn't mean we don't control this risk centrally. For example, in the field of information technology, the law also contains the Strategic Information Council, which means that one person, one ministry, cannot decide what the data standard will be in this country, but it must be harmonised between all the departments and experts, and then it can be accepted as an open standard. This is the principle I advocate, and I will continue to work on it. Maybe just for a little while, because I started with what happened. In the real estate area we have a long-term accurate analysis of the costs of property per square metre, to the workplace, which body, how much rents, how many own premises there are with the cost of use and so on. That's the basics. We are preparing a migration plan, which means that we have invited all the authorities to say whether they have surpluses or shortages of space, and on this basis we are also setting up the first beginnings so that we can establish an internal market. Which means that one authority that needs some additional space will not rent it from an external supplier, but will first look within the state administration to see if there is any possibility of organising it differently and more rationally. These are procedures that are already under way. These are procedures that are being implemented so that we can be a little more optimistic about the fact that the plans that we are proposing are not doomed to fail, but are plans that we are actually working very, very intensively every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u39	Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u40	Dear Minister! Look, it's not nice of you to take my word for it. Secondly, I recommend that if we really want to face the arguments that you're telling me today that I didn't give them to you, come on the committee and face it, not send a man who's been doing what I'm telling you for years that it's not good. And when you come to the committee, we will be able to talk in concrete terms, because you know very well that at the plenary session we cannot have a serious discussion on this issue. And secondly, it's not true what you said that I said the same thing as the hearing, because now I'm going to read to you what I said at the hearing, and before you do, read your views, if you've forgotten what you said or what I said. "I'm going to start in computer science. There you turned out to be the greatest acquaintance of this area and you know the matter, but I'm going to tell you now: it's bad, because the computer science is beneath you. Bad. And it's not bad because you've made up your mind or your government coalition. It has been weak since this was taken from the office of the President of the State and transferred to the Ministry of Government." That's what I was talking about, and you're not even discussing it today. Why not government service? But it is true that it is not only the computer science that has been taken away, but also the complete recruitment has been taken from this government service and so on. I've listed five reasons, and all you have to do is come to the board, listen to it, face it, argue it, and then argue it, so I don't want to be able to argue with you without argument. But I told you I'd be your biggest fan if you could change that. You don't say that today. And I said I was waiting for your arguments and steps. When you introduced yourself, you didn't have a cabinet or any marriage filed. Only after your confirmation did I start to monitor what was really going on. And that's when I told you the following. When I see which people you've put in the cabinet for Secretary of State, I'll know what your decision is and what you really think you're gonna do, honestly, change. I can see that today; you hired Virant's people who think exactly the same and say nothing new. I believe you have a sincere desire to change, but what I've warned you about at the hearing is that you can't do it on your own, not the way you put it. And I still hope, now I'm telling you publicly that I'm fucking wrong. That's all I can tell you. Good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u41	Mr Boris Koprivnikar has the floor of the Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u42	Thanks for the heads-up. Maybe just to respond to these two things, why not the government service and why the Ministry. I don't have a final point of view. What is the difference if, for the central management of state information, the Directorate of State Information is at the Ministry or is a government service, if the key decisions in state information are actually taken by the Strategic Information Council, which is absolutely inter-ministerial. But I allow different solutions. But hypothetically, if a team dealing with state information technology were a government service or part of one ministry, that probably doesn't mean that it's going to be a new team, because we just don't have a hundred new people to put and re-employ somewhere else, and we'd take over the matter. But I allow this dilemma, what's better and what's not. Maybe that response, as far as the frame is concerned. It may sound a little modest, but still. Personnel working at the Ministry are personnel preparing professional bases but not making final decisions. I will have to make final decisions on my own, as regards what will happen to the Strategic Development Council, and the final decisions on key information standards will be taken by the Strategic Development Council. And by the way, the only employee who is my only secretary of state is not involved in information technology; we have special people for that. Once again, I apologize to all honourable Members. I was at a ministerial meeting, or I would be very happy to come to the committee and explain this matter. So my absence from the committees concerning our areas of work will not happen unless there is an extremely important reason. But I'm sorry I couldn't be there.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u43	Anybody else want to discuss this point? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Margareta Guček Zakošek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u44	Thank you, Chairman. I listened with interest to this debate; I am not a member of that committee. I'd say the next thing. In fact, I have been challenged by some words, I admit, by my colleagues from the SDS, that in fact, some at the expense of the State will again earn richly that they will care about better governance, will earn yours that this government works only for itself and for its supporters. I'm sorry I had to repeat those words, but I just have to if I'm going to get involved in the debate. From the very communication behaviors I have, I can say that you know the man and the way he thinks and the world he lives in, right through his words. Because he just doesn't know another world. Each opponent sets his defense on the basis of what he himself knows about the world, the way it works. And, dear colleagues, if that's what you've been thinking about your work, I'm sorry. We do not think that way, so please do not put your thoughts in this hot room or in our minds. But we are aware that it is hot and that is why we will defend ourselves. With regard to the four secretaries of state, I would like to mention the fact that there is a valid argument which I think you have been given. There are currently 76 allowed cabinet members, with 49 seats occupied. So it's not about the additional secretary of state, it's about the five seats in the cabinet, which are not going to be, I agree, with the advisers, but with the secretaries of state. So it's not the difference of 100,000 euros, but it's significantly less. It's the difference in pay. But this is one significant difference, and this is the difference in the responsibility of the Secretary of State or anyone else in the cabinet. Since the Minister is in the current work – whether we are talking about a critical situation or not – we know that it is very important for the country – cannot be torn apart. One Secretary of State is in Parliament all the time, or a Minister, one in Brussels. I know Dr. Marble, and I know how thrifty he is. I believe he's thought this through, and that's why I trust him. I just want to conclude that this is definitely not about expanding the number of jobs and that it is definitely not about raising costs if we synthesize all these statements. But I would like to read something from the magnetogram, which is years ago. Mr Möderndorfer asked the then President of the Government Janez Janša about the recruitment. And Mr Janez Janša replied: "Every government has its own agenda and this programme is trying to do its best. In order for the programme to be implemented, the government carries out a number of functions. One of these is human resources. All governments will carry out this function and will carry out it in the future, because it is part of their responsibilities." So it seems that we agree in this statement, and thank you, my fellow Members, for essentially helping us resolve this issue. I would like to read the last three sentences: "As far as we are concerned, there are good three months behind us," says Mr Janez Janša. "At that time our government carried out 312 appointments and 150 discharges, and in the previous term the previous government carried out 730 appointments and 155 discharges in the same period of three months." Now I ask you all to look at the magnetogram of the first regular session, how many appointments and how many discharges this government has carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u45	Thank you. Mrs. Anita Kolesh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u46	Nice greetings, Madam President, colleagues and colleagues! Yes, it is, the government of Mira Cerar has taken over the country that is bleeding. That's what the Minister of Finance said, that's what he said, that's what he said, that's what I would say, and that's probably the answer to whether our country is in some kind of critical state. The burden of saving the country is therefore exceptional, and the fact is that it also requires some exceptional treatment or exceptional measures as you wish. Therefore, in some ways, a special political responsibility should we touch upon the demands of the four politically responsible secretaries at the Ministry of Finance. We were not very pleased with the proposals offered by the four secretaries, but I must say that at this time we have been very, very well acquainted with the problems of the Ministry of Finance and have somehow found that no one has really addressed them so systematically and so responsibly, so I think that in some way this response to today's session is clear. With regard to the other changes that are before us today and of which you have spoken, dear colleagues and colleagues, I think it is right that these dilemmas have been set up, especially those that Mr Jani Möderndorfer spoke about. Why am I exposing him? Because I myself went to look at some history, for example, some of the changes that have taken place in this ministry, and I must say that I appreciate this desire for a certain continuity, perhaps with Minister Virant, even though you are talking about the weakness of his system. Don't talk about it, we're talking about how good it is to learn from the mistakes of others and that, for example, this analysis that was made last year – I think it's an analysis from the Plan of Reconstruction and the Programme of Measures for the Reform of Information Technology in the State Administration – but an extremely important document. Minister Koprivnikar explained to us that this analysis is also extremely important for the establishment of the system that he is now setting up. But we have something to say. All these systems that were being put in place did not actually have time to implement or had no time to fully implement. I don't know if we can say that some system has been successful and that we would now be so critical of what our ministry is doing now. This is where we have to believe. I was satisfied with all the answers, not just today. I must say that we have already obtained most of the answers in the legislative phase. I don't have much experience with computer science, I have even less knowledge, but I've been asking questions like my colleagues and colleagues, and we've been happy with them. I am not a fan of our minister, too, but I will, of course, if he succeeds, because I think the step he is taking is extremely big and important. There are still many such letters that we have faced today. Nor do I wonder if the letters are knocking on the door of some opposition parties. We haven't got them yet, because probably those who knock already know why they don't come to us. It's about people who have been for many years, so to speak, in the state mangers, and it's obvious they'll be slow at work. Or why are they putting pressure on our Members? I can't imagine anything else. But I would have ended up with one sentence, because my colleague had already mentioned it in front of me in the past years. Among other things, our colleague, Mr Tonin, said very well. Two years ago, in a debate on the Law on State Administration, I cannot imagine how we will achieve change without any change. I can't imagine it either, and that's what our minister said very well. That's why I'm going to confirm this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u47	Thank you. There are no further reports of debate. I am now putting to the debate Article 19 and the amendment of the United Left Group. Anybody want a word? Here you go, Mr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u48	Thank you. I mentioned the reasons for this amendment at the outset in the presentation of the Group's position. At this point, however, I would like to replicate or warn the Minister, who says that the regulation of the immovable property of the State actually defines this law as merely a real jurisdiction. Of course that's not true. If we are going to read the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, on the third page, we note from a systemic legal point of view that the subject of ZDU-1 is the determination of the actual competence of the ministries, whereas Article 19 of the proposal regulates the gradual centralisation of the treatment of immovable property of the State, which is an important systemic issue in the field of the management of immovable property of the State, so it is questionable from this point of view that this issue is regulated by a transitional provision and not by a system law in this area. In fact, I have already said that, above all, it is problematic here, as the SPS points out, that this matter is so quickly, without the analysis provided, although it may exist, without any concrete argument, regulated in some transitional provision of a law which is not supposed to regulate it. The President of the Government has repeatedly pointed out the importance of adopting laws with due thought, the importance of the rule of law, and has also repeatedly said that legislation has been adopted too quickly, without reflection and without any profound reflection. That is why I expect this amendment to be supported, this article in this proposal is deleted and this thing, which, in principle, I personally agree with, is said to be centralised, resolved in its or in its field law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u49	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. We're starting the application. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Vice President. Of course, this amendment is to be supported. Indeed, the fact is that we in the country will have to decide once how to manage real estate. And I am sure that practice everywhere in Europe also makes it very clear that most of the time the owner does not manage his own property. I'm not talking about family, I'm talking about when [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] Therefore, it makes sense to settle this with a strategy, that first the Government should make a very clear point of view, how it intends to manage it, and then finally determine who will actually manage it. The attempt was already in the government of Janša, if you recall when Minister Šuštersič of that time suggested that this could be done only in SDH. I wouldn't mix these two things up, I would certainly put it into the possibility of setting up either an economic company or a certain agency that actually knows how to manage this property with expertise, with a clear strategy of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u51	Thank you. There are no further reports of debate. The word is also wanted by the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Maybe I'll explain a little bit more about real estate management. It is not a system law, but it defines powers, as I have already explained. And since the Ministry of Public Administration under the Law on State Administration is responsible for the field of real property, it does not mean that it will decide exactly who will be the manager right now with this law, but now for these matters that have been listed. Strategy, legislation to be regulated, legislation on real estate, jurisdiction and so on. We know who's responsible for this. Last but not least, this special company, a fund that was already practically legal two years ago, is not an option excluded. Maybe, but now we know exactly who has the task of defining these problems and carrying out these procedures. What in particular are we already implementing in the area of real estate management, but I have already directed a little earlier. It is a single strategy, it is a matter of better governance, especially more transparent governance, and in my view, transparency of governance is the basis for establishing the internal market in the country. Today we have great problems and great irrationalities, because even within the country itself we do not know who may have some extra, inappropriate spaces, real estate and who needs them. In fact, we don't even know each other, if I put it this way, inside the house to seek rationality, and this is one of the grounds that the single management of real property actually approaches it. And finally, that fund design that was prepared years ago was prepared by the same team that is still in charge of real estate management today. This area is well - known and has a good historical memory, as well as a thorough study of all their views and backgrounds. At the same time, I must say both at this point and at the previous information technology issue, the following. Working with the same professionals who have knowledge, historical memory and backgrounds does not mean that final decisions are taken at the level of professional colleagues, and we are again assessing what is more rational and meaningful and, finally, more feasible at the long term. So once again, I stress that the definition of competence to manage real property does not mean that this matter does not have to be regulated by legislation that regulates it in detail and, of course, this legislation will also have to be prepared and amended in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u53	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We have exhausted our desire to discuss, so I am concluding the debate. The amendments will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 7th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 12.45 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u54	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 1st item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending the Financial Services Tax Act in the context of the urgent procedure. Since in the second reading the amendments to the amended bill were not tabled, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The amendment of the Financial Services Tax Act increases the rate from 6,5 % to 8,5 %. While this tax is paid by financial institutions to the budget, this tax is actually passed on to the economy. And it's probably the economy then the population. In short, this tax, which is a transport tax, will make the income of the population significantly smaller and more burdensome for the economy. I think that at the moment when the economy is in fact still in crisis, when the financial system is in crisis and when the real income of the population is falling, it is unacceptable that any taxes are increasing, especially those that are actually burdening the population. This is a regressive effect of transport taxes, which in other words means that those with less income actually pay more taxes on their income. Which means, in other words, that more burdened by social weakness, because we all have to use the so-called financial services that we use through financial institutions, through banks and so on. Each citizen and citizen shall receive an extract from the bank, indicating in particular the number of special financial services, the cost of the various contributions, the management of the account and so on. And all of this will now be burdened with a higher tax rate, which will also be evident on the tables, and I have no doubt that banks within their association will make sure that they pass the whole tax on the population and also on the economy, because the economy also has to pay that tax. This is not about any compensation for existing taxes or any tax which has been abolished on the balance sheet amount of the banks. This is essentially about the fact that this tax is increasing and that it's a special tax. While financial services are not taxed on value added tax, this means that they are in a worse position because they are exempt and have no entry tax. This tax, however, reduces once again the real income of the population and real income, as well as the financial result of the economy. For this reason, we will vote in the Slovenian Democratic Party against this tax and also against all the increases in taxes it is preparing and enforced by the current coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u56	Explanation of the SMC Group's vote, Mrs Urška Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u57	Thank you so much for saying that. This bill is prepared in accordance with all the commitments of the Republic of Slovenia which have already been adopted in the stability programme in mid-year and represents the budget framework for 2015. By increasing these two tax rates, we estimate that we will have a lower impact on the size of the population's income and minimal burden on businesses. In fact, we do not expect banks or insurance companies to fully absorb this cost to the final consumer. We expect that part of this will also burden the insurance company and the bank itself or that they will find their own internal reserves. In our view, it is a more equitable burden-sharing, because it is a tax on the subject matter of taxation. Thus, insurance and financial transactions are taxed. We believe that this has ensured a more equitable taxation of the financial sector compared to other economic operators already charged with indirect taxes. In view of the above, the SMC Group will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u58	Explanation of the vote by the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I announce that the New Slovenia Group, as we presented in the position of our Group, will vote against this law. This law, this tax policy is actually diametrically contrary to our direction in which we advocate the decommissioning of the economy, the unloading of citizens and citizens. Last time someone said yes, since this is a minimum increase in the tax rate, it is only a two percent increase in the tax rate. That's not true! This is an increase in the tax rate by two percentage points, i.e. from 6.5 to 8.5, which is a 30% increase! It is said that we are additionally burdening economic operators and, consequently, taxpayers by 30%. And we are concerned that the basic outline of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015, where a balance of public finances will be sought – unfortunately, we will not be able to achieve this for a long time – but only on the revenue side. That is, only with additional burdens. So far, we do not see any concrete measures to achieve balance on the expenditure side. Therefore, we simply cannot support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u60	Any other parliamentary groups? [[No, no, ……]] So we can go to the vote? Then I'm asking you to sign up for an explanation of vote. Voice explanation, Mr. Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will also vote against this law, because I am against any new taxation of the economy and also of the citizens. The government's strategy is unacceptable to me. By completely stopping any investment in state infrastructure projects, work is actually taken on the economy, and if you do not offer work first, there is also no way to introduce new taxes. That's the basics. And if you don't have this conditioned financial base, then taxes are not meaningful, they are not justified, and these financial services are burdened on both citizens and the economy. I absolutely oppose this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u62	Voice explanation, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u63	Thank you so much for saying that. I think that this day, when we decide on these proposals for new taxes and then at the college on a new tax package, it's a little ironic that it's actually a cynical choice. It's Michael's day. And on Miklavsev's day, you will give the citizens and the economy an additional 50 and the next round an additional 50 to 70 million euros. The government at this same meeting is unable to do anything to set the example of saving something. In the government there is the luxury of secretaries, officials, employment. On the other hand, these matters are burdened by citizens and citizens. Nor can this tax be covered by the bank because the banks are living on an infusion. We've recapitalized them, and we're gonna need them again, as it turns out. And the banks won't take it and draw it from the internal reserves, because that's impossible. This tax will be fully spilled or socialized, and you can only oppose such a way of working. No concrete measures, no savings, no administrative burdens, but always in this part of the mandate, in these few months, when you, all of this just collects, prescribes, burdens, and this is no even distribution of burdens. These burdens go exclusively to certain categories of people, to a particular structure, according to the economy and to those where the use of these services is [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] Those who are supposed to save money are prescribing taxes. Those who should save, prescribe and see reserves in all others, not in themselves. I'll go against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u64	Is there any other explanation? Mr. Branko Zorman.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u65	President, thank you for your word. I'd like to do a little history for the introduction. In 2012, the right-wing government introduced a financial service tax that had not been introduced in the past. So they're the ones who started the tax in this area. This was followed by the commitment of the former government, the real government of Alenka Bratušek, who made a commitment to the Stability Programme, and in the course of these commitments was also a commitment to increase the tax on financial services, while at the same time abolishing the tax on the balance sheet total of banks. And that's what happened. And the new burden on the economy is not true. The tax on financial services is increased from 6,5 % to 8,5 %, i.e. by 2 %, while the tax on balance sheet totals is completely abolished. So the effect is about the same. This is not a new tax and it is not a new burden on the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u66	Any other explanation for the voice? Voice explanation, mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This tax has its history, and this history is linked to the resolution of public finances in 2012. This was then announced as a temporary measure on the one hand and on the other, by preparing measures on the expenditure side, and these measures were actually adopted. So it was another situation that we were in back then, and it was here to compare the increase in this tax rate by saying that this is 2%, which of course is not true – it is 2 percentage points or 30%. And also, the fact that it is not an additional increase is not true because from 6.5 to 8.5 is a big difference or the difference is 30%. Here it is that this is done completely in mind and that this is not a tax refund on the balance sheet amount of banks, which has a completely different character, a completely different feature, is also paid from another base and is not essentially overtaken, but it had, yesterday there was also a lot of talk about it, a completely different purpose. So that this tax is passed on to the final consumer, it is increasing, and the final consumer, the population and the economy, will feel it on posts that will now be paid more and will therefore have less real income. This is a typical traffic tax that is being passed. If you don't push it, someone's going down. Will financial institutions fail to do so? I don't think so, because they're in some monopoly situation and they're all working through the Association of Banks of Slovenia. However, it is less real income that this government is taking on the population.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u68	Any other explanation for the voice? [[No, no, ……]] Then we can vote on the proposal for a law amending the Financial Services Tax Act. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 55 votes against 19. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interruption of item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending the Act on the Transport of Insurance Taxes in the framework of the urgent procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister! Another tax increase, this time on insurance services. This time, the government will increase the tax on insurance services from 6.5% to 8.5%. Thus, insurance services will be more expensive. We all probably also received a letter from insurance agents, we received a letter from the insurance association stating that 380 agencies were involved and that about 5,000 jobs were created. And these 5,000 jobs are being questioned today. Questioned because it is the same question as in the previous one, whether this tax can be passed on to insurers, that is to say those who are protecting their assets, who are protecting their lives, who are protecting themselves against accidents. And in view of this, ladies and gentlemen, that we have an increasing number of natural disasters in Slovenia, the expert estimates that these insurance will be less. Since the insurance will be reduced, compensation for damage caused by natural disasters is likely to be reduced. As a result, human property will be destroyed and damage will not be settled, which means greater poverty for humans. And you're doing this because you're increasing the rate of insurance services. This is what the insurance companies are talking about, and this means that people will end up paying for it all and suffering damage that will not be repaid. However, it may be reimbursed by the State budget. Firstly, it will later and, secondly, it will consume public finances. Instead of making it right for insurance companies, he will eventually settle the budget that he will want again new and new taxes. But even if this is restored once, the damage that will appear in humans will be great and greater, as it is estimated that people will withdraw from the collateral of their assets, and that includes all the insurance that occurs also due to natural disasters, floods, acorns that we witness. I think we should eliminate this tax by a factor, not by increasing the rate. That is why we will vote in the Slovenian Democratic Party against this law or against the increase of the tax from 6.5% to 8.5%.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u70	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u71	Thank you, Mr. President. Even in this law, the New Slovenia Group simply cannot accept. We cannot support a mere 30% increase in insurance tax. And we wonder who of the 115 thousand 411 in the unemployment register will get a job as a result of this action — none. Not one. And we cannot agree with such a tax policy, which should also, in principle, be stimulating; taxes must also be stimulating. This measure is certainly not stimulating to encourage citizens and legal persons to protect their assets and their lives. Every year we are considering the report of the Insurance Supervisory Agency, as well as other reports, and we see that we simply do not have the financial capacity to protect our lives and assets. It's like we think climate change and the associated natural disasters are passing us by. That's not true. We have a natural disaster every month. Of course, all these taxes will surely somehow translate into higher premiums, and this will actually result in less and less collateral for property and also for life. With such a policy, colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, we simply cannot agree. We can't even agree with the policy we're looking at. We're calculating the rate of indebtedness of this government. This rate is currently dramatic and amounts to EUR 0.8 million per hour. For 0.8 million euros an hour, this government is in debt! This worries us deeply, and we ask ourselves: ‘ Who will give us the work, and who will give the work to the young? Where are the measures for new jobs? They're not here in this marriage, just the opposite. We will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u72	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u73	Unlike the predecessors, I'll back it up. It is true that there will be no new jobs, but if I am not afraid for anyone in this country, I am not afraid for insurance companies. And if anyone knew how to care in this country, the insurance companies knew each other. Don't joke! I believe that insurance companies will be able to calculate very quickly when their traffic has fallen and whether they are worth raising their premiums. Don't joke, my dears! The insurance companies know and control their business, so don't make money on it because nothing's going to happen. I'll back that up.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u74	Is there any other explanation for the voice? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group, Mrs Urška Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u75	Thank you very much. This bill is also prepared in accordance with the commitments of the Republic of Slovenia already adopted in the stability programme. Even in our parliamentary group, we are aware, on the one hand, that this tax or increase of this tax will increase the burden of carrying out insurance business, but we do not expect a cartel agreement between insurance companies that will bring this law into line with the end-users. We therefore believe that this law will have a minor negative impact on economic growth. On the other hand, we are also aware of all the commitments we have to fulfil in a public financial sense, and we need to take certain measures on both the revenue and expenditure sides of the budget. At the time of the preparation of the 2015 budget base, the government indicated 715 million euro in the preparation of the framework. There are 600 million on the expenditure side and some more than 100 million on the revenue side. On the expenditure side of the budget it is a whole series of measures that may not be directly linked to the amendment of the law, sufficient is the decision of the Government or the amendment of the sub-legislative act, and we will in fact see them directly when the 2015 budget rebalance is presented to us. So these measures are being prepared. However, let me say here that all legislative proposals, which constitute a kind of raising of tax rates, additional tax burdens currently in the National Assembly or still coming, mean, in terms of public finances, in terms of the budget, the nominal retention of taxation as it is this year. We are not increasing the level of burden higher than we have this year. This is a loss or substitution on one side of the tax on the balance sheet amount of banks and a reduction in the income tax, given the public financial sense. Since this amendment to the law is in line with the stability programme and thus an integral part of the measures to achieve the public funding objectives set, we will support this law or this amendment in the SMC Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u76	Any other parliamentary groups? [[No, no, ……]] What other explanation? Yeah. I'm asking you to sign up. Voice explanation, Mr. Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u77	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I must stress once again that I will vote against it. I hope that this speech will also go into a magnetogram and that people will look at what measures you have taken in which situations you have approached. I can say that your only word that is true today is that we have to replace the loss of income. Such negotiations as the Minister had with the trade unions should be made up for on the other hand. Where we have reserves, we didn't do it. In excise policy, nothing has happened in recent days, even though I have been alerting this for over a year and a half, I have shown diagrams, calculations of what will happen. So we've thrown 50 million over our backs and now we've got a tax on insurance services. Let's look at the trends in insurance, which I think are very important. Compared to last year, the value of the accumulated premium of the entire insurance portfolio decreased by 2.6%, approximately €45 million. In the property area by 2% and in the life area, i.e. life insurance, 4.5%. We are now additionally burdening people with life insurance and so on. If you think that insurance companies have not yet found some internal solutions, cost optimization, you are mistaken. It may not be the main and monopolistic insurance company Triglav, which has more than 30% interest. This may not be the case, but you need to solve this with other measures. I'm predicting a reduction of this portfolio by an additional few percent. In this case, in this time period where the state is being shown, it means less, respected colleagues. It means less, and it'll turn out in weeks and months. This policy, which you are leading, will show that our business environment will be even more hostile to foreign investors and to our tradesmen, people, residents and residents, and of course to businesses. Therefore, once again, I will vote against this.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u78	I would only point out further that I would like, above all, explanations of vote, less debate. I give my word to Mr. Branko Zorman.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u79	President, thank you for your word. I will vote in favour of this law for the reasons already mentioned. However, I would like to refer a little to what Mr Shircelj has pointed out to Oziroma, I would like to explain this voice in numbers. [[...]] Okay? What you're saying is that 30% will then increase the price of this insurance service is demagogy, that's not true. Of course that's not true. The tax is increased by 2%, and – since I am good with numbers – this means that if insurance companies switched to insurers, 1.8% increase in the final premium, that is to say premiums with tax. But because I believe that we live in a market country where the market economy is valid and where, as my colleague Jani said, insurance is also valid – and insurance companies can certainly calculate very well, as he said – I believe that this will not be passed on to insurance companies, but it will go to the profit of insurance companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u80	A voice explanation, Mrs. Susana Nice Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u81	Thank you for your word. Unlike my predecessor, I believe that insurance companies will pass this difference on to insurers in the increase in the tax. So I'm not worried about insurance, but I'm worried about insurance. Anyway, this is about insurance that concerns property, cars, houses that we have, I believe, all insured, and also life insurance. If we can at least look at it in general, it's not an extremely high amount every year. This may be about 20 euros per year for individuals. But here, on the other hand, we must take account of the economy. What about the companies? Some have very high premiums. For those, this already means thousands of euros, for a large amount of EUR 20 000 more than the premium, and here, in fact, new jobs are also at risk. And anyway, once again, you're at odds with your economic minister, who wants to unload the economy. We are putting an extra burden on him here, both for the economy and for the citizens. So I'm absolutely against raising this tax from 6.5 to 8.5%.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u82	Any other explanation for the voice? I'm asking you to sign up. Voice explanation, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u83	Thank you very much. I will say in the beginning that I will not support the law, because we do not expect an upgrade of the tax state to the situation of not only the state, the institution of the country, but mainly the population and the economy, but, above all, we expect that there will be a unloading, that people will also be able to live easier and bear the burdens that have passed on them due to the failure of some governments since 2009. This incentive or change in the tax rate will be directly distributed by the portfolio of what people pay, what we have secured, either in the form of compulsory or additional insurance. None of the institutions, none of the banks or insurance companies in this case will suffer anything, but will simply, through the formula they have, divide it and turn it into a premium. And it'll only pay more than it's paid by now. I don't think it's possible to solve the problems that are in this country. The government can do the most on its own, it can reduce the number of ministries, the number of state secretaries, the number of government officials, increase efficiency, and much of what it wants to collect over taxes will be received in another way. That's why I'm gonna go against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u84	Voice explanation, Mr. Bojan Podkoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u85	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will vote against this law myself. We heard earlier in the hall of a colleague that the insurance company would somehow find its way. I'm not afraid for insurance companies at all, they're going to get away with it, but it's the burden of our citizens and citizens. This law, which I expect to be confirmed today, is bad for our citizens and citizens, as well as for new jobs. In particular, since these insurance companies have large sums secured, it is therefore questionable what kind of employment is here. I will therefore vote against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u86	Explanation of vote, Mr Andrej Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u87	Thank you very much, President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will also vote against this law or against the increase in the rate from 6.5 to 8.5 %, which is 2 percentage points or 30% in the increase in rates, not in the increase in the price of insurance. As a result, the price of insurance will increase slightly less than 2 euros per month as calculated. On the other hand, this means so much and so much more per year and every year so much and so much more insurance services, so much and so much more tax on financial services. These are the household costs that, I will say, are somehow hidden, which are not even viewed, but because of this the purchasing power of people is actually falling and the income of the population is actually falling. These are essentially invisible costs. I am firmly against this, even because the economy is additionally burdened — not by the insurance industry, but by the economy. At the time of the forecast of 600 million cuts in expenditure by means of sub-laws, which was mentioned here, I am literally surprised because of the way this will be done, I do not understand and do not know in this country. And how this government will do it with the budget itself. So this is now the next question, and I think that replacing the expenditure with higher tax revenues and increasing the burden of taxes will by no means work together, and this situation will by no means come out in the 2015 budget. I am resolutely opposed to increasing these tax rates.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u88	Any other explanation for the voice? [[No, no, ……]] So we can vote on the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Transport of Insurance by Emergency Procedure. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 18. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act in the framework of the urgent procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, that is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 4. 12. 2014, which you received on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 5 of the SDS Group. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With this amendment, we propose to delete the provision which will oblige those entrepreneurs who cannot operate electronically to confirm the tax administration's accounts. That the nonsense is even greater, the bill-maker, the Government, suggests that they do it electronically. But the Chamber of Commerce says that so many and so many entrepreneurs who have started to work, which are new, there is no way that they can do this electronically, which means they can't also issue electronic accounts and, as a result, probably can't even confirm these accounts electronically, which means that the nonsense is already complete from this point of view and there will be a lot of trouble here already with these accounts actually being confirmed. Secondly, the validation of accounts by the tax administration is a complete nonsense and therefore the grey economy will not be reduced. Nor will the grey economy be smaller if it goes to certain entrepreneurs or those who sell mushrooms and are caught by tax inspectors on the roads and then shown as a great success in Slovenian media, or those who occasionally sell flowers and so on. As a result, the tax collection costs are disproportionately higher than the tax collection itself. As a result, the additional administrative and bureaucratic measures proposed by the Government of Mira Cerar are nonsense and are actually detrimental to Slovenian entrepreneurship and are also detrimental to the country's competitiveness. Today you can send money from Slovenia or Slovenia to any country by pressing the button. You'll go to the tax office on foot to confirm the bill. Come on, that's total nonsense! Send the money to Luxembourg, press the button and send it to any fund, it will be taxed 0.25% or not, that profit. And here you will go to the tax office to confirm this. Well, people of God, let's get real! Let us draw this country out of the crisis, let us take some measures that will be competitive for the economy that will create jobs, but not with bureaucratic and administrative measures that will burden everyone in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u90	Is there any other explanation for the voice, but is there really an explanation for the voice? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group, Mr Simon Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u91	Thank you for your word. We will vote against this amendment. One of the main reasons why Article 5 should be deleted is that new bureaucratic obstacles will arise. It is important to ask what this bureaucratic obstacle will look like in practice. So we have two types of entrepreneurs that this Article 5 will hit. They're the ones who don't have the Internet, they don't have the computer, and those who went back from computer billing to handouts because they wanted to avoid taxes. Two groups. And now I'm not going to limit myself to another group because this moment doesn't matter. What's important is those who don't have the Internet and don't have the computer. And they have a person who is authorized to broadcast on their behalf – by law, you have to submit annual reports electronically – and this is usually their accountant. And what it's going to look like now is this new bureaucratic obstacle in practice: when he goes to buy these account blocks, he's going to call the accountant, he's going to tell him the number from where the accounts are, and he's going to put it into e-tax and the case is closed. But if he has a computer at home, and he doesn't issue bills because it's impractical for his profession, he issues them on his hands, he goes home to eDavke, he goes to get documents, he fills out numbers, he signs them electronically and he gives them away. There are no additional bureaucratic obstacles that would really take so long; that's a few minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u92	Is there any other explanation for the voice? Excuse me? Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Now I'd like you to issue a directive on the explanation of the cases that are here. When our Members speak, you stumble with every explanation of the voice that is correct, and there was nothing to read about the voice that Shircelj had. When your Members speak, press your head down. If you are President of all Members, if you are running the National Assembly on behalf of all, then be equal to all. And I suggest that before you go into the next intervention, you give instructions that we will all be able to read and explain as well as you do. I think that this is the only thing that is still missing in this National Assembly, and that is also the only cooperation that is likely to be lacking from the point of view of the majority coalition in the National Assembly, that we will all think as the President thinks and speak as the President thinks and wants. I suggest that you either intervene with everyone or let everyone say what they think not only to meet the MPs of our Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u94	It follows from Parliament's practice that the explanation of the vote is not a controversy, a title, a persuasion, a call, and a question which is the object of the debate, but rather a presentation of the substantive reasons why the Group or Member will vote in favour or against the proposed solution. So, he justifies his vote or the voice of his delegation. And he usually does not do so by trying to persuade others or by encouraging them or by asking questions or anything similar. Before I could even react, it was procedural, but good. I agree that we must all stick to this. The last time we had this thing, can I finish? [[...]] The last time we had this matter, it went in the direction of the call, and I began to warn individual Members. This time I did not go to the Members' warning, but I only pointed out to the two that this is not entirely in line with the explanation of the vote, but I agree that in the beginning the form was correctly used, namely explaining what, for whom or in what way it is voted. At the same time, there were two Members in the previous debate who did not at all justify this, both on the opposition's side and on the opposition's side, and I did not intervene there. I do not intend to mediate any more when it comes to explaining the parliamentary vote of an individual parliamentary group, but otherwise I do ask, and the purpose of this explanation of vote is to explain individually how it will vote, even though it would make sense to explain why it will not vote as the parliamentary group would vote. This would have a really big sense of substance, a lot of added value, but otherwise this is actually a business arrangement, and as long as it determines business as it is, and as long as there is also Article 282 in the Rules of Procedure, which says that I am in charge of the meeting, I will decide when I will intervene and when I will not intervene. Any other explanation for the voice? Procedurally, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u95	He gave his colleague Tanko procedurally and suggested that you give the instructions. We have a guide, this is the rules of procedure, the only instructions to which we can refer, and this colleague Jože Tanko knows so well that it is, in fact, once again a type of abuse. You know, instructions in the National Assembly have already been issued by your former client colleague, Gregor Virant. He was talking about how we have to address ourselves, how we have to scream, how we don't have to know what to do. For this reason, I hope that, President, no guidance will ever be given, which is in fact laid down in the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Tanko, I suggest you: in the hands of the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u96	I don't take that as a procedural question, but no, it's nothing, it doesn't deserve to be, I mean, a lot of people would deserve a reminder, but I rarely give reminders. [[...]] [[...]] I ask further whether anyone else has an explanation of vote, first on behalf of the Group of Members. There is no more explanation for the vote on behalf of the Group of Members. But you will apply for an individual explanation of vote, please. Voice explanation, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u97	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. If I recall correctly, at the beginning of 2009, Irma Pavlinič Krebs took over in New York at the UN recognition given to Slovenia for reforms under the 2004-2008 mandate and for de-de-irocratisation. That was a world confession. Now we will probably get if these solutions, which you are proposing, are accepted, a global recognition of bureaucracy, to put obstacles to entrepreneurs, to complicate their operation. We set additional costs, prescribe new acts, tests, controls at all possible offices and so on. For these reasons, because such bureaucratic obstacles only further exacerbate the conditions for the operation of entrepreneurs, especially businesses in areas that we say are subject to certain special or restrictive factors where there is no internet where there are bad lines where there are remote places, and because this only further complicates the lives of these people, I will support the solution we are proposing, that is to say the amendment to stop this nonsense. In addition to additional taxes, we place additional obstacles on citizens, and this is unsustainable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u98	Any other explanation for the voice? [[No, no, ……]] We then move on to a decision on the amendment of Article 5 of the SDS Group. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 59. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 59.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. On behalf of the delegation? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u99	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will not confirm this amendment to the Tax Procedure Act. There are many reasons. Firstly, this law will further consolidate the business of taxpayers, craftsmen and entrepreneurs. On the other hand, this will not contribute to a smaller grey economy and less tax avoidance. I think that such a measure will even increase tax avoidance, because people will find countless ways of overestimating a certified tax administration account. Thirdly, this matter is not modern. People are constantly being encouraged, new measures are being taken against the grey economy, but nothing happens, as the impact of the inspection measures is actually small, compared to forces, resources, people and so on, which are intended to receive more tax. It is wrong, however, that this is directed at small entrepreneurs, occasional flower vendors, candles, volcanoers, gophers and the like, not those companies where international transactions are concerned, where there is a lot of money and tax spill over transfer prices. Here is another provision, which refers to provisions relating to the exchange of information with the United States of America. We do not oppose this in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We are wondering, however, because the tax system in the country is also part of double taxation agreements, which are double taxation today, as the OECD also notes. Under the double taxation agreement with Luxembourg, the tax administration may require information on the amount of income paid to natural persons in Luxembourg. This agreement exists. We wonder how many times the tax administration has asked Luxembourg to obtain this data and if it has obtained it or actually has it. But these are the solutions that will contribute to a smaller grey economy or a smaller black economy in the country. And since the government of Mira Cerar is addressing this issue at the wrong end, it is additionally bureaucratic to operate businesses, we will vote against this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u100	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? On behalf of the SMC Group, Mrs Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. In the SMC, we understand the most important solutions to this proposed law in the provisions aimed at combating the grey economy. In our opinion, the bill increases transparency in cash transactions and thus reduces the possibility of non-payment of taxes. By pursuing this objective, the issuance of accounts shall be governed in cash operations irrespective of form in a manner that will allow for the transparency of the data on invoices issued and any subsequent changes to those accounts. The proposed bound books do not constitute greater red tape, but they are a complementary measure that will allow for transparency in cash transactions. We can stress that the solutions to this Act also provide for the implementation of an agreement on improving international compliance with tax rules and the implementation of the so-called FATCA Agreement. The draft law regulates the obligations of the financial institutions of Slovenia vis-à-vis the competent authority of Slovenia, but does not impose additional obligations on financial institutions, as is the case with the said agreement. We expect that the proposed solutions will limit the possibility of avoiding the payment of taxes on cash transactions and that action against cases of grey economy will therefore be more effective and the extent of taxes collected for all public treasury. For this reason, we will support the proposal of the SMC Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u102	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u103	Thank you for your word. When I was deciding to support myself, I especially took two factors into account. The first is that the introduction of bound books should not affect those debtors who are forced to carry out their work with the status of self-employed. These workers generally do not perform trades or professions of their own, such as lawyers and doctors. In fact, these workers should be in a normal working relationship. Employers, however, force them into a position without working rights with a high risk of poverty and health problems and with poor prospects for the future. Therefore, they must not be burdened with tax rules. In my opinion, this law does not impose additional burdens, so it is acceptable in this part. However, I find it much more difficult to support the part that introduces cooperation between Slovenia and the United States in the field of compliance with tax rules on accounts abroad. The real problem is legalised tax evasion in the heart of the European Union. As long as the European Union allows tax dumping even in its Member States and their Heads of Government are appointed Presidents of the European Commission, there will be no fair taxation of financial revenues and assets. Legalised tax avoidance is not an anomaly, but the goal of the global exploitation system. The government is therefore ahead of a difficult and responsible task, and I support it. With these concerns and good faith, we will therefore fully support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u104	Is there any other explanation for the vote on the part of the parliamentary group? If not, please apply for individual explanations of vote. Voice explanation, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u105	Thank you for your word. Given the seriousness of the situation in the Slovenian economy, it would be expected that many quality solutions will be offered here today. I'm afraid that's not the case. The law before us cannot be supported for any number of reasons. First of all, because I think he's got the wrong name and it's not consistent with the content. The law on strengthening bureaucracy and destroying the Slovenian economy should be called, because as much as this seemingly bureaucratic pursuit of the grey economy may lead to more budgeting, budgetary resources will be spent on monitoring, additional bureaucracy, additional bureaucratic procedures, and the result in terms of the economy will only be negative, only negative. Nothing positive can be expected of this. And you know, because it means extra burden, physical, otherwise, time, in certain cases also cash, for individual entities in the Slovenian economy, entrepreneurship, for people, this solution is at the level of medieval R & D, decay, this is a paradisaic solution. There, you know, those who were wounded, the knights on the battlefield, then the paratroopers, to clean up their unclean blood, because the poor were bleeding, added leeches to drink some more of their blood, and claimed they were saving them. This is about the way you treat the Slovenian economy, our economy. It is not surprising, therefore, that the Government is dizzyingly losing support, but unfortunately, when it comes to prosperity, quality of life, for our own country, we all lose.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u106	As I see it, there is no longer interest in explaining the vote, so we can vote on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 59 votes against 15. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreigners in the framework of the urgent procedure We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u107	Thank you very much. We will not support this law, nor will we hinder you from accepting it. Why? It is simply that, in this national assembly, we clearly adopt lex specialis laws in this mandate. One of the five laws was that the opposition, I mean the Alliance, put it specifically on a person because it wants to get rid of him from Parliament. That's not how it works, you know. Well, we're not going to support the marriage because this marriage is also a lex specialis. We could call this Anja the Ripper of the Dark. The President himself said that this was a law on amendments and additions to the law on amendments and additions. Why? Since Mrs Anja Kopač Mrak, as Minister in the previous government from 1 April until the start of this government, has not done her job, nor has she done it after coming back into the new government, we are now adopting this law. Indeed, this law is the one that has foreseen that – the institution of the law is the Ministry of the Interior – the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities must also amend the law on the employment of foreigners in accordance with this law. Look, in every real life — in this national assembly and in this government there is no real life — someone who does not perform his tasks loses his job. If you don't do your job at some factory, they'll probably drive you away. It's a little bit like that in government, but in principle, you can't go through without working. And since Mrs Anja Kopač Dark did not do her job, she did not submit a law for which she had five months' time, it came to her becoming a minister again. It's like that worker who manufactures a box in the New Town of Twingoths is making progress for the director. I mean, that's what you're going on about. And it's not right for a lady to become a minister again. We are now changing the law, and we are giving this lady, who has not done her job, six months more to do her tasks. Let her do it, and you'll obviously let her do it without us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u108	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u109	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The bill you have on your desks merely gives silence to the Minister for Work, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Mrs Anja Kopač Dark, and it is not true that the period of implementation of this law is prolonged simply because the government has changed in the meantime. Mrs Anja Kopač Mrak has already been a minister in the previous government, and what we now accept is only a silence to the work of the competent ministry. This is a great shame, because the Foreigners Act, which you adopted in your previous term on 1 April, is very good. The Foreigners Act is very good, because it simplifies procedures, and if the responsible department also adopts the Employment and Work Act, I am talking about the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, without any problems 1. 1. 2015 can already apply the Aliens Act. Since there was no responsibility for the drafting of this law, the Employment Act and the work of foreigners, you will confirm today that we can postpone the adoption of the Aliens Act until 1 September 2015. If we were a little bit more responsible at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, this thing would go right through. Within eight months, within eight months, the competent ministry was unable to draw up appropriate legislation. Where do we live? And I wonder if the Minister and her colleagues will do so by September 1st, or if we will say again that we are extending for another six months. And also the Legal and Legislative Service has warned on the spot that we should extend it for at least three months, that is acceptable, and for nine months it is too much. That's because there's actually no responsibility here. In fact, he represents the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior, not the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Since there is no responsibility and it is indeed a cover-up for a Sunday, we will vote against this law in Novi Slovenija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u110	Is there any other explanation for the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? On behalf of the Group Alliance Alenka Bratušek, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u111	Dear Secretary of State Boštjan Šefic! I hope that both ministers will give you something for this because you have to endure this for the third time – first on the committee, then on the debate itself, and now on the vote. You have thick skin, I admire you. But what's more important than that is that I'm interested in who's really responsible. In fact, one nice sentence that has been mentioned all the time: due to the scope of procedures, implementation, employment, you know how it works, right? [[...]] We should really be responsible for this. We all know that ministers don't write laws. This isn't any special art. While the secretaries of state are a little more involved in that law, all that is down is what should have happened. And if so, I wonder what the employment agency is doing, because there should be some concrete words about how things are. Well, we'll support it, unlike the others. We're going to support this because we don't have any left. But you need to know: due to the negligence of the Ministry of Labour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u112	Is there any other explanation for the vote on the part of the parliamentary groups? What other explanation for the voice? [[No, no, ……]] Then we turn to the vote on the proposal for a law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreigners by Emergency Procedure. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 55 votes against 4. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration in the framework of the urgent procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled of 5. 12. 2014, which you received on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 11. This amendment is substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Articles 12 and 20. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendments to Articles 12 and 20 will become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 50. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 11 has not been adopted, the amendment of the same proposal to Article 12 has become irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the United Left Group to Article 19. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 52. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 11 has not been adopted, the amendment of the same proposal to Article 20 has also become irrelevant. This concludes the vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u113	Thank you for your word. In the SDS Group, we would not object to this law if it were merely a formal implementation of what you wrote in the Government Act. Otherwise, we objected to you increasing the number of ministries from 13 to 17. You have even allowed yourself to have two ministers in stock, but this is your right, and you have also demonstrated your political stance: the country is rich and the nation should pay for it all. Nor do we have any problem with the urgency of this case, if it were only for this matter, that, in accordance with what you have changed ministries, you are also new to the administration of the state. No trouble at all, that's how you made your bed. But you wanted two new secretary of state at the Ministry of Finance. We strongly oppose this in the SDS Group. In addition, you even wrote that there are no additional financial effects or consequences. Two new employees, and you're saying that it won't cost any more, because we're going to crease elsewhere, less other employees and so on. Firstly, I feel that there are many in this Chamber who do not even know what state officials are, what they are employed in the cabinet of a single minister, what state secretaries are as political officials. We are also against this law because, following an emergency procedure, you introduce the centralisation of the management of the property of the State and in particular the centralisation of the information system of the state administration. Two matters to be settled by 1. 1. 2018, you have pressed into this urgent procedure in this law. We strongly oppose this in the SDS Group, because we believe that there are a lot of things that we cannot wait for in the National Assembly to be submitted as urgent procedures because they are necessary for the country. But no. For example, with the 2015 budget rebalancing, you're waiting and you're doing some magic, but you're hiding something behind this centralisation, but you're still pushing for an emergency that's going to take place up to 1. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And yes, the changes are necessary, but with the analysis, not the horror. Apparently, only the Minister knows the analysis. The Secretary of State didn't present them to us at the working body meeting. Today the minister said he had the tests, but he didn't introduce them to us. In short, let me conclude a little differently than before: sweet pre-election promises in theory receive diametrically opposite cruelly permissive performances in practice. We strongly oppose this and such laws in the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u114	Is there any other explanation of vote on the part of the parliamentary groups? On behalf of the SMC Group, explanation of vote, mag. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u115	Thank you, President, for your word. The State Administration Act means the implementation of the Government Act. It expresses the need for two additional secretaries due to the scope of the problem at the Ministry of Finance. This is due to the fact that this is necessary in order to effectively address the problem and competence of other stakeholders involved in this issue and that State secretaries have significantly different or stronger powers than senior and middle management. At the same time, let me say that the number of State secretaries in this government has not increased in proportion to the growth of ministries, as has been the case in the previous two governments, and does not mean the wealth of the state administration as it is trying to say. The Public Administration Act also addresses two areas that should have been regulated long ago and represent a large expenditure on the expenditure side of the budget, namely state information technology and its management, and the area of public procurement. At the same time, it also gives the authority to save and increase revenue on the budget for better real estate management. We can't expect the effects today. These effects will be visible after a certain period of time, but there must be a legal mandate to begin to resolve this area. For this reason, Members of the SMC Group will support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u116	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u117	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Minister of Finance, Mr Maramor, had four secretaries of state, and I doubt that because of the need, but more so because of his own principle, he was already in 2002-2004, when he was a finance minister for the first time. I am aware that there is now a need for several secretaries of state that this is indeed necessary, but believe me, this is not too disproportionate to whether this minister will then be a good finance minister. Our former finance minister, the president of the party, Dr Andrej Bajuk, had two secretaries of state and one is now a member of the National Assembly. Yes, Mr Jurša, he was an excellent finance minister, awarded the best finance minister in Europe. So I would like to point out that this is not too disproportionate. The expansion of its own apparatus is, for the first time, a poor example for citizens and citizens. Today you have imposed new taxes on them, but on the other hand, your court is bountiful. I said earlier that in sholastic they had said that the ruler must strive to eliminate unnecessary costs and to introduce moderate taxes. You're doing the opposite. Take a look at history, and you will see what needs to be done for good governance. As far as this marriage is concerned, we will not support it because the apparatus is expanding needlessly. On the other hand, the very explanation of the needs under this law, which states that it will have no financial consequences, does not. There will be financial consequences. So let's be real here. This is about new writing boards, new administrative barriers that will come. Secondly, in New Slovenia we do not agree that local communities, as well as some other budgetary users, will have to pay for the use of the central information and communication system. These are three reasons why we will vote against New Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u118	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u119	Minister, this is probably the last law you will allow this government to finally start working on December 5th. You shared your assignments with him, and I'd say on the farm, let's get to work. I hope that through this debate you have understood the messages that await you. I hope you have a happy hand, and we'll follow you. We will not support the law as such because we disagree. This, I think, has also been argued in a very clear debate on the Committee. And good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u120	Is there any other explanation for the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[No, no, ……]] What other explanation for the voice? Voice explanation, mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will vote against the amendment of this law, especially because I think it is unnecessary for the Minister of Finance to have four State Secretaries. The nature of the work at the Ministry of Finance is not such that the four State secretaries provide greater efficiency. I think they're going to ensure less efficiency. They've got five Directorates there. Five Directorates are easily covered by two State Secretaries and a Minister, which means that they can perform all other works, all international obligations, obligations to international financial institutions and so on. In short, that's unnecessary. Ladies and gentlemen, if we look at the result of our work today, we can find that we have additionally taxed citizens and citizens, businesses, that we have prevented the payment of additional damage to people, because we have additionally taxed insurance services, that we have liberalised the economy, independent entrepreneurs and other legal persons by giving them the obligation to confirm the accounts on the tax administration, and in the end we have given the Minister of Finance two more secretaries of state, to increase the public administration. It is not true that the public administration will not increase because the number of State secretaries to the President of the Government is not decreasing. And as a result, ladies and gentlemen, we have increased public administration, increased administration, made the economy more difficult and burdened the economy. I'm against this law, and I'm against the other laws that happened. We haven't done anything good for people, ladies and gentlemen. You've done nothing good for people and nothing good for the economy, but damage.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u122	Any other explanation for the voice? Voice explanation, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u123	Thank you very much. I called in for the debate earlier, and then time ran out, so this is all I've got. I'll go against the law, that's a clear point. But to explain why. Look, ladies and gentlemen, you have written into the coalition contract that you will act rationally and responsibly to rationalise the state administration. You're the one who fucked up people. I'm sorry – you cheated people on me to speak well, Mr President. By the way, from 11 ministers in the government of Janez Janša and 12 in the government of Alenka Bratušek you went to 17. Of course, everyone has two secretaries of state, just like he had before. And what else did you do? Now you're adding state secretaries, four. Since that law in 2003, the Secretary of State has been in some way a political function since we introduced one Secretary of State, later two, when the ministries are united. And you're giving four Secretaries of State again. The fact that you're lying, you're saying there won't be any financial implications, is perhaps a little less important. Then the minister tells another lie, namely that they will leave the cabinet of the Prime Minister. Tell me who. Mr. Dragonja? He knows the economy. Is he going to go? He graduated from the military academy in Belgrade. Maybe you'd be fine with the financier. Or Lenarchich. Look, not in such a cheap way to push people around. Don't do this. And don't talk like that because you know it won't happen. You know very well that you will have four Secretaries of State because you promised someone a salary or you promised someone a position because you are obliged to do so. But you have to tell people that, not us. This is important. Well, against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u124	Is there any other explanation? Please sign up. Procedural? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u125	In view of the fact that we have discussed earlier what explanation is and what is not, I would ask that we stick to the explanation of vote. Thank you. [[advertising from the hall]] I felt like I was talking.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u126	We'll be careful what that explanation is, but it's the last explanation for the vote today. That is why the explanation for the vote, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u127	Thank you so much for saying that. I will not support the law because the financial consequences are not in line with what this law brings, because these additional State Secretaries at the Ministry of Finance will not volunteer their duties, but will be paid by officials. They will not work in such a way as the expert group established by the Mandate-Election Commission, when some have just given up their remuneration and have done their work in black, if I understand these matters. You'll get paid. And one more thing. A number of State secretaries in the state administration do not mean that the state or the resort will work better, but it will mean a larger number of forms, a larger number of bureaucratic barriers, a larger number of all those elements that stop the country. No rationalisation is going to happen. And agreeing that things are going to go better and differently, it is not possible because it is quite clear that every new job in the administration is going to bring new costs, new forms, new barriers, new computers and so on. That is why I see absolutely no rational reason, not for reasons of law, not for knowledge of the functioning of the system, nor for any other reason to support this law. That is why I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u128	Any other explanation for the voice? Voice explanation, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u129	Thanks again for saying that. I will vote against the red thread that characterises this entire meeting. Actually, we have a bureaucratic government if someone hasn't figured it out yet. And how does the bureaucratic government react in view of Slovenia's overly liberalised regime? Answers bureaucraticly, with bureaucracy, even more bureaucracy, in line with Murphy's law, to regenerate bureaucracy from some level further and build new bureaucracy. And in doing so, everyone is happy; even a two-thirds majority of you have almost reached each vote. But you forgot who pays for it – the Slovenian economy. It is precisely those who should be dedicated to this meeting and where we should look for solutions in order to enable them to work, in order to enable them to open up high productive jobs to enable them, the economy, to become more competitive in the global market. This is not the case today, but only new jobs for new employees at the expense of taxpayers, solutions that are clear in advance that they will consume more taxpayers' money than they can ever bring, and that is all. I would also like to see that the Slovenian Constitution applies here, not just Murphy's laws. But apparently, in the governments of the transition left, it's impossible to wait.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-05-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u130	Any other explanation for the voice? If not, then we are voting on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 26. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also have two notifications. Members of the College will be informed that in 15 minutes, this is at 2.30 p.m., a meeting of the College in the Grand Hall of Tomšič. Members and members of the Committee on European Union Affairs would like to recall that the first continuation of the 14th meeting of the Committee will begin 15 minutes after the end of the meeting of the National Assembly in the large lounge. I also conclude the 7th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly.
