ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the third extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Member: Iva Dimic, mag. Alenka Bratušek, Marijan Pojbič, Franz Breznik, Miha Kordiš, Matjaž Hanžek from 3 p.m. and Anita Kolesh from 12 p.m. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 2. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing the President and Vice-President of the Constitutional Commission. In accordance with the fifth indent of the sixth paragraph of Article 21 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 1st meeting on 22 August 2014 that the post of President of the Constitutional Commission shall belong to the Group of the Party of Mir Cerar and the post of Vice-President of the Commission shall be decided by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. The Group of Ambassadors, Mir Cerar, is proposing to me as chairman of the Commission and the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia is proposing to Mr Marjano Kotnik Popotat as Vice-President. You have received a motion for a decision appointing the President and Vice-President of the Constitutional Commission. In order to present my views, I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. For the United Left Group, Mr Matjaž Hanžek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u2	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the United Left Group, we believe that the two proposed candidates are appropriate and we are confident that they will also do their job well and properly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u3	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. I also note that there are no reported debaters at this point. That is why I am concluding the debate and moving on to a decision. Members and Members shall be free to check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on the proposal for a decision appointing the President and Vice-President of the Constitutional Commission. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the election of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. On the basis of the decision to determine the number of seats of Member groups in the working bodies of the National Assembly and on the establishment of the parliamentary groups belonging to them as Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the working bodies of the National Assembly, adopted by the College of the President of the State on 22 August 2014, and in accordance with my letter of 3 September 2014 to the National Assembly, they submitted proposals for the President, Vice-President and members of that Commission. In order to present my views, I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. First of all, the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, welcome. Slovenia has at least three different forms of security and intelligence services. The most famous is definitely the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency or brief Owl. The Ministry of Defence also has its own intelligence and security service, which deals with slightly more military matters, while also carrying out the tasks of intelligence and security dimensions. It is crucial for this Parliament to exercise civilian control over these services. Today, after months, after several days, we still have weeks of parliamentary control over intelligence services. Yesterday a new government was appointed, and practically this government will have a hand over these security and intelligence services. The President of the Government will have a direct hand over the Owl and the Minister of Defence will have a direct hand over the military intelligence and security service. All of these things could first be the opposition and also the whole country's concern because there is no civility because there is no parliamentary control over these services. Of course, the Parliamentary Commission, which oversees these services and which exercises this civilian control, is a special commission. Members are loved by the votes of all Members, and it is also special that the majority of the opposition in this committee must have the opposition, that this commission is slightly smaller than others, because it can carry out its tasks more effectively, and that for each supervision a special authorised group must be composed of representatives of the coalition and also the opposition. It is therefore a special commission requiring the participation of the coalition and also the opposition. Without cooperation, it is not possible to establish civilian control over security and intelligence services. There are differences from the other committees, and I have already mentioned that the members here are loved by all Members. Compared to other committees and commissions also set up by the National Assembly, the Group of Members shall be decided entirely autonomously by which Member is to be appointed as an individual committee. If you remember what a week ago we adopted a decree where we cut down the composition of committees and commissions and we were able to propose individual members to these committees and committees autonomously. However, the Commission’s role in the supervision of security and intelligence services is to ensure that all members are voted on and that 46 votes are required for the election. The previous parliamentary practice was that there has always been a vote on this committee in the package, but if you read carefully the law on the appointment of this commission, I do not think there are any obstacles to not voting on each individual member individually. Of course, this does not mean that the coalition can determine which member of the opposition will participate in this committee, because there is another provision, which is that the majority of the opposition must have in this committee. So if an opposition party does not wish to propose another candidate, then the following can happen – that after individual votes we will reach a number of members of the Security and Intelligence Supervisory Commission, but this relationship will not be such that the opposition has a majority in this committee and there will be a blockade again. It seems important to me that we overcome this blockade, which is now taking place in just two votes, to put together as soon as possible the Commission for the Control of Security and Intelligence Services and to start with civilian supervision of services that can look into our communications every day, to follow us and do other things if we do not control them and not look at them under their fingertips.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u5	Mr Jani Möderndorfer is the Allied Alliance Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u6	Good day to you all! It appears that this point in the MVK will also stand in exactly the same place as the previous extraordinary meeting. I'm afraid there's not going to be a profit out of it, especially because nothing has really changed since then. In addition to having a new procedure, we call on the President of the National Assembly to whom all parties have legitimately proposed their candidates or candidates. What, though, is really something that we cannot support in our parliamentary group? We cannot support what we have been repeating all the time that someone who is subject to different procedures and, as such, has the possibility of exercising control over the operation of these services can, after all, find themselves in certain hearings, which is really controversial. Today, we will probably listen to this for a long time. I have already mentioned this in the previous debate, and I have made it very clear what kind of law it is that prevents such a thing from happening. But there's no listening to this connection. In view of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, which provides that conflicts of interest are the circumstances in which the private interest of an official influences or creates the appearance of having an impact on the impartial and objective performance of his public tasks. And in the case of Mr Janez Janša, this is a typical case of conflict of interest. This law is simple when we all work together, as if it does not apply to Members and Members of Parliament. That is why I believe, I also call for this debate to be as brief as possible during today's extraordinary session, for in any case it will be infertile. We are already predicting that we will not support the proposal, such as it is. However, the parliamentary group has tabled in the legislative procedure a change to the law, whereby we are also currently holding elections or voting for this commission, which would change the procedure mainly in the part where we vote, as the law commands that we first vote on the entire commission. If this fails in the first attempt, of course we vote individually. This proposal, I believe that if it is adopted, it will also solve all these dilemmas. The issues surrounding this or the opposition or position are equally represented, such as the meaning of the commission itself, and this is that the opposition has a majority in this committee, but it is always possible to resolve and propose an appropriate solution in the process itself in order to ensure such a way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u7	The word is given by the Group of the Mir Cerar Party, for her by Dr Simon Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u8	Dear President, the well-respected choir! In the SMC Group of Members, we would like to point out something commonly known, facts relating to parliamentary oversight of the functioning of intelligence and security services. A fully established and responsiblely implemented system of parliamentary control over the functioning of these services is and must be an integral part of every democratic country, both substantive and institutional. By the nature of the work of such a parliamentary commission, they carry out an extremely important and highly sensitive task of overseeing the activities of the security and intelligence activities of the executive branch. Compared to other parliamentary bodies, such committees are controlled by the nature of their powers and work, and are therefore partly different and specific. There is such a practice in Slovenia as well. Until the fourth meeting of the National Assembly, the Commission was regulated by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and then by the Law on Parliamentary Oversight of Intelligence and Security Services, adopted in 2003 and supplemented in 2007. The latter is justified in the light of the protection of the highly sensitive competences of the Commission itself and of the simultaneous protection against its potential abuse of jurisdiction. The President, Vice-President and members of the Commission shall be elected by the Assembly by a majority of the votes of all Members. Just to be undeniable, we are talking about an absolute majority of 46 votes out of 90, which, for example, a candidate for Prime Minister must receive for his election by Parliament. Next. As a result of legal powers, the Commission shall monitor security and intelligence activities and ways in which the Executive Branch of the Authority acquires security and intelligence data. Moreover, no other member of the Commission may replace an absent member. The sessions of the Commission shall be closed to the public. The Commission may not decide either at the correspondence meeting. The Slovenian system of surveillance of security and intelligence services is therefore adequately and responsibly restricted. With a view to the comprehensive protection of the rights and fundamental freedoms of its citizens and citizens, as well as of the executive branch of the authority under the supervision of this parliamentary commission, the system justifies us to the high-level conditions required for the establishment and further exercise of control of such activities. Such a responsible restrictive attitude towards the said Commission is also expected from the parliamentary groups when they are invited to propose their members and members. The appointed ones are expected to operate without any restrictions, and all members of the National Assembly, as well as the whole public, are expected to be trusted. The proposal to include in the work of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services a Member who is going through a prison sentence and is legally convicted of trespassing at the expense of the State shall be made impossible for both Members and Members of Parliament and citizens in order to be able to fully trust in the work of such a committee. The Commission shall, on its own, restrict the necessary maximum authority to be exercised in its work. Therefore, in the role of representatives of citizens and citizens and parliamentary supervisors of the functioning of the Authority, we cannot confirm today's collective vote for the composition of the Commission in the SMC Group, simply because of one of the proposed members whose possible action on this committee is assessed for the reasons already stated as unacceptable and restrictive for the smooth and credible functioning of this Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u9	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u10	Good-bye to all of you. The fact that we still do not have adequate control over the security and intelligence services is probably not proud of the official coalition and all their extensions in the opposition. On the contrary! It is a matter of violating the rule of law of this country, potentially violating human rights. With everything that is going on with this committee, in particular with the problem of disconcerting one member, it is clear, of course, that this is a matter of diversion. You all know it, or you should know it, according to the business you are doing now, and the function you have of having these services proven to have been abused in the past against the SDS, and obviously wanted them at that time, or still wanted them. We'll see what the vote is. Just as an example, one of the structures that was discovered just under control, unannounced control, which is now being prevented by a novel, has shown that a structure is being prepared to train some Muslim extremists for the Kosovo Liberation Army, it was then said. So that's what you have to say. What is perceiving, and what is worst about this story, is that from your words, from the words of the President of the Government yesterday and from the actions of the President of the National Assembly, follows a long-standing and repeated purpose of violating human rights, which is also happening at this moment. Why is one mandate, specifically Mr Janez Janša, problematic? It's just that we're just pouring manure all over again. If we wanted to, of course we'd have made that decision a long time ago. He's looking for an excuse. You know what Churchill said: "If you want to drag one thing down, set up a commission." But here, ladies and gentlemen, there is no legal dilemma. And that, for example, Dr. Cerar, who cannot be excused for being a true ignorant person, certainly knows damn well. And everyone else knows this very well because if you didn’t study it yourself, you were warned by the legal service of the National Assembly, which is why you told her not to trust her, and you went to set up a commission because you didn’t like her opinion. This is not a matter of any dilemma, but has already been judged by the Slovenian Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights. The opinion of both parties was crystal clear. If I quote him. In the opinion of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, and you know that it does not change that, as set out in Decision UI317/11 of 2011, it is stated that the third aspect of passive electoral rights is the right to be loved to be able to carry out the mandate in full, without substantive or time constraints, ladies and gentlemen. That was a judgment that was clear here. And what is even more interesting is that it has already been judged by the European Court of Human Rights, which is in several cases, and then, for example, Lykourezos v. Greece, Sadak v. Turkey, and so on, stated that Article 3 of Protocol No. 1 The Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which regulates the right to free elections, also contains the right to exercise the mandate obtained. And if you go to look, ladies and gentlemen, at this decision, I strongly recommend that you do not speak nonsense in here, then you will see that it is clear from them that any limitation of the mandate by content or length constitutes a direct violation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. And that's what you do. Starting from the first day you have a mandate, you are working until today, yesterday the purpose of continuing this exercise was expressed by the President of the Government, which is extremely sad, and should be of concern to everyone who is in charge of the rule of law, and today you say so too. And so we come up with an extremely unusual situation, [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] at this very moment with the rule of law and the rule of law. [[…]] Of course, even if you want, with ethics of officials who should first have legal knowledge or at least be taught before they open their mouths if they have some ethics and personal integrity. This means that, at this moment, they systematically and deliberately violate human rights, not just electoral rights, passive electoral rights, rights [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Mr Janez Janša, but also actively – to all those who have voted for him, more than 6,000 people, first the President of the National Assembly, who allows this parody, and, of course, then also the President of the Government, who obviously promotes all of this. [[…]] This is the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u11	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Ivan Hršak has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The National Assembly is at its first extraordinary session of 25. 8. 2014 addressed, inter alia, the proposal for a decision on the election of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. At that time, we voted on the decision to postpone the consideration of these points until the final decision of the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Among the candidates for members of this Commission was also proposed a person or a Member who is legally sentenced to prison and who is also currently on sentence. Therefore, the DeSUS Group also agreed to postpone this point until the decision on the status or mandate of this Member. Again three days later, at the second extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, we discussed a practically identical act. Once again, within the framework of the composition of the Commission, a Member has been proposed to serve as a member of the Committee, and our decision to such a decision has been negative. Today, September 19th, in the framework of the 3rd extraordinary session, we have the same act on the table. And I now repeat, among the members proposed for this committee, there is once again a proposed Member whose term of office has not yet been decided. Member, who is still being charged with the judicial judgment of the Slovenian Court, is a Member who is going to be held in prison. Why are Members and Members of the DeSUS Group still insisting on the same position as we have already presented in both previous sessions? Since the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services is not just the ordinary working body of the National Assembly. It is a commission whose competence relates to the control and treatment of the most confidential and public data of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, the legislation also provides for its composition to be determined by an absolute majority of Members, i.e. 46 votes are required for the election. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that we cannot and must not elect a legally convicted member to remain in prison. It is true, however, that we will have to take a decision as soon as possible on his status as a Member of the National Assembly. To this end, a special expert committee has already been appointed to which all parliamentary groups participating in the Mandate-Electorial Commission could propose after one member. The delegation of which is a member shall also be the subject of this examination. As far as we are aware, this committee has already met and is expected to give its expert opinion as soon as possible. On this basis, Members and Members will be able to decide on further steps. The DeSUS Group will act in the same way as before. We will vote against the proposed decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u13	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Anita Kolesh. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u14	Katich. Hello, Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, everyone else is here! We will not support the decision on the election of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services in the Group of Social Democrats. We are aware that this commission must be set up, but this does not mean that we should be interested in who will perform the tasks in it. The fact is, as a member of the committee mentioned above, there is also a proposal for a Member who is currently in prison. Therefore, in our view, it is not right for such a person to perform such sensitive tasks as the supervision of the work of the intelligence and security services. As a result, we have only two bad decisions ahead of us. And I will therefore support the Social Democrats less poorly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u15	The text is given by the United Left Group, for which Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u16	Mr. President, dear colleagues, colleagues, comrades, comrades! In fact, our position remains unchanged from the first extraordinary session that we have discussed and will not repeat this position too much. Ambassador Janez Ivan Janša is legally sentenced to a term of imprisonment longer than six months, and that is a fact. If we go to Article 9 of the Law on Members, I think we should put a little more emphasis on it, and obviously we will have to do it again now. The third indent states: "If he is sentenced by a judicial judgment to a non-conditional term of imprisonment longer than six months, the Member shall terminate the term of office." Second paragraph: "The Member shall terminate the term of office from the date on which the National Assembly finds that the reasons referred to in the preceding paragraph have arisen." I think these are the reasons that have arisen and that it is only a matter of this national council to find out that these reasons have arisen. We've got one situation here like Poe's stolen letter when it's in everyone's eyes, but no one sees it. Or with some other metaphor, maybe closer to someone else, "They have eyes to see, but they don't see." This legal fiction could have been in force before the mandate was approved, but not now. Once the Mandate-Election Commission and the National Assembly have also found that the conditions for the termination of the mandate have been met, the term of office of the Member will end. Although the National Assembly will have the opportunity to allow the Member to exercise, this is the third paragraph of Article 9, but we do not see a particular reason for this. It is therefore pointless to appoint someone to the committee who will not be able to carry out this work and will complicate the follow-up of this commission, because a new member will have to be appointed and so on, because he will no longer be a Member. We have a number of other reservations about Mr Janša's character and work, which are also well known to the public and will not be repeated and highlighted in particular now. That would be enough to reject this decision, which is now on the agenda. In this case, there are no formal reasons to support it, so we will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u17	We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and Members on the proposal for a decision. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u18	Dear colleagues and colleagues! When I listen to all these opinions, I feel like we just don't hear each other out. We are here today talking about how to establish parliamentary oversight of intelligence services, and the debate is always about the mandate of Janez Janša. And I have an ever-increasing feeling that it is not in this Chamber – except for us in New Slovenia, there is no interest in establishing civil control over intelligence and security services. And that this fight that we are going to or that you are going to be going through with the establishment of this commission is being misused only for that or that you are using it to prove to each other what John Janša’s mandate is. So those of you who are opposed to this whole thing are simply saying that you think that Janez Janša should not be sitting in Parliament. Those who propose obviously think that they should be in Parliament. That the fears that you are stressing in your views are that how the presence of Mr Janez Janš could interfere with the work of the Commission and so on. Only two details that are very important, and perhaps those that have not yet been on this committee, are unknown to you. Firstly, this Commission can only be supervised provided that the Supervisory Commission is composed of representatives of the coalition and the opposition. If the members of the coalition consider that Mr Janez Janša is inappropriate to go to some police control, they could simply prevent this by not proposing to their supervisory group member, and this supervisory group could not exercise control. So the coalition, you have a hand over that if you want, you can prevent Mr. Janša from exercising any control. But it doesn't even matter that much. What's more important is the next. Official document, I'm not talking about. If supervised services such as the police, Owls and the military intelligence and security services estimate that an individual who comes into control could jeopardize their work because he is in some process, they may refuse to do so. See, on 25 March 2010, the police specifically proposed to suspend the exercise of control by the Commission on the basis of Article 27 of the Law on Parliamentary Control, since he was a member of this committee, Mr Jelinčič, who has the status of a suspect in a matter they wanted to oversee. Did you listen well? So all that I have just said is that if a Member is troubled and is in the process, he cannot control those services that control him. This is the first thing to be aware of. Secondly, even you have a political opportunity to prevent a member of the opposition from taking control of a job. So all these fears that you are exposing in your views are unnecessary. And I'm really wondering why such a resistance to the establishment of this commission would be if you had every opportunity to prevent someone's control if they had the chance to prevent it. I just don't understand your arguments. The only thing I understand is that you are using this vote to prove to the public how you feel about the mandate of a Member. But that's not right. That's not right! We should establish parliamentary civilian oversight of intelligence and security services, set up this commission, and then it is up to Parliament to decide what it will do and what it will do about the mandate of Janez Janša. It is not fair, however, to the State, nor to the National Assembly, that you are now using these circumstances to prevent the establishment of civilian control over intelligence and security services. And I really ask you, a respected coalition or those you have announced, some of the opposition, that you will not support the establishment of this commission to consider whether it is wise. I know that you have made a lot of arrangements in the parliamentary groups, but I also believe in your common sense, that these arguments and discussions in the National Assembly still consider that we do not speak there in three days, empty, and that anyone else may be persuaded by any clever argument. I think I've made at least two very valid arguments today to eliminate all your fears, to finally set up this committee. I really ask once again that we do this for the sake of the state and for the citizens and citizens who may be in unpleasant circumstances because we Members do not do our job and do not exercise civil control over intelligence and security services.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u19	Mr. Jože Tanko, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Just a few minutes ago, they submitted an opinion on the subject of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. At 10:22 a.m., this was filed. If the dates hold, you received this letter yesterday. I think it's extremely unusual that you didn't even warn us when you started the session and this item on the agenda. It is extremely unusual for the President of the National Assembly to start the agenda by concealing the document of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly which he received at the time. He was addressed to you personally. You proposed for him. And, Mr President, I think that in this way talking about a higher political culture, as has been said in this post-election and electoral campaign period, is unworthy because you are doing something completely different. It's completely different. And given that, in my view, this opinion speaks quickly differently than some of the views expressed here by the Members, I propose that you set the time or suspension of the meeting so that Members can at least read this opinion in peace. I suggest you give us half an hour to study this, see how we're going to lead the debate. Once again, Mr President, you are first among us to receive an opinion on your request from the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly on the agenda item you started before you shared it and you probably expected it to go beyond the parliamentary groups and today's decision to do so is inappropriate for the status of the President of the National Assembly. I suggest a half break. Thank you very much. At least I'm asking.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u21	If I respond to this procedural request. First time. If I wanted to cover this matter up, I wouldn't have sent it forward because it was addressed to me. Second thing. What is in this procedural opinion is that it only notes what has always been said that it is only possible to vote on this case entirely, i.e. as a package. So that you can all get to know this opinion, I give you half a break or a break. We're back in ten in eleven.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u22	We continue with the interrupted agenda. Mr Jan Mahnic SDS has the floor to prepare Mrs Eva Irgl SDS. Procedural? Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u23	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. It is usually given to the sending group that requested a suspension, including three minutes to clarify the reasons and also any other circumstances. This document, which was filed at 10.22 p.m., was reviewed after the beginning of the agenda item to which it relates. In this opinion, we have found that the Legislative and Legal Service does not, in fact, have any basis for what representatives of certain parliamentary groups have been talking about in the positions of the groups of Members. There's absolutely no basis. The National Assembly must decide on the Commission as a whole. He just has to take a proposal. I would also point out that, just before the time before, the first time that you rejected this proposal, I called on the President of the National Assembly to send a new call to the parliamentary groups to propose members, to write down constitutional, legal or business restrictions on why some Members could not perform their functions in the Commission for Security Intelligence. I take it that the President of the National Assembly did not make any restrictions in this call. This can be done by all those who have received this letter as I have, and you can see that any Member may be a candidate for the function of the Commission for the supervision of Security and Intelligence Services, or by Tanko, Moon, Lipicer, also Brglez, or whatever else. From this debate of the parliamentary groups, which has been here, we note only one thing that only Janez Janša must not serve as a member of the Security and Intelligence Supervisory Commission. Just Janez Janša. While you are making this argument, some of you are citing or have been told facts that are not true. Nor does he hold to the fact that he was convicted of trespassing at the expense of the State. There is no such thing in any judgment. No amount, no fact, no date, no proof, nothing. I find that all those who speak of this issue act unconstitutionally, illegally, illegally, illegally, but that you use some other standards that are not written anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u24	I take it that you have used the procedural option to speak about what you would not otherwise have done under the rules of procedure, because it would actually be the interruption that comes before the decision itself. Then there's an explanation of three minutes. But it doesn't even matter. I think it's important that we continue with just the sitting. Now he has the floor, as I said before, Mr. Please? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u25	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I don't want to get involved with these procedural proposals because I don't think it's right. But I am obliged to point out what has been submitted – and we are concealed from the record of the National Assembly, that it is different from what some leaders of the parliamentary groups say on behalf of the parliamentary groups. If you are not in a position to give all the parliamentary groups adequate access to the Council's materials, that is to say that some of you know more at the same point from the materials of the same house we are in, and you are concealing things from us, then I have already told you that this is inappropriate bias. If the president of the National Assembly does this, it's even more unfair. And it seems to me, Mr President, that the work of the parliamentary groups in this mandate is not taken care of as a person would expect from what you have predicted that the work will be right, that we will be equal to the Group of Members, that we will be equal and so on. Of course, in the context of the votes we have. The standards you're using are beyond what you're saying. In your position, you speak of charges against one of the Members. I would expect all parliamentary groups and the President of the National Assembly, as well as those who will vote today to base their decision on the article of the Constitution, to rely on article of the law and Article of the Rules of Procedure. And that would be credible. However, if you are voting on the basis of your feelings, this is not the case in the rules of procedure. That's not in the rules of procedure. And just for the end, Mr. President. I expect you to ensure that the members of the groups will receive the materials related to the agenda item in due time, not 10 minutes after the start of the agenda item, but, appropriately, that the materials you have available and requested them, and that the services have made them material related to the office of President and Vice-President, that is also the case with the groups of Members, and that this practice of working for the President, not for others, is terminated. You must provide us with all the materials available at the time of the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u26	Now the answer to that is your procedural. I must say, at the same time, all the parliamentary groups have acquired this material. There is no new element in this material that we would not have known from the discussions so far. It is simply that the practice of Parliament itself is that of interpreting the provision of the article itself and speaking of the fact that it is only possible to vote on this committee in a package. That's one. The other thing that is absolutely important is that the Commission has been voted on to win 46 votes. These are two key facts we cannot go through. As a result, it was not possible to write down in any way any conditions outside the framework of what the law itself says. But if I have to send another call, I'll probably add the article to which it relates. But it will not change what is happening in Parliament itself on this point. I now think that, after this reply, we can proceed with the debate. Mr. Jean Mahnič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! That Slovenia is the only country in the European Union that does not currently have control over security and intelligence services is no longer necessary to speak. We all know that now. That's what Europe knows. On Sunday, the juniors of the International Democratic Union adopted the view that Janez Janša was a political prisoner. I received quite a few calls from colleagues from Austria, Luxembourg, Croatia as well. I also mentioned this issue of how the intelligence and security services are with us, and they all said, "You really are no longer a normal country." You are obviously only a European country in a geographical sense, and in all other matters you are moving away from this. Do you imagine that Germany would be unsupervised by intelligence services? There they have a so-called G10 committee in the National Assembly or in Parliament, where Members have far greater powers, as regards the supervision of intelligence services than in Slovenia, because we like to compare ourselves with Germany, Austria, etc. But let's face it, the reason we don't set you up is not John Janša. The reason we don't set you up is because Janez Janša doesn't. The reason is the commission. I have proof of this here: a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on parliamentary control of intelligence and security services. One of the parliamentary groups proposed. It reads: "Unannounced inspection of facilities and premises referred to in Article 19, paragraphs 24 and 23 and unannounced access to documents, other materials and data... etc. The Commission must carry out exceptional controls where at least one third of the members so request in writing. This written explanation shall contain, supervised service or operator and electronic communications, premises or location where control will take place and facilities and documents, other material and data to be monitored. The purpose of surveillance. Provided a time frame for a possible annex. Yeah, well, what kind of unannounced control is this if you tell me where you're going, when you're going, and what are you going to go for? What unannounced surveillance is this? Are you kidding? What unannounced surveillance is if you say, "I'll come to you tomorrow." Do you imagine that the inspection will send you to the inn, the restaurant, anywhere, "but tomorrow we'll come and see you, put all your stuff away because otherwise it won't be okay". Is this an unannounced tour? I really don't know where we're going. But here's the other thing. Here comes the so-called Black October for Mr Zemlaric, for Mr Gorence, etc., when some tasks were to come from abroad. And apparently Owl is doing something in this area. I can even hear, from unofficial sources, that the archives that, during the government of Janez Janša Sova, the archives of the former Udba, were to be carried back to the archives of Slovenia. Is that true, and is that why this law is proposed? Is that true and is that the reason? Because obviously you're just taking Janez Jansho as an excuse. I know that you did not propose this law from the SMC, but another party from the so-called opposition suggested it. But, by the way, most of the opposition won't be on this committee. We know very well how one opposition party votes. In fact, you'll have most of it, so you don't have to be afraid of it. But it's obvious that this committee is one big problem. And I'm asking you, you probably noticed yesterday that the decision regarding Janez Janša will soon be known. Then what's the reason? Let us say that either they forgive or return, they will probably not allow the matter to go forward to the Constitutional Court or even to the European Court, where the matter will fall. They're not going to be able to afford that kind of embarrassment. But then what? Then what's the excuse? And the other thing. We have a commission. What is this committee doing? We've been deciding that for two months. How will you run the government if you simply ask a question where you have a two-thirds majority you cannot decide. How are you going to run this country? I don't know, well, at least we could use this committee to advise you on how to apply for municipal elections because I hear you have major problems with that. Maybe you did, given the way you're experts, I'm not surprised the leaves fall. You know, Owl is a sensitive thing. Here I have some things about Slovenian-Bosnian, extreme Islam, what I said yesterday. Islamic radicalism is a serious problem, and that will be a problem. The debate will have to be held, but we do not even know what is going on in this area because there is no control. So I appeal [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u28	Before I give the floor forward, I must point out that the amendment of the law is not the subject of this debate, but in this debate we are only discussing the proposal for a decision on the election of the President, the Vice-President and a member of the Intelligence and Security Services Committee, and I would like to follow these agendas further. Mrs Eva Irgle, SDS, has the floor. Let's get Dr. Jones ready. Franz Duck, United Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u29	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Clearly, some in this hall need to be refreshed. Mr. Janez Janša was elected to the National Assembly as we all did in the early elections. He then received a mandate from the Mandate-Electorial Commission, together with the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, who, by the way, a doctor of law and also the entire SMC group subsequently confirmed the mandate. This happened again at a meeting of the National Assembly, which means that John Janša’s mandate became indisputable. Undisputed as any of us sitting here. Nevertheless, you are always in trouble with this mandate and you want to take it away from it. And with all the possible tricks and legal tricks. That's what the mag said. Matovž Krivic. With all the legal and all the other tricks. But since that is not enough for you, you have now decided that Mr Janez Janša, even though he can do his job as we all can, should not do this work in at least one of the committees. Mr Janez Janša is a member or a member of three committees: the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Commission on Public Finance Control and the Commission on Security and Intelligence Control. You don't have any problems with the first two, and the last one is causing you huge problems. Why? For this reason, you say, because he was legally convicted, although before that all of you, without any other arguments, confirmed his mandate. The situation of Janez Janša was also noted by voters who gave him more than 6,000 votes, says the situation here is clear. Secondly, John Janša was not to sit on this committee because he was supposed to be in some proceedings, at least as Mr Möderndorfer says, I do not know where he got this information. That means he's supposed to be under surveillance to be bugged. No one sitting on this committee can know whether he is being monitored or listened to, except of course Dr. Duck, who explained to us some time ago that he is being watched, listened to and so on. But Mr. Duck will still be a member of this commission. So there's no problem here. I must say, that is not an argument. When I was elected as a member of the National Assembly for the first time, that was in 2004, I remember that we also had the Commission to oversee the intelligence and security services, only that this Commission was working and actually exercising control over these authorities. But there was Mr. Victory Jelinčič sitting on that committee. Mr Wingo Jelinčič exercised control over security and intelligence services, but later it was found that security and intelligence services were obviously controlling him, listening to him, controlling him and so on. But there was no problem. The Commission has worked normally and also Mr Victory Jelinčič has continued to work. And I wonder if any of you lawyers are sitting here today in Mira Cerar's party, when he said something about the subject. Nobody. No one was interested in that. That is why I say that in this case it is a matter of political conduct, including particularly political accounting with one of the Members, specifically with Mr Janez Janša. I'm not going to say it's a bollocks act, as the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, said yesterday. But, dear colleagues, especially those sitting in Mira Cerar's client, you have come to power with the thesis that you will introduce some new, high ethical, also political standards. But you're working against the constitution, against the laws, against the basic fundamental principles that exist in this country. And here I see the key problem. And that's the problem. It's no problem, Janez Janša, because he was elected just like all of us in this national assembly. And you confirmed his mandate. I will personally support this committee because I am convinced that the State of Slovenia must have a Commission for the supervision of security and intelligence services in this case, because security and intelligence services cannot be without supervision. And that is how I expect others, especially those who speak of the functioning of the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u30	The word is from Dr. Franz Duck, United Left. Get Dr. Vinko Gorenak ready, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u31	Thank you for your word. I'll be very brief. Comrades and comrades! Comrade Franz Trček has no problem if he is not and will not be a member of this commission. I give up this debate because at least five times we have heard arguments from all sides. However, my fellow President, I would like to ask that he conducts this meeting a little more proactively and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because, as I see, the agenda item is not Janez Ivan Janša. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u32	The word is from Dr. Vinko Gorenak, SDS. Get Mr. Tomaž Lisec ready, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Let me first express my joy to see Mrs Kustec Lipicer, because she is here for the first time when I am discussing her. And I'm going to start where at this point in the agenda, I think she's already gone over the limit. I also expected you, President of the National Assembly, to respond. I mean, I think she committed a crime. And when you do this to me, what you did to Mr. Janša, I will sue you, I can tell you in advance. You said he was a suspect of trespassing at the expense of the citizens. So he put something in his pocket at the expense of the citizens. Read your records and you'll see. When you do this to me, we'll meet in court, that's what I can tell you. John Janša is not a suspect of any crime, nor was he convicted of a crime, as you said. Read your judgment! You know, it's easy to tell students, but Parliament needs to be a little more responsible when it comes to choice of words. That's another thing. Mr Möderndorfer, 701 votes and your entire parliamentary group of 3,000 and a few votes. You're not a preacher, are you? You can go to the Ljubljana diocese. Maybe they'll take you. And I can't stand it here, and I can't stand the words you said. For you said, "Someone who is in the process cannot cooperate." Yeah, great! What kind of procedures is this person in? What do you have to do with the police to know that? Like what? I was a minister there, and I don't have the kind of insights you're going. The next thing you have to say about it is this. No member of the commission – none, from the first to the last, you know this very well – knows at this point whether he is being supervised. Nobody. And so any person can find himself in a conflict of interest, every person. But you insist on your own. Again, I call on Mrs Lipicer to state on behalf of her parliamentary group which member of the Constitution, the law, the sub-legislative act or the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly makes it impossible to work in this committee for a specific member of Parliament, that is, Janez Janša. What article? You're a state of law, aren't you? You've won the election in the state of law, and now, for God's sake, leave out three articles or at least one! There is also a lawyer, a constitutional lawyer or a lawyer, whatever the doctor of science, to help you! Tell me which article! You're sworn to the state of law. Or the rule is that when the arguments run out, then – what? Then what is behind the rule of law and the rule of law? I don't know what. Your political criteria. So your politics, which is not supposed to go, as the Prime Minister of the government said yesterday. You called for the opposition to participate yesterday and so on. Yeah, for God's sake, isn't that it? At the same time, you are preventing the establishment of both the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission, boycotting the work of the other two supervisory institutions, namely the Commission for Public Finance Control and the Commission for Petitions. Yeah, then who's causing trouble here in the National Assembly? And second. You know that those of you who have received the least votes – all four of you, get together, and you will see that this is 3 000 200 and a few votes – you are the loudest today and you are suggesting I don't know everything: the withdrawal of the mandate and the non-cooperation on this committee and I don't know what it is. Where'd you get your moral rights? You don't have those moral rights. Of course, you can do this and propose and even succeed for the reason that you are supported by the largest party in this House. This is the problem and the problem is that this largest party has won elections at the expense of the words 'the rule of law, 'equality before the law' and so on. Now that we are in Parliament and when you run the government, of course, the rule of law applies to one another and the rule of law no longer applies to the other. Mrs. Kustecheva, I don't know, I hope you'll answer me. I hope you'll answer me, which article of his marriage. But if you're going to say that you think it's not real, it's politics, not politics. Tell me which article, please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor to prepare Mrs Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u35	Vice President, thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! I think the State Election Commission has found, and we have unanimously confirmed that the mandate of all of us 90 Members is undeniable. The mandate of all 90 Members. All of them, including John Janša. Today we are hearing that it is wrong, it is pointless, there is no confidence in the appointment of Mr Janez Janš in one of the working bodies of this national assembly. There's no trust. Today I read in Del that there is no confidence in the government of the Mir Cerar Party. Yet, we still have a government or government of about 12, 13 hours. But the appointment of a government was in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the laws, in accordance with the Constitution. The same is true of the Rules of Procedure, the Laws and the Constitution that John Janša may be a member of this commission. It's exactly the same thing. But on behalf of the rule of law – completely different vats: for our own – the rule of law, what we say, and for your country is also the rule of law, which is a little over the rules, past the laws and past the constitution. The Prime Minister of the Government said "my opinion" yesterday, and he stood up to the constitution. My opinion is that Janez Janša is an easy member, but unfortunately I am not the constitutional lawyer that Mr Miro Cerar thinks I am. Moreover, on behalf of this rule of law, an MEP, who has been unanimously confirmed by our mandate, is attempting to take up the mandate of a Member of Parliament and the mandate of membership in this committee. And since you don't have any legal mechanisms, you're hiding behind some professional legal committee that's gonna figure that out. We know what experts are like on this committee! Mr Ciril Ribičič – Open up a little Google, see what legal authority he has and what political functions he has dealt with. Legal authority? Come on, please! In short, if you do not confirm this commission today, respected and respected, you will confirm exactly what you did not advocate in the pre-election period. You said it was a legal, legal, legal state. Today, however, the rule of law is: one is a word and the other is an act. I have a feeling that in such matters as today's, the progeny of some, I will hope to speak boldly, the brutal rule of law of your own accord, which, through political decisions past the rules, passes the laws, wishes to withdraw the opposition, which, of course, is too loud; but it is best to do so by giving the President of this party political headship. The Supreme Court – we know how it is politically incriminated. We got a Justice Minister full of legal packs, full of political packs, and yesterday there was no problem that you pressed the button and also, like all the other ministers, confirmed it. Of course, I think that Mr Janez Janša has the ultimate competence to be a member of this committee, probably unlike many others. And all those who don't think they have the authority, I'm asking if we're all competent for all the boards. Personally, I think that, with all our respect, everyone can be asked that there is probably something missing from a number of members of the committee, but I have no problem talking, discussing and voting for or against. And why is it not disputed for you, for whom the membership of Mr Janez Janša is at issue, that he is a member of the Foreign Policy Committee? You know, you could sit in a delegation somewhere abroad and deal with some unknown, very important foreign diplomats, statesmen in an unknown place, an unknown time, an unknown deal. We'd have an international scandal. We wouldn't have anything tangible. But this is not disputed for you, but it is disputed that you should perform only one part of your mission, which we have all confirmed to him. In short, respectable, we are becoming evident by the bewildering of a coalition that is hidden behind the name of the rule of law, without the control of security and intelligence services, and, respectable, those who today will decide as you have intended, be aware that this also undermines the legal security of the state. You are ruining the legal security of the country to which you have so God-damnedly found yourself and said: the rule of law. You're also breaking it down today with pressure on it. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Mrs Jelka Godec has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u37	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Colleagues and colleagues! You all know that history cannot be undone, corrected, replaced, however, by a great number of votes, you all know that, and was chosen with the full awareness of the electorate, for everyone knew that he was legally condemned at that time. You, too, dear Members of the SMC and everyone else, have been elected, and if your voters have voted with full consciousness, which I now strongly doubt, it is right that you begin to fulfil your high moral words on high ethical principles. Look, nobody talked about this before the elections; Jansha was on the candidate list, confirmed and so on. At that time, you likely thought that he would not be elected or that you had a strong hope. From that place, Mrs Lipicer Kustec, Head of the SMC Group, told us today the brutal power of your absolute majority. Look, you won't be able to squeeze your heads into the sand all the time, like now in the papers, at least it's appropriate to look at the speaker who talked you into it, but today, obviously, you have very interesting papers ahead of you. See, you have said that we must all absolutely trust the members of the Commission; even more, citizens must absolutely trust the members of the Commission. Do you have complete or absolute confidence in the Legislative and Legal Service? No, you do not trust, because you have established the independence of a commission of lawyers, which you obviously absolutely trust with them; that is, lawyers who will decide on the mandate of John Janša, and of course all of you know it well. Mr Aleš Zalar, who, for example, gave support to the applicant Fischer, who had previously persecuted people for political expression, then Dino Bauk, a lawyer of the rebels, then here is Franz Grad, who, for example, when he gave up his work at the Constitutional Court in 2007, said something before and said "... but I am not lying down or qualified to work on specific matters where the rules already known are applied, requires a different profile of a lawyer than I am. I'm used to dealing with abstract things. "And, say, Mr. Ribičič, who has Bob in 2010, who said, "If I make a joke, I would say that sometimes with lots I would get a better composition of the state authorities than we would get by the elections." I think that this bean of years would still be present today in the same composition as I see it on the right-hand side. We added Mr. Kučan because he's 4. 9. 2014 said: "Too many efforts have been made by the family of Slovenians in their efforts to leave Slovenia to political pauperism, mockery from the institutions of the country, arrogantness, cynicism and irresponsible behaviour." Who he was talking about, I think you understand everything that's been going on today and what's been going on in the last few days. And you trust these people. Look, I don't trust anyone, not all the members of the committee, but I do believe that these members are qualified enough not to do anything stupid. Look, we've already heard about the conflict of interest today that we can find everyone or everyone who is on the committee in a conflict of interest, Mr Trček is one way or another, but that is not what Mr Möderndorfer is talking about. See, the mandate is not disputed and this is not an abstract matter, this is a concrete matter and also a decision on the mandate, the decision-making of the Commission is a concrete matter. I suggest you, gentlemen and ladies in the SMC, say something about this. You don't even discuss it, you don't have an opinion. Many of you are lawyers, many of whom I think you are thinking with your head – that's what you said yesterday – but there is no debate. No, for you so-called dirty work is done by others. So I will say, the SDS Group is an independent parliamentary group and we can propose to the Commission anyone and think with our heads. But now you want us to stop thinking with our heads and propose to the committee someone who is not Janez Janša, someone who will be of your own volition. Yeah, that's not working out. That's not gonna work. You're asking us to change someone. It's not working. So I really ask you to confirm this committee today, as we have all heard, it is necessary and, I don't know, on the two committees of Janša, it is no shame that it is in foreign policy. Aren't you afraid he'll embarrass you in Europe or somewhere else? I guess not. I don't get it together: two committees – okay, one commission doesn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u38	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ange Logar, get Mr. Andrej Chuš ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Chairman. I have here before me a document of the National Assembly, namely the Decision on the election of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Commission for the supervision of the intelligence and security services. He's got a date of 22. 8. This document contains Logar Anže, a very urgent label. 22. 8. - Very urgent. Today we're a month later. In a government coalition that swears on the rule of law, we still do not have high moral, ethical standards and these commissions! What should we write today: very, very urgent? And next time we're going to discuss the same thing, so many "greens" it's going to take a little more stickers on these documents. Commission What is the purpose of the commission? My colleague Mahnic has already explained that we are the only country in the European Union that has no control over security intelligence services. Today you say that we must not set up this commission or confirm this commission because we do not agree with the composition. So you're becoming political tycoons. You know what the economic tycoons said? We need to have supervisory councils that have a composition that will suit the management of an individual company. And what happened to the tycoons today? Those with supervisors who want to end up at the bottom sooner or later. I wonder where the government majority takes the right to decide what individual parties should propose, especially when the legal basis allows them to propose their candidates. Finally, the parties are to propose their people according to the key laid down in the regulations, laws and other documents. The President of Parliament, who is unfortunately not here at this time, is also holding back the documents that speak about the matters that we are discussing in this High Council, including the opposition's proposal for the Commission to oversee the intelligence and security services. He says the opposition should replace the proposal, and we will support it. I can see that my words have come across fertile ground and there is a President of the National Assembly among us, so I can direct my remarks to him. Now, watch out. When it came to another proposal, for the proposal of the Vice-President of the National Assembly, there were media reports or reports of Desus's proposal, that their proposal was, at a time, a difficult time, lashing out priests and working for the security intelligence service of another system, for a repressive body that violated human rights. And you know what the president of the National Assembly responded to these allegations — that he could not get involved in the proposals of the parliamentary groups. Double morality: once like that, another time. And Mr Hršak, who said very boldly and steeply about this speaker: "We cannot, we cannot choose such a composition." [[advertising from the hall]] I said, I said, you have to listen. He had absolutely no say against his proposal for the same person when we spoke about the Vice-President of the National Assembly. Look, colleague Kustec Lipicer, here you said that citizens must have full confidence in the monitoring committee. Do you think that fellow Marian Dolinsch, who most people don't even know, is full of trust?Oh, my God! They don't know him, because we hardly know him, except in Zagorje, the other fellow Members have never heard him speak before or rarely spoken. Or Mr. Duck, at least he's recognized, but [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u40	Mag. Angie Logar, please stick to the agenda in the future. You don't discuss everyone else, we're talking about a specific list and nothing else. Mr. Andrej Couch, SDS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u41	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Yes, this is the second time we are discussing a committee for the supervision of security intelligence services, the second time we have before us a proposal for the composition of that commission, for one reason only, perhaps two. Above all, the reason is that the ruling party, Mir Cerar, is delaying the appointment of this commission. Because of the operation and voting of the coalition with the Party of Mir Cerar, we are now in a state of conscious violation of all applicable legislation in the Republic of Slovenia, including in the field of security intelligence control. Kolga Mahnic said that this parliamentary oversight of security intelligence services in Slovenia is quite mild compared to the practices of some other countries. Somehow I can't understand why this violation of the law, the failure to respect the law, the way you talk about the rule of law, the respect for the law, and, of course, why it's stalling. I am surprised by all the words of the President of the Government of Dr Cerar, when we have been hearing in our heads for several months: morality, ethics, the rule of law; and now his client is in violation of all that she has said. And the silence of the Mir Cerar Party Group confirms all of this today that you are conscious of your deceptions and somehow all the people see what your party really is. But I also have the feeling that the entire government coalition is waiting for 30 September 2014 when the Supreme Court will finally decide the case of Patrio or the Janez Janša case, five days before the local elections. What a coincidence! There are no coincidences in politics. I also say it is no coincidence that three weeks before the state-run elections, the leader of the opposition will be closed. This mounted process, Patria, has in fact already affected several elections, in the State elections 2008, 2011, 2014, influenced two European elections – in 2009, 2014 – and influenced the 2010 local elections, and look at the fraction, it will affect one more. Apparently, you've had trouble putting your papers on the municipal electoral commission or you don't have any programs. Janez Janša received 6 thousand 116 votes in the 2014 elections in the National Assembly, and I am surprised today at all the moralization and intelligence of the Alenka Bratušek Group, all four of whom received 3 thousand 799 votes together. It's a custom commentator. When the National Election Commission was set up, it established or confirmed all 90 mandates and also stressed that none of the mandates was disputed. That is why all of you, respected colleagues and colleagues, I really urge, urgently and as soon as possible, we need control of the security intelligence services already in order to comply with the legislation – about what you are talking about every session every day. I am a legalist myself, and I will certainly support the Commission's proposal. In the end, we must face one fact: the opposition in this committee will not have a majority. We can see that Dr Cerar cleverly left several clients in the opposition to bully the work of these investigative commissions, including the supervisory ones, because you have a two-thirds majority at the end. Because if we didn't agree on anything, then Alenka Bratusek probably wouldn't be on the way to a well-paid European Commissioner's job in Brussels. But since you saw Miro Cerar sitting down yesterday, he was quiet, and he didn't say anything, or that he wouldn't get involved. Don't mess with us or think of us as stupid, please! Mir Cerar's party, I'm really asking you what kind of signal we're sending to the Slovenes and to the Slovenes if you don't respect the rule of law yourself, if you don't respect the laws. Then why do you expect others to do this? And what are the motives for delaying the appointment of a Security Intelligence Committee? Is it true that the Udbov archives are being moved from the Republic of Slovenia Archive to the premises of the Owl? Are former criminals who now set up a party for four years afraid of the truth coming to the public? Are you helping to protect your own? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u42	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, SDS, has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Andrej Shircelj, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u43	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Yesterday, we heard a lot about terminology and behaviour in Slovenian politics, which was no longer meant to be – childishness. Today, we are witnessing in this temple of democracy the greatest form of political pauperism, to be visited! Go for it! How far can you go? In her introductory address, Mrs Kustec Lipicer stressed the need to protect the fundamental rights of citizens and citizens. You're breaking them in here! They're being violated here by you and your parliamentary group, along with the coalition. Do you intend to settle with each minority in this way? Push it all the way! Look, I'm not gonna talk about ethics and morality, because I'm sick of those two words. But at least try to turn to your conscience. Let me remind you. Janez Janša was elected to this Parliament and his mandate was confirmed. The parliamentary group of the biggest opposition party has proposed it to the commission we are discussing today. And you simply decide that someone is not acceptable. Based on what? Based on what, I'm asking you? [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] What, I'm sorry, I'll fix it, of course. [[…]] Let me get on with it. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, it's important. Let me get on with it. You're being extremely unserious about your own responsibility. You don't hope to make any decisions. You want to take his term I would also laugh, but I think the citizens will cry when they hear it. [[…]] You set up a five-member commission to pay for the hour, and in two months she was able to meet only once to decide on the mandate of Janez Janša. Why don't you hope to do it yourself? Take this mandate away from him, and let's move on so you won't tell us that we're constantly dealing with Janez Janša's mandate! And now you're going further. It is not yet acceptable on the committee, which is important not only for the security of Slovenia, but as you may have heard from our colleague, we are also talking about greater security. I hope that we will not miss out on things that may have a much more decisive impact on the lives of citizens than you can imagine today. In order to make it easier for you not to make your own decisions again, because you do not hope for them, I propose a new commission. We're spending a little more tax money. In order not to go any further, I propose to you the names: Loize Ude – an excellent legal expert, Ljubo Bavcon – even better, and you will have additional votes in the opposition's part I propose Maša Kociper. Believe me, the decision is already known. I believe they will be able to write it down in a few days, so that the meter won't work too quickly on the plants – and the thing will be clear! You're not gonna put him on the committee! But you'll live with it! You will, because you will violate human rights and be elected to the temple of democracy, but this is not only a shame to me, but a sad and far-off journey. I still hope to live in the rule of law, because it once was, but the rule of law will no longer be with us.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u44	The word has magic. Andrej Shircelj, SDS, prepare Mr Jože Tanko, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I am trying to be quite rational in this Chamber, and I am now seeing some irrationality here, Mr President. You have convened this meeting and, of course, also set the agenda for this meeting. On this agenda you have also set up a commission to control anti-intelligence services and intelligence services, as well as a member of the Mir Cerar Party. On the other hand, we have a parliamentary group, and so on, which, against the establishment of this group, I understand at least this from the position expressed by the representative, Mrs Lipicer, at the beginning of this meeting. I don't see any rationality here. We are here talking about a commission that is urgently needed for this national assembly to act normally, acting on the basis of democratic principles, on the basis of democratic principles. You call, set the agenda and you're against actually setting it up. Here I see some illogicality, or actually it's just a farce, that this is really just a matter of debate, that it's some motive, that it wants to become democratic, that we want to have a democratic state with control, that we're going to establish it all together, and on the other hand we're not actually going to do it. In short, I don't see any rational work here, even on your part, when you put things on the agenda that you don't actually support. Next thing I know, we're looking at content. This National Assembly must have established and functioning public financial oversight committees and also a committee to oversee anti-intelligence services. It requires a democratic order. Of course, it's on the coalition. It's on most people to do it. And if a Member is given a mandate without limitation, then you must actually respect it and there are no other criteria and there are no other criteria for not doing so. I still think it's your motive to vote on this committee. Why wouldn't I? What do you think someone's gonna find out on this committee? What do you think is going to happen on this committee and someone is going to take advantage of this data, etc. – that this will be Mr. Janez Janša. Don't go blind! And don't fool yourself with the work of this commission to make anything happen! Or it's actually about stigmatizing one person. In this country, we stigmatize one person – and we do not grant him the rights he has. This is a violation of human rights. He has the right to participate in this committee. No marriage takes that away from him. For this reason, I think it is probably rational for you to vote here today with the proposed members, just as anyone can propose. Make a mental reversal of the fact that, in essence, no one will harm anyone, but we will have some democratic order, a democratic state, and at least you will be more satisfied, Europe will see us differently than we will now block one commission, it is for public finances, nothing can be done there, we cannot hear the Minister of Finance, and the other commissions simply cannot be set up. I think that as a new party you can give a sign, a symbolic sign of Slovenia and Europe, but in the sense that you simply start doing what your President says – that you need to cooperate, that compromises should be sought, that in short, all of this. [[…]] But you can't block something and you can't put someone in an in-out position; especially if it's a client who's not in a coalition that's in the opposition and has the right to participate in this party. That is why I – I do not expect you to vote on this committee. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u46	Mr Jože Tanko, SDS, has the floor. Get Mr. Janez Janša ready, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u47	Thank you so much for saying that. We confirmed it yesterday, or you voted out a list of candidates for the minister. One of the candidates, the former President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, violated eight laws, three regulations and several contracts and this is recorded in the Court of Auditors’ audit report. As a result, he received a negative opinion. For all these reasons, it is written which infringements were committed. Until yesterday, no one from the Peace Cerar Party, nor the President himself, who proposed Mr Klemenčič as Minister of Justice, expressed any reservations or concerns about qualifications or other matters related to the work of the Minister. Not a single reservation! Does that seem normal to you? It also involved financial fraud, passing over public contracts, dealing without contracts, etc., violating budgetary law, etc. etc. Not a single reservation! Yesterday, the President of the Government said something in the introductory paragraph of the exceptional sentences, which are a compilation of the thoughts of the two former presidents: the first, Mr Kučan, and the second, Mr Türk. He was talking about the integration and state-of-the-art functioning of politics, he was talking about there being no more room and time for overplay and accounting, and he was saying that people have enough political bollocking, bickering, division and blockade. That's what your Miro Cerar said. But yesterday was clearly a time for flaking. The facts are on the table today. Today, we have before us the composition of a commission in which it is not said that there is no legal basis for this committee, because the President of the National Assembly, who will also give a renewed call to the parliamentary groups, is obviously failing, unable and unable to find any constitutional, legal, business restrictions to write in this call, who may be a member of this commission. All the explanations here have been made by talking to ad persons, not about the fact, not about the problem, not about the general problem, but about the person who is not supposed to participate in this committee. I must say, Mr President of the National Assembly, I am very surprised that the legal qualities you have in the composition of your parliamentary group – we can list them in a row, I don't know, a quarter of the Group of Members are lawyers – not with a single word, unless they talk about this problem. Not a word! What was said in the introduction in the position of the Group of Members is not at all true in one part. And you haven't even intervened; obviously you can interrupt everything else. In short, we have a problem with, obviously, double criteria; when one rule applies to coalitions – and these are, I will say, different from those – and others are probably still subject to the provisions of the secret documents. For what your Members refer to, or your leader in the position of the Group of Members, is not written in any act on which you could base your statement, statement or position. This can only be written in some secret Official Journal, about which we have not been informed; or it is the conclusion of some "fair", some forum that works past the rules, past official, legitimate policies, and then there are customers who are just transmissions, that what is in the background is concluded – there behind that wall, yours, and still a little further – that they are transferring it to the National Assembly and process it. It's impossible to explain it differently. Until the President of the National Assembly or your largest parliamentary group can argue its decisions with the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure, until then there are certain decisions that have nothing to do with the rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u48	Mr. Janez Janša has the floor. Prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer, Alliance of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u49	Mr President, you should withdraw this point from the agenda yourself today because you are wasting the time and money of taxpayers. You insisted on this point after the entire coalition, which has a constitutional majority as a reserve here in the formal opposition, announced that it would vote against it. So what's this second time on the agenda? To make the farce even more obvious. If that's the point, maybe this time isn't wasted. It's just an or-or. If you are in favour of parliamentary oversight of secret services, you will vote in favour of this decision, but if you are against it, you will vote against it. There is no intermediate path here, nor such as Mr Tonin had previously tried to enforce when he had already proposed in advance how the coalition, even if it had set up a commission, could have played parliamentary control by boycotting concrete proposals. I hope he's engaged to such a proposal. In short, it is only: whether respect for some of the fundamental constitutional principles that apply in this country and also wider, or violation. Those of you who have voted against will be in violation of this. Since 1 August, secret services have been operating in Slovenia, as well as services that are not formally classified, but can use specific methods and means to control people without parliamentary supervision. There is also the Government, which is directly, even the President of the Government himself, who is directly responsible for the work of one of these services, the largest, and in fact we probably have for the first time in history – not likely, but certainly for the first time in the history of this country we have a situation where the President of the Government can listen to anyone with his secret service without parliamentary supervision. And it is also unlikely that it will be possible to determine whether such abuse has actually been committed or not. Since the government took an oath yesterday, Mr Miro Cerar has been directly responsible for this unconstitutional situation. If you vote against this committee today, you will extend it, but obviously a political decision has been made, I doubt that, I will say, exactly between you, but that it has come from somewhere and this will continue; we will be the only country in the European Union with such a situation. When Slovenia entered the European Union, it, like other candidates, had to meet the so-called political or Copenhagen criteria. Among these criteria is very high civil or parliamentary control of armed forces and of secret services. So it's not just a matter of this House. If you refuse this committee today, we will launch this debate at the competent committee of the European Parliament and also at the plenary session of the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u50	Mr Jani Möderndorfer, Alliance of Alenka Bratušek, has the floor to prepare Mr Luka Mesec, United Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u51	Thank you very much, President. At the outset, I have already said that I propose that this debate be as brief as possible, because of course it will be infertile. And if there is, I agree that it would be better if these points were not today – what my predecessor said. Because it's a fact that this commission is not really going to be elected, and we're really wasting our time. Of course, it's a time that you're making good use of just to pretend about information, to turn, to speak your way, and to convince your believers of it just as it is. I, the President, have not taken advantage of procedural procedures, nor of replicas, so I will also use my debate to reject certain findings. I'll go very quickly. Young men there keep getting their numbers straight, of course Mr Gorenak will join them and mention just how many votes have been received and who has the right to speak and mention any things here in this national assembly. Of course, they don't say we have a proportional system. All the time, you are fighting to prevent your party President Janez Janša from being wronged, and you are mentioning that he may be a second-rate Member. Excuse me, Mr. Gorenak, am I a second-rate Member and must have a little less rights if I get 701 votes? And I'm going to mathematically calculate what you're really getting. Look, I would be very defensive when we play with numbers because of this, you know, very quickly these things can be turned around. You have more than 20 years as a client – right? You won 181 thousand and 52 votes in these elections. We have existed for 42 days and we have received 38 thousand 293 votes. Okay. And now calculate how valuable your voice is when you haven't been able to convince yourself in 20 years with your mathematical formula what it really means. If I were to count further, 9,000 days, more than 9,000 days you exist — yes? And finally, if you were to calculate this formula – your voice or you got based on this calculation less than 0.00005 votes, but I don't care at all. It's more important to me than anything else that you do all the time. That's what you need to hear right now. What your young colleague says when he says that we will go to the unannounced or now to the new forecast, so that everyone will know in advance, we need to read a little bit about what it says in there. The public will not know where the commission will go, but the members will know! Of course, members will know, but they will avoid what your commission is when you run it, and your predecessors have done, and that is that the members have only found out in the van what they will supervise and what they will do. Only when they were on their own did they really know who they were looking at. I've been talking about this a lot in college, and I'm not gonna say it again. The other thing that seems very important to me is what Gorenak says when he says how do I know where someone is in the predictive process? Now I'm going to use your methods, not me. "Jancho is also being investigated by criminals and dacars," this was published in Part 5. 9. 2013 and talks about where the problem was – because remember this story when bank employee Natasa Pajnek, cousin Urske Báčovnik, had all of these cooperatives, which we still do not know if they are real or not. And procedures are under way. I don't know that. Another case that's fresher than not letting me know that I pulled a year-old event. Well, let's do it in a row. On 20 March 2014 it was republished, the STA published, not me, and I did not find it: "SDS, Janez Janša, have requested a judicial investigation into alleged property transactions with Imos in 2005......" etc. .................................................................................. We all know this story. And don't tell me whether I know or don't know. Ask the media! Ask the one who says today there's doubt and suspicion that I was talking about at the beginning. That is why I say that today's debate is fruitless. The Commission will not be, but you have a responsibility. So are you, not just everyone else, and you're not blameless. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u52	Replica, Mr. Janez Janša, I presume.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u53	None of these procedures, which Mr Möderndorfer has now listed, are allowed to use specific methods and means. The law specifies exactly when such methods and means are allowed, and there are limits. So what you're saying is no excuse. As to whether these methods and means are being used against me, there is just as much likelihood that they are being used against you or against any of those proposed in this committee. If I had some newspapers here, like you, in front of me, I could also read what procedures have been initiated because of the activities in which you have been involved, along with your boss, formerly because you are quickly changing them with the Stožice, in various other activities within the Municipality of Ljubljana and city policy, in some sports clubs – Olympia and so on. There, much greater funds were being turned over than in all of these procedures, which you have listed to be made clear to me. Thus, from this point of view, all this debate is a complete translation. It is simply that this instrumentation, which was abused in Slovenia before and even later, when our party was in opposition and we had the possibility of some control, we have discovered these abuses several times; I have talked about it in concrete terms before, and I will not repeat it. We know it's happening, the same people are still in these places, with the same thighs, with the same backgrounds. This is a key reason to reject parliamentary supervision or, rather, to try to create it in its own right. In Slovenia, the opposition is trying to moderate the will of someone, and it is also trying to moderate the various institutions by its own will, as well as parliamentary control. Of course, no one directly rejects it, but he tries to do so, so that if he can, he should be controlled by those who do not even know what needs to be looked at if he has to be for the form. As soon as someone who knows and has experience in this matter is proposed, however, this is a problem. That is why you are voting against the commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u54	Another replica, Mr. Jean-Mahnič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u55	Thank you for your word. Mr. Möderndorfer, did you read what you proposed? It's not about whether the public will know what this committee is doing or where it's going. What is public oversight if you tell someone in advance that you will enter unannounced control? We'll write a request for unannounced surveillance, we'll write where we're going, we'll write down when we get there and what we're going for. And one of the members of this commission will call on the Owl, "Clean up, he's coming." That's what this is about. Not for telling the public that we're going to go there unannounced. We'll go ahead with the announcement, but we'll make it public that we're going there. That's not what this is about. The point is that this is not unannounced control if you tell you in advance — even if the commission does — but let us stop painting, and they will know all about it. The fact that there's nothing left here between these four walls I've been here for two months, but I've already realized that. [[…]] One of the members of the commission, probably the one who is a member of the coalition of the Prime Minister of the government, who is going to put up a new director of the Owl, or, if he's responsible, he's going to keep it, he's going to tell us that they're coming to the ODS, they're coming to the Owl, they're coming to Telekom, they're coming to the police, they're going to have everything they're going to look at and when they're coming. You'll have to clean this up by then. You wrote here, in explanation, that this prevents politics. Politicians go or have done this work in history. This can also prevent unannounced control. And just one more thing: "We will strengthen parliamentary oversight of security and intelligence services." Do you know where that says? This is the 6th point under Chapter Security in your coalition contract. Read it to yourself if you haven't already, even though it's already over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u56	Another replica, Mr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Möderndorfer, more or less you have received an answer. Actually, I was going to say this, in those cases, it's not allowed to be used, but let me answer the others. You were talking about the members in the van finding out, and so on. You know, you weren't a member of this committee, as far as I know. So talking about something where you've never worked together is a little bit like that. In the period 2004 to 2008, this commission did not leave this house, I do not remember the case, without cameras either at the target or here in front of the National Assembly. At the time, the Commission was led, of course, by the opposition, Mr SD, as it had already written, sat where Mr Mesec is now sitting and led this commission. All the data went out, completely. In the post-2008 term, we ran this commission. There wasn't a camera once. Never! So who's taking advantage of these things? So who's kidding? Usually you and those, I'll say, your political predecessors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u58	Mr Luka Moon The United Left has the word to prepare the Mag. Branko Grimes, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u59	Thank you for your word. I'll be brief. In fact, the problem that we are solving with this debate has already been resolved before it, with the opinion we have received in hand. Indeed, it clearly states: "Since the Commission has not been voted on and the vote has taken place in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 200 of the PoDZ-1, the vote on the basis of the same paragraph shall be repeated by the new proposals of the groups of Members." So, dear SDS, suggest new members, you can propose to anyone, as we have heard today, and we will vote on the committee. Of course, you can propose to anyone, provided that this Commission receives 46 votes of support. If this is a problem, then I can't, I don't know if we don't agree on what the problem is, then because of me, we can make an information vote for each member individually to find problems. Because if the problem is, say, our member and he is unable to get 46 votes of support, we are ready to withdraw it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u60	The word has magic. Branko Grimes, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u61	Thank you. First of all, I think we can be quite grateful to those who are discussing and to those who are not. Those who debate because, by the coalition and its extensions in the opposition, they clearly demonstrate that exactly what I said at the outset is exactly what I said: the only objective, including this repeated procedure for commissioning, is to pour some more manure. Nothing else. What an introduction to parliamentary supervision! The real goal, of course, is that there is no control. To whom does this benefit, ladies and gentlemen? Dr. Cerariu, President of the Government! Because his most important job is directly subordinated to him. So who's going to be the abuser? You know, temptation – you know what Mae West said — temptation is the easiest way to solve it. Well, now we're there. Who is the party that talked most about the rule of law and respect for the rule of law and human rights in the campaign? And me, Cerarieva! Yeah! In short, we have one thing: one rule is to vote, the real face is by election. But then there are other rules. And that's really what this is about. You're saying one thing, you're pointing your finger at the other one, so you wouldn't notice how you're actually doing it yourself. Who's ever done this before? It's a transition left. Well, welcome to the third government transition left. So much so that there won't be any doubt as to what this is really about. But when you talk about what really needs to be done — very simple! If, in your opinion, this is controversial – of course, you have so much legal knowledge that you know it is not – then vote on the mandate and then experience your moment of truth before the Constitutional Court. You know exactly what you will experience there as well as in the European Court of Human Rights if necessary. Such a decision will get you packed, nice one brick or granite cube, and you will get it back in your head. Because he's totally unconstitutional and illegal. Not only that! All this debate, which, by the way, is an hate speech by definition, when you talk about one of your fellow Members, is a direct violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms and there is no legal doubt here, there is no need for any commission, no service, because all that you are talking about has already been the subject of a judgment at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and at the European Court of Human Rights. Multiple. Each time it was the same and clear judgment. If there's anything he wants to limit himself to, he has to do it before someone goes to the polls. In Slovenia this is also allowed by the Slovenian Constitution. This Article is understood to mean that those who do not have the ability to do so must not have a passive and active electoral right. There are no other restrictions. But if someone goes to the elections, then any interference is no longer allowed in his mandate: not in scope, not in content, not in length. Nothing. It should be able to carry out the full mandate. This is a repeated assessment of the European Court of Human Rights, which refers to a convention ratified by Slovenia and therefore directly applied, even if something was different in our legal order. Well, it's not. And of course, the Constitutional Court ruled the same way, which, by the way, was only a reminder of the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. That is why all your debate has been an hate speech, consciously and for a long time for two months, a lasting violation of human rights not only by your particular fellow Member, but also by all those voters and voters who, when exercising their active electoral rights, entrusted him with their vote, but also indirectly to all those who voted for the SDS, because we have a proportional electoral system, as you yourself have found. That's really what this is about. Here the question is raised when it comes to big words about law, you obviously understand the law that it applies until you like all legal facts, including the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights, on the other hand, and then you begin to moralise. Then it's not real anymore. What did Orwell say? All pigs are — sorry — all animals are the same, only pigs are more equal than others. Welcome to Orwell Slovenia under Cerara's leadership!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u62	I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the election of the President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. In doing so, I inform you that, on the basis of the second paragraph of Article 10 of the Law on parliamentary control of intelligence and security services, a decision will be taken if the majority of all Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more. He wants one. [[…]] Please, Mr. Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u63	The Honourable President of the National Assembly! We'd like to give an explanation. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u64	It's not that time. First of all, do I have to ask if any of the members of the group would like to give an explanation? [[No, no, ……]] Then I'll start the list. Please sign up for an explanation of vote. Explanation of the voice of the Magi. Branca Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u65	Your Honor! We will, of course, vote in favour of a decision that is only appropriate and legal in the SDS Group. It is high time to eliminate the illegal, even illegal, situation where security and intelligence services in Slovenia have no control, which explicitly requires Slovenian legal order. Everything that is cited as the reason for not confirming this has also proved to be in this debate on the basis of legal opinions and, most importantly, on the basis of the opinion of the Constitutional Court and the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, not only as nothing but even as an attempt to continue a grave violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms. For this reason, everyone who today votes in favour of this commission will vote in favour of the Slovenian acquis. However, everyone who has voted against this situation will be dragged back for some time, and given that all the arguments against it have proved to be not only legal nothing, but even illegal, in which case the Slovenian legal order, the Slovenian Constitution and because it is also a grave, fundamental declaration on human rights and freedoms, especially the part to which the European Court of Human Rights points out.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u66	Explanation of the voice of the Magi. Baby Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u67	Mr President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Dear Members and Members! I give an explanation to the vote on behalf of the Group of the Mir Cerar Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u68	I'm sorry, but this time is up. Now you can only give an explanation in your own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u69	Thank you. In view of the fact that a proposal for a decision for an unaltered list of candidates has been submitted for today's hearing, that is to say the same as it was submitted at the 2nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of 28. 8. 2014 and where the decision has not been adopted, we remain in the position not to support the proposed decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u70	Is there any other explanation? I'll open the list. Explanation of the voice of the Magi. Anzeta Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u71	Thank you. Unlike my predecessor in the personal explanation of my voice, I will not speak in multitude, for I am now one and only. We have received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which in the last part wrote this sentence on the other hand: "The appropriate impact of opposition parliamentary groups is essential in our view, as it goes towards parliamentary supervision of intelligence and security services for the form of democratic, political, not only professional control, which by the nature of things" – attention by the nature of things! – "is based on a certain degree of mistrust in the operation of these services." Kustec Lipicer does not trust the proposed members of the commission, but trusts the security intelligence services. But listen, the Legal and Legislative Service says nicely that there is a certain degree of distrust in the functioning of these services in the commissions or in the intelligence services by nature. And what is most unacceptable to me, and that is why I will also vote in favour of this proposal, because I think that everyone who thinks with a sound mind must press the "yes" button in unity, not in plural, is how the proposals made by the opposition are discussed here. Listen, I'm quoting the words of the President of Parliament, 28. 8. he said when there was a debate on the proposals to provide a legal basis for us to be able to form an appropriate commission despite the blockade. You want to change the law because you don't like the proposed composition of the commission [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] We're here! [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u72	Explanation of Dr. Vinko Gorenak's voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u73	Thank you very much. I have previously asked the head of the Parliamentary Group, Mrs Lipicero, on the basis of which article of the Constitution, law, sub-legislative acts or Rules of Procedure. I also advised you to consult with your colleagues. There was no answer, but in the meantime I examined the composition of your parliamentary group. In the parliamentary group there are six doctors of science, including a judge with a doctorate in science – from the law, I think. You're not able to give that answer! You're not capable. You also have 7 masters of science and all this "flower" – in the kitchen of the plumage they say it is a flower, the first plumage – is unable to find a member of the constitution, unable to find a member of the law, by law or by law if you want. Of course you say, "We're against it." Is this any excuse: we're against it?Oh, my God! Whoever came over here told us why he was up for it. And I am in favour of this decision because nowhere in the constitution, in the laws, by-laws, by-laws, rules of procedure, if you wish, such candidacy is not prohibited. It is forbidden only in the heads of those who behave, despite your doctorate, in the baboline. Because what you're doing, it's balinian and it's not legal. But you won because of the word "right." That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u74	Any other explanation for the voice? I'm going through the list. Explanation of Mr Jožet Tank's voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u75	Thank you very much. I will vote in favour of the proposed list for the composition of the Security Intelligence Supervisory Commission. I am sure that, as regards the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we have proposed three quality members to this committee, and I see absolutely no reason for us to make a different decision. However, if the coalition, which has four members on this committee, among them Dr Dobovška, Marjana Dolinška, Benedict Kopmajer and Matjaž Germany, is not satisfied with its personnel proposal, this proposal of the Commission's composition can be corrected, changed, but could be amended now, twice now, now we will have this second time, another proposal. We will give our votes and the coalition has 52 votes. This committee can vote for itself, and it can change its staffing set: both in Mir Cerar Party, SD can change that, Desus can change that. If you're not satisfied with this, I suggest you change your staff. It is unworthy that, with your dissatisfaction with your staff proposal, you are burdening the entire National Assembly and preventing the work of oversight of security intelligence services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-19-SDZ7-Izredna-03.ana.u76	Any other explanation for the voice? [[No, no, ……]] Then we move on to the vote. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 48. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this item of the agenda and also the 3rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly.
