ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We begin with the 23rd meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Irena Tavčar, mag. Melita Župevc from 12 noon onwards, Mr Andrej Čuš, Dr. László Göncz after 16:00, Mr Roberto Battelli and Mr. Franz Bogovic. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 23. At the end of the day, that is to speak of the interpretation of the work and the responsibility of the Minister for the internal affairs of Dr. Gregory Virant. The Interpellation was submitted to the assembly by a group of 10 Members and Members with a first-signed magi. Ivan Vogrin. I give the floor to the representative of the Magi's proposal. Ivan Vogrin's explanation for the interpolation. Here you go, Mr. Vogrin, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u2	Dear fellow Members and Members, distinguished ministerial assembly, respected citizens and citizens! On Monday, the President of the Government had a birthday – on this day also my daughter Kristina – so I have a bouquet prepared for the President of the Government, of course in case she comes and, of course, I wish her everything good and, above all, health. / wax, applause/ In one of my books, I wrote what is the measure of a man's worth. Of course, some measure the value of a person by position, others measure the value of a person by money, some by education, of course. I think, of course, that these are completely wrong criteria. In the end, we always have to be whether we are or are not human. Dr. Trstenjak wrote, it's only about being human. Let's go to the formal side. Although I apologize to the Council of Ministers and the President of Parliament to tell them my back, it seems a little rude to me, but this has been shown at the symbolic level that most of the things in Slovenia have been wrongly set. Also, the one who talks here shows his back. It would be time, of course, to make radical changes. The question is why the interpolation. The guesses are different. One thing, of course, is that Ivan Vogrin wants revenge on Gregor Virant. Why? Why should I get revenge? Gregor Virant is not responsible and is not responsible for the bankruptcy of my company. And I guess that's where my problems come from as a Member, if that's, of course, a problem. One of the fellow Members made a vehement statement to the media that Ivan Vogrin wanted more attention. Do you think I've had a lack of attention in these two years? No, ladies and gentlemen. I replied to this colleague at 17 points why this interpretation is necessary and not because of the lack of attention, but because Slovenia is in an acute spasm. What's the third one? Today, we will try to explain this and prove it. If I slip into one very simple sentence: Gregor Virant has been driving between different options since 2000 so that he always had the best and that he had the greatest seizure. And for this reason, such people are harmful to the country, but in this case to a country called Slovenia. I wrote a definition that I took after the American writer Ambros Bierc. What is the definition of a fraud: this is a degenerate person who does public affairs solely for his own benefit, contrary to what people declare. What is in interpretation is contrary to some who have commented on it without even reading it, documented by the accompanying documents, by contracts, by reports, by statements, today will only be explained, but it would be good for them to at least read it. Some also say how now Ivan Vogrin is interpelling Minister Virant, and if he has come to Parliament on his list. Yes, he is, and of course I thank him that he called me one day earlier and took me to the list, although I had no particular desire or purpose, because until that moment I did not know that they were thinking in the Citizen's List. But also this was not done so spontaneously because Gregor Virant would have good intentions, but mainly because the group from northeast Slovenia, Anton Šichec, Miran Jelen, assessed that Ivan Vogrin could be elected. And Ivan Vogrin got the highest percentage in the Citizen's List, higher than the President, higher. That's one of the reasons. The second reason is that at the time, the Civil Code had, for the time being, a very good programme, a liberal, free-thinking, economically oriented programme. Which is the most important reason. In 2011, Gregor Virant was able to assemble a very competent team, Dr. Janez Šuštersič, Dr. Mark Pavliho, Mr. Tomaž Ših, mag. He likes to fuck around so I don't mention it any more. But none of these are anymore. None. And it's a good thing I'm not either. I'm the first one of these outcasts to fall off. Member Truda Cinderella, who was badly played, was also dismissed because of a minor bureaucratic error. Nobody talks about human tragedies, she loses her job, promises her client will take care of her, nothing happens. Nothing. That's not how you do it. I'm glad, of course, that Minister Virant killed two autogoals at the time of the intervention. I think the Prime Minister of the government will sooner or later, I hope not too late, find out she's shooting at her goal. In fact, he stated that Members who have been convicted should not, however, be Members on condition or unconditionally, but should not be Members and even less so invest in interpretations. The First Great Morality of the Situation — Misdirection. When Mr Virant was President of Parliament, Member of Parliament and so on, he had a judgment in the first instance, a condition which, of course, was annulled by the Supreme Court. Ivan Vogrin was the only one who had a probationary sentence in the first instance, 23. 11. 2013 was repealed. So the situation is exactly the same, I am not fit for a Member, Minister Virant, Vice-President of the Government, but he is suitable for all functions, I think he is preparing to jump in to dissuade the Prime Minister of the Government if you do not stop him because he is subject to the fundamental roots of Slovenia. The second thing, in response to the interpolation, is that the interpolation talks about things that happened before his ministry. Of course, it also speaks of some of these because man is a complex person and probably not an object that would now act like that, secondly so, for the third time so. However, we do have so-called, Minister Virant talks a lot about integrity. Ladies and gentlemen, what integrity it is if it is subject to other criteria than me, and I will not tell you about Mr Stepišnik, Meršol and so on. My actions, my bankruptcy, happened before I became an MP. Let's ask ourselves the same question. Let's have the same criteria. Why is Minister Virant chasing me for two years as a bloodthirsty animal? Because, like thousands of businesses, entrepreneurs, economicists for 20 years, with an average of 50 people, I paid taxes, contributions, employment. Then the crisis came, I wrote a book, I acknowledged the mistakes, I said that we had done the wrong thing, that not all the bankrupt companies were just due to the crisis, but, of course, it was always, I repeat, for the bankrupt companies responsible company, owner, management. For bankruptcy, who, ladies and gentlemen? Citizens, by Minister Virant. He's the number one person responsible for the bankruptcy of the state. Every year, due to his unreasonable salary reform, the public sector wage system, the Public Employees Act, which employs 30,000 public servants too, suffers and is bankrupt. 800 million to billions every year is too much money for public sector spending. So that it is not misunderstood, they are not to blame for their employment. Wait, if you get a good job, not a job, a job that's paid well, where of course you have a lot of benefits, yes, and you'll get a job. It's nothing wrong with people. It's wrong with the system. It's wrong with the system of values we introduced. Minister Virant, in response to the interpellation, mentioned that I was obsessed with him. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not being misdirected, I'm not obsessed. And this, the book, hath a book, saying, I dedicate the book unto children: Christine, and Vid, and David, and to Nick, and to Natalia, which give me immense strength and courage, that I have written this book. Especially because of them and because of all the children who deserve a creative environment, we are all obliged to strive for the truth and to fight for justice. That's our basic purpose. He who is an apostle, and is not able to do so, is not worthy of the city, ladies and gentlemen. So interpellation did not arise as some kind of revenge, as some current impulse, began in 2014, when I started writing this book and collecting documents. And we've found catastrophic things. Yesterday, the day before yesterday, I had a reporter from one of the newspapers. Because these documents are such a shed because people send them because some things came through different channels, I gave this to the press, I said, I'm not gonna deal with it, that's it, take it. I went to copy some more, and he said, "Yes," and wait, because then it's no wonder the KPK didn't investigate the case that you filed on the KPK in the case of the Civil Gazette. Alenka Vižintin has a signed contract with the National Counseling List. Until yesterday, I didn't know who Alice Vizintin was. The wife of the Hand of the Ensign. Ladies and gentlemen, total systemic corruption. Who's gonna take that into their hands? If you get a job there, it'll be said it's made up again. On my website www.vogrin.eu you have all the documentation under the heading Parliament published. Nothing's made up. Everything is documented, but it will not be enough for you today to find the strength and stand on the side of the people of Slovenia who are hungry. Yesterday it was published, 400,000 people of Slovenia live below the poverty line, and the circus is 200 000 rich people, 10% of those who took 23 years, even in the way I am now talking about. I thank the nine signatories of the interpolation next to me who have found the strength to sign. I'll tell you, I'm very fond of expressing myself, you know, and I was born on a farm, and I hope to die there, too, because it's a healthy environment. [[…]] My mom said when she was watching TV, "John, you look like a 13th pig in Parliament right now, they're all pushing you away." We used to have a farm at home, and we had little pigs. Bitch's got 12 zizs, 13th pullout. It's like that around me, and I'm not crying, you know, it gives a man the strength. But it's nice to have a person tell you an anecdotes that people can relax a little, smile, because this bureaucratic latrine of the thirty-three years didn't lead us anywhere but to bankruptcy. Will the interpolation work? It will if you vote in favour of Slovenia. But if you vote for your privileges, for the government to hold on at all costs, it probably won't. But since I'm getting a lot of information, I'm gonna tell you some scenarios. Nor does it have to be feared if Minister Virant is relieved of the government's fall. No one wants to run the government at this point, no one. And the president of the government, actually, all congratulations. I know about when I ran a company that went bankrupt, how it's so that it's probably not easy for her. Even if Minister Virant is relieved, there is a high probability that the government will remain. Secondly, in this book – it is good to read, you know, I have also read a lot of the Communist manifesto and so on, one must read various things from other areas, and if you have not read this book, it is good to read it – since 2000 the vigil of Minister Virant has been analyzed. In 2000, he came as a great hope to the Bajuk government, and for six months this government was, and then Drnovšek came again. And there was a secretary of state in Drnovšk's government. Then came the government of Rop, if you remember, in two years, Drnovšek left for president and then this government held back until 2004. Minister Virant knows exactly when to do something, because, of course, he was in the previous government, if he stayed until the end, he would probably have a relatively small chance of being in the next government minister. No, he resigned a few months earlier as a great strategist, a winner and joined the Janša government as minister. And then you can follow. And now the scenario, if Minister Virant survives the interpellation today, will be issued by the government in 14 days, in a month, in two months. Why? Since it is very convenient to go out and say, I do not agree with the increased tax, I do not agree with the reduction in public sector wages and so on, I do not agree, but the main cause of chaos and bankruptcy in Slovenia is all the time. I will take a relative look at the mere text of the interpolation in this introductory address, because it was published in due time, all published, including additional documentary material. I'm just going to look at the second point right now. The second point is that Janka Jenka PCX – Janko Jenko – is to be carried out by the Director – is to advise Members on the preparation of the expert basis for planning the work of the Group. Interestingly, Minister Virant has five sentences in his response to this area. Why? Because there's nothing to comment on because there's documentation. Look what we find. No advice was given because I was a member of the parliamentary group at the time and I don't remember anything. Not only did it not exist, it could not have been, because counseling was supposed to be offered on Monday 12. Three, 19. 3 and 26. 3. 2012. On Mondays, no Member was here because we are on the ground, in sent-off offices. A lie, a report is a lie, an account is a lie, a contract is a lie. All the documents have been given. However, why the Commission has not addressed this in order to prevent corruption. As I said before, because Mrs Alenka Vižintin, in one of the other contracts with the National Gazette, also advised, provided services. No advice was also provided 13. 3, 20. Three and 27. 3. It's on Tuesdays, then we have, we've had when I was in the Civil Gazette, a meeting of the parliamentary group or a meeting started. Further advice is expected to be provided 9. 3, 14. 3 and 22. 3. And the dates don't match again, because there were meetings of the National Assembly at the time. That's not possible. From magnetograms, videos and other evidence, it is possible to conclude where the Members were. It should be pointed out that within six working days, within the time limit provided for in the basic contract, the consulting firm should do 180 hours, meaning that 6 times 3 is 18 30 hours each day — how is this possible? [[…]] Maybe it's like a farmer said when they asked him how he could work for 25 hours. He said he'd get up an hour early. They just got up six hours ago. It's not possible. Day 23. 3. An annex was concluded to the contract extending the period for implementation to 31. 3. 2012. The value did not change during the interim period, so — now listen well — neither the contract nor the annex was valid, but they were or were supposed to be doing the work. 3, 19. 3, 20. Three, twenty-one. 3 and 22. 3. neither the contract nor the annex. How could it be done? We're dealing with the president of the Civil Code, who's a real doctor. The leader of the parliamentary group is a lawyer, a lawyer. Are there no rules that nothing should be implemented at a time when the contract or the annex is not concluded? Of course they got caught. That's what they were doing back there. Do you know when they started doing this? When journalists began to explore what was actually going on with these worlds. And without me stepping into the press' defense now, because the press, when I was on probation, was 50 and they called me the biggest criminal. There was no reporter when it was an acquittal. I sent all the documentation to all the press houses — the work was published on the other hand. It's the only job. So much for journalistic ethics and morality, about parliamentary, and of course ministerial, too. I sent a criminal complaint to the prosecution in January 2013 and to the Commission to prevent corruption. Nothing. None of that. I told KPK how it is. I was called to the National Investigation Office to explain orally as well. And I said that in these days PCX was not even in the National Assembly. Have them go look at the logs because there's no entry. What did they virtually advise, or how? A month ago, I sent a request to the head of the National Assembly for a copy of the visit log. You have the answers on my website under the heading Parliament. Can't get it. I even asked him to contact the leadership of the National Assembly with the interpretation mentioned, because, of course, it is their likely purpose, their desire to prove that they were here and to provide a consensus that they could. If someone were to tell me, if I had consulted somewhere in a company, they'd say, "Come on, let me take a look at the daily visits, of course I'd say yes, if I was there, and probably not if I wasn't there." The answer is in the palm of your hand. Ladies and gentlemen, we really are in a lot of trouble. Of course, there will be a lot of things said today, a lot of lies spoken, a lot of contradictions, but once again, I stress that everything I have just talked about has either been accompanied by an interpolation or published on my website. Nothing's made up. Today you have a unique opportunity, a unique opportunity to start saving this agony of Slovenia. Institutions, countries, businesses go bankrupt because of people. My company was worth €4.5 million after the assessment of the New Bank of Credit. I've lost everything. Do you feel like I was complaining about something? No, no, no. Ten years from now, I'm going to have at least such a good business again, because I'm a soul entrepreneur, a creator, not a bureaucrat killer, I'm not getting fed up with other people's problems, I'm not sucking the blood of citizens, I'm doing, I'm creating, I'm trying to live, I'm trying to live with dignity. Dignity also includes voting on your conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u3	Thank you, too. You received Dr. Gregor Virant's reply to the interpretation by letter dated 10 March 2014. Today, I give the floor first to the President of the Magi Government. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u4	Dear Members and Members! I would expect the opposition to take more account of the fact that interpolation makes sense only if they are very well-founded. Otherwise, they have no chance of success. The opposition is simply because it has fewer votes than the coalition in Parliament, and only very good arguments can change the clear result of the vote in advance. This time's interpolation is the worst-case scenario ever. It contains three indications, of which only one relates to the work of the Interior Minister, and the investors themselves say that the Minister acted within the framework of legal powers, i.e. legally. Such interpolation is indeed difficult to label as reasoned. Unfortunately, with such proposals and unfounded accusations, you do not contribute to the resolution of problems or to the normalisation of the political scene in Slovenia. On top of that, this is the second interpellation of Interior Minister Virant. The Minister himself has vowed to resign if it turns out that he has broken the law and I expect him to do so. If only other politicians in Slovenia could set a limit that they would not go through or when they would leave if they crossed it. Because in Positive Slovenia we feel that it is possible to spend 10 precious hours much smarter than listening to an unagreed debate, I suggested to the Members of Positive Slovenia that we use this time to discuss how Slovenia should proceed. So let me say a few words about the situation our government has been in. I do not expect recognition or commendation for the successes our government team has achieved. Not for the fact that we managed to shake the three-way threat. Not for overcoming high interest rates in the financial markets, and yesterday's premium on 10-year government bonds has been the lowest since we've been in the euro area. Not by filling the bank hole, stopping the declining GDP and starting to raise the number of employees. We did some things together, and many things began to be done outside. Whether they will continue to be in Slovenia, it depends most on us, fortunately or sadly. Where else does the Constitutional Court's decision apply to political disqualification, almost liquidation of the government, at a time when Slovenia is beginning to collect. We do not take credit for our success, but it is still up to us to act in the future whether Slovenia will ever again find itself in a similar hopeless situation. But such irresponsibility has no one's right to take it. I know success always seems self-evident, but failures are inexcusable. That is why I do not expect anyone to miss us some failures because of the above-mentioned successes. Yes, it is, economic activity is still too low. Employment is still not high enough. And, yes, the property tax was abolished by the Constitutional Court. We are responsible for all of this in government and coalition, but what today really means is responsibility. I do not have the privilege of talking about responsibility in general and in person. The responsibility of this government is primarily my responsibility. I never forget that every move we make has serious consequences for the country and for the people. So let me repeat, it would really be irresponsible if we let old mistakes happen again. If we play at home, we can fall back again despite stronger and stronger Europe. This responsibility cannot be resolved by retributing, but can only be justified by serious decisions on new measures to remedy past failures and, above all, by eliminating the possibility of new ones. That is why today, instead of spending 10 hours in an infertile debate on the life of Minister Virant, I will present to the Members of Positive Slovenia the solution for the loss of property tax. And I can tell you that raising VAT will not be the solution that you would propose, not because the internal minister or the National Gazette so requests, but because we know in Positive Slovenia, in the coalition and the government together to find different, better, economics and people-friendly solutions. Thus, we can show where arguments and political responsibility save the future, where without arguments it is purely political, raw and perceived in the past.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u5	Thank you. I give the floor to Minister Gregor Virant to explain the written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u6	Thank you very much, President. Apparently that bouquet didn't help much, Mr. Vogrin. Let me first say for all of you, as well as for those who are watching us, that before me and the President of the Government behind this speaker panel was a Member, the first to be signed under interpretation, Mr Ivan Vogrin, against whom there are 15 to 20 criminal proceedings. Between 15 and 20 criminal proceedings! This says a lot about this interpretation, not everything, I have a lot more to say, but it says a lot. They didn't even know how to count them. We have not sought this information in any records of the Ministry of the Interior, but this House of State has refused immunity so many times. So much for the credibility of the first-signed. And in this society you're obviously feeling good about the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, you're not selective when you have to go after Virant. Look, the first interpolation that was filed against me last fall was groundless, but it had some content. We had some interesting discussions, and my colleague Tonin and I had a little renegotiation of small and large municipalities, some of whom we talked about the public sector's pay system, some of which we talked about deleted. Some interesting debates that had content and were actually quite pleasant to discuss. You didn't talk me into anything at the time, but you could say we had a substantive debate. This time a document, addressed as an interpolation, is an interpolation by address only. It's an abuse of the Constitutional Interpellation Institute. It is the play of constitutional order, the National Assembly and the mockery of citizens and citizens, who also pay the wages to you investors of interpretation. Let's see what the Constitution says about interpretation. Article 118, paragraph 1, of the Constitution provides that at least 10 Members shall be able to interpret the work of the Government or of the Minister. This document, which you addressed as an interpolation, does not apply at all to my work. None of what you're writing about in interpolation and what you're talking about today has ever been in my jurisdiction and not in my jurisdiction. You also know that this is in the hands of the leader of the parliamentary group, who will be happy to explain these things to you. And I trust him, he's a very thorough and thorough man, Mr. Richard Branisel. However, I have certainly never dealt with how the Group of the National Gazette uses the resources it receives for professional assistance and advice. Everyone's doing their job with us, I'm not the kind of party president that gets everyone involved and in their decisions. This document contains, in fact, a collection of insults, personal qualifications, insinuations, claims not supported by evidence, and is a cartoon of interpolation. With this document, the signatories showed an offensive and unacceptable attitude towards the National Assembly, the Constitution, citizens and citizens. And I regret that this document, signed by Mr Ivan Vogrin and the 9 members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, has at all come to the agenda of the National Assembly. We all know what the problems Slovenia has, and instead of investing all the energy and all the time in trying to find the best solutions for people, you will now spend the whole day, 10 hours working, wandering through some political swamp of insinuation, insults, accusations, slanders and so on. And for that, you'll be paid out of taxpayers' pockets by the 10 you signed. For nothing, you will spend all day, not only my fellow Members, but also your time and all your colleagues and fellow Members. As before, I will also take advantage of the opportunity given to me by the interpolation to say something about what we have done at the Ministry of the Interior this year of my ministry. But I prefer to talk about work and results, because this is the main and only motive that holds me in Slovenian politics in 2014. Because if it was personal benefits, then I'd be doing what I was doing earlier. I did much better materially than I did in politics. So what did we do? First time. Last year, in record time, about a month with public sector unions, when water was flowing into the throat, remember, negotiate an agreement that broke the public sector strike and achieved extremely significant budget savings. In 2013, it amounted to €109 million, over €400 million for this year, if we understand savings as a difference in salary, which would be, if it were not for this agreement, and what we achieved with this agreement – the end of the sentence, the normal implementation of last year's budget and the facilitation of the implementation of this budget. Another time. We hold the number of employees in the state administration firmly on the lines. Last year it fell by 2.4%. Since 2005, by the way, when I have really set up a policy in another government to reduce the number of employees, the state administration has decreased by 10%. This is a policy of reducing the number of employees. Third time. We have solved the legal and political extremely complex problem of the deleted. A great deal of political skills and legal knowledge was needed, and my teams were very involved in closing this problem with the Indemnity Scheme Act. The ECHR's recent judgment in the Kurić case and others confirms that you have done the right thing by your fellow Member and by the Members who have confirmed this because, if I am doing a bit of caricing, the court has ruled practically under our law. And it turned out that those who claimed to give too much were wrong, because if they went to Strasbourg, they would get much higher compensation, but it also turned out that those who claimed that we had given too little, because the compensation granted by Strasbourg was higher, but comparable, ours in the framework that would be satisfactory for the Strasbourg court. Fourth time. We have prepared a revolutionary amendment to the Law on Access to Public Information, which will – these days – reveal, make transparent and public business for companies in dominant state and municipal ownership. Advisory contracts, donor contracts, sponsorship contracts, wages, grants, ratings and so on will become public in these companies, which is extremely important for reducing corruption risks and for the efficient operation of these companies. The public will be able to find out how millions in state-owned companies are turning. Fifth. We have aligned the funding legislation on political parties and the election campaign with GRECO's 7-year-old recommendations and – thank you all for your support – with your help we have banned financing of political parties without opposition support, banned financing of political parties by companies. So they cut off this link in some way or cut the link between the economy and politics to some extent and also reduce corruption risks. But most of all, I'm proud of the work of the police. I don't stand up to the police because the police are doing their job. They are those who work professionally, devotedly, self-sacrificingly, actively, effectively, neutrally. I won't stand up for their work. But I'm proud of their work. Police at the head of the NPU dictate the pace of the fight against economic crime and corruption. Everybody sees that in this country. Last year, police filed over 3,000 complaints against natural persons in the area of economic crime and over a thousand complaints against legal persons. The Prosecutor's Office has proposed securing an amount of EUR 130 million in illegal assets. The crimes being investigated in the banking sector at this time have resulted in total economic damage of EUR 350 million. The police act professionally, effectively, independently and neutrally. And I protect her from any political pressures, even though she's often under attack. Especially those in the police who are more exposed, the director of the National Investigation Office, for example, the Director General of the Police. The Slovenian police are no longer untouchable within political, economic, banking and other elites, and there are no more holy cows. This is what the police are doing, and I will continue to undermine it. The police are in the process of human resources reinforcement, 75 additional people will be given for economic crime and corruption, and with the help of the President, the Government has redistributed 3 million additional money to the police for work in this particular area. I can answer these questions in a few sentences. First, my investors report to the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian steel industry that I have influenced recruitment in the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian steel industry. So it's just a waste of time. As Minister of the Interior, I have nothing at all to do with the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Steel Industry. This is a matter of the SOD – Slovenian compensation companies. I did not influence the appointment of Mr Janko Jenk in this supervisory council, nor in my awake state, nor in my dreams. Moreover, I called Mr Jenk when I found out that he had been appointed there, and these were the hot days when much talked about political recruitment, and I invited him to withdraw from the supervisory board, because it seemed to me a conflict of interest that as an influential party member came into the supervisory board. Instead, Mr. Jenko chose to withdraw from the Civil Code. It's his choice. But I think in this case I have shown the very exemplary action of the party's president as to how the party's president must act against political recruitment. Then my investors report their support to my colleague Sam Omerzel. Look, it's unimaginable and absurd to interpret one minister because he supports another minister. You have nothing so far as to go so far that you are also most prepared for the hair-attracted things to write into interpolation. For example, the observation then relates to the fact that I could have an impact on the predictive procedure concerning Mr Omerzel. Look, I have no idea there's some kind of predictive procedure going on with Mr. Omerzel. I read in the media that it was supposed to be an anonymous application. And that's all. Whether there is any forecasting procedure, I do not know or ask, nor will I ask, nor am I interested, but at least as Minister of the Interior, I can direct specific investigations, specific forecasting procedures. That's in the hands of the D.A. Slovenian police, if any minister tried to do so, the Slovenian police, as they have now been set up, would not allow that. I wouldn't. Then a statement relating to the use of funds for professional assistance to the Group of the National Gazette. Once again, investors, Members and Members should be aware of the fact that Mr Richard Braniselj, the leader of the Group of Members, is responsible for the use of the funds of the Group of Members. I'm sure he'll be happy to explain things to you if you ask him. Once again, I know Mr Branislj as a very caring, conscientious man, and I trust him, and I believe that the use of these funds was all right. However, I am not going to go ahead with this micromanage to now manage how the Group of Members spends money as the President of the Party. But the next observation is the only one that really relates to my work. This, however, is an indication of the discharge of Mrs Mojce Kucler Dolinar and Mr Boža Podalič from the post of Chiefs of the administrative units. Look, I've been dealing with administrative units since 2000. Indeed, in various roles I have dealt with this area, and if people in this country admit anything to me, even those who disagree with me and my policy admit to me that I have put administrative units in order and that they are doing well. Sometimes someone tells me because I don't agree with you, sometimes I don't like your politics, but the administration really has a crush on you, and that's what's going on. That's what's going on. And part of it, my policies – policies of friendly and effective state administration – this is my policy, and I believe in it from the heart and I have been doing it for the last 14, 15 years, with a few breaks, I have also worked in the middle, but more at the theoretical level. If I'm up to anything, I'm up to it. And an integral part of this policy is also human resources policy. And I have always led such a human resources policy in administrative units that I have chosen the best, most competent and those who have shared my view of the state administration, that it must be a friendly and effective service for citizens and businesses. In these two specific cases, I have decided to resolve myself because it was an eclectic case of non-transparent procedure and an explicit political appointment. See, the two chiefs were appointed just before the end of the government's term of office, which was known to be leaving, the Yangshee governments, were appointed to supply, that is to say, months and months before the former chief's term expired, they had already been appointed and reserved for them there. And in one of the two cases, the procedures for the application were very short-circuited, in short, it all seemed very opaque and strange and the only logical and correct move was to establish the previous situation. The only logical and correct. Then you give me Karin Jurše's appointment as head of the Maribor Management Unit. This chief will make order at the Maribor Management Unit. There's a lot to clean up and clean up, believe me. A variety of hunters who controlled the city of Maribor also reached out to the administrative unit and that is why I decided to make a new broom. However, I must say that I had consulted the Mayor of Maribor before, because I was also interested in his opinion, and his opinion was positive. By the way, I went to look at the data, and I didn't appoint one chief of the administrative unit to be a member of the National Gazette. Allow me a few more thoughts on today's interpretation. This interpolation proves a complete loss of feeling for the criteria. I feel like we're in some kind of wrong world. Let's see who came after me. A Member who has so many and so many criminal proceedings over him for embezzling his creditors. Mr. Vogrin, we never told you that your company went bankrupt. I regret that, and I believe it's hard if it happens to you in your life, and no one is to blame, but if you're cheating on the creditors, you're to blame. You're not yet legally convicted, so I can't say you're guilty of embezzling creditors, but you're in so much criminal proceedings as to cheat creditors that they couldn't even count them in the National Assembly to know how many you have. And you are going after the Minister of the Interior, along with nine SDS Members and Members of the SDS, a party whose president was convicted of corruption in the first instance, under financial investigation against him, the KPC has found major irregularities regarding his personal property, an unexplained source of property, and he is still being charged by the National Investigation Office. A beautiful union has come to me, to me, which is not in the same procedure, I have no complaints, no criminal proceedings, nothing like that. So where do we live, where do we come from?Oh, my God! This is the wrong world. For example, make sure that your miracle boy Robert Timer appears in prison at the Age where he was tried by a court of law. In the face of the billions stolen by criminals in this country, in the face of a number of policies under investigation and criminal proceedings, some cases in which there was nothing illegal are brought before the President of the party and the Minister, who is not in any proceedings, no legal proceedings, nothing like that. Where did we come from, my dears? We have to resist such double standards, because otherwise we will be in a situation where Lichtenberg's sentence will come true, listen to me: "It has been raining so much that all the pigs have become clean and all the people are muddy." Just think about it a little bit over that sentence. Only the naive believe that the real reason for today's interpolation and media attacks on me is some sort of airline map and the release of Bož Podalič and the means for the work of the parliamentary group. The real reasons are different. The first real reason is for many to get on the nerves of brave, efficient, hardworking, dedicated and independent police. Among the suspects are many strong, even very strong individuals, people who had or still have financial, political, media power. Of course, it gets on their nerves that none of them is a holy cow, and of course they would have any luck if the Slovenian police could wear the reins. Another real reason for my interpretation today is that many fear the public, the business of state-owned companies. Under the new law, it will be necessary to show and explain the effects of the million contracts and to explain why certain businesses and individuals are flourishing during a specified period of power. This will be an extremely rich field for research for journalists, experts and so on. As soon as there was supervision in the public sector, it turned out that there were court companies. When one authority comes, their business blossoms, when another authority comes, it goes down like this, and then it grows to others. What will happen is that this will also be looked at for state-owned companies, where all these years they thought they could do whatever they wanted. And when we talk these days about raising VAT – what is one of the main reasons why we are who we are and we are happy that Positive Slovenia is also against raising VAT, because we must not go through the line of least resistance, but the situation must force us to look for money where it is. And believe me, there's a lot of it in state-owned companies, maybe even the most, because at least they're under control and the least detailed rules apply to them, the most money can flow there. Third real reason for my interpolation. Some concern the public about bad credits, however, is my intention to bring together municipalities, which blew up half of the Slovenian mayors. This, you see, is the real reason for my interpretation. But of course, this is also the interpolation of resentment and revenge. Mr Vogrin's insults, which I will say again, were not thrown by the National List from her parliamentary group because of a business failure, not something worth condemning, but because dozens of e-mails were sent to our client by bitter, insulted, disappointed, deceived creditors, which I can also show you. That's why you flew out of the Civil Code, Mr. Vogrin, and not because your company failed. What's more, here we go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u7	Thank you, Minister. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Vogrin, did you want procedural or something? [[…]] You will get the word forward in the debate when we make a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ms Jasmina Opec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Honorable Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! In the autumn of last year in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we announced the first intervention against the Minister of the Interior, Dr. Gregor Virant, and later, together with colleagues from Nova Slovenije, from the Slovenian Democratic Party. At that time, our findings focused mainly on the unconceived and, in our opinion, only a populist approach to local self-government, particularly on the forecast of a reduction in the number of municipalities, which would save 200 million euros per year according to the minister's words. That the figures were thoughtless and had no basis in the analyses and studies, it turned out soon after the savings were suddenly only EUR 10 million. Its original savings could only take place when all municipalities with less than 5,000 inhabitants of the map of Slovenia were deleted, of course with their population. In the Slovenian People's Party, we support the reform of local self-government, so we agree that it makes sense to redefine and redefine, to transfer certain tasks from country to government, some from administrative units to municipalities, some from municipalities, maybe to the country. However, if there is a tendency to unite individual congregations or where it would turn out to be possible for the congregation to work better and more successfully, there is nothing wrong with it. But this path must be the path of analysis, dialogue, consensus, and above all a professional approach. Reforming local self-government is a long-term project that requires more than one minister and one mandate, and in particular the inclusion of all key actors in this area. Action based on the current public opinion is undoubtedly harmful for Slovenia, for all citizens and citizens, in the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party. As we know, the interpolation was not successful at the time, and Dr. Gregor Virant was not relieved. Interpellation against the Minister submitted by the group of 10 Members with the first signed magi. Ivan Vogrin, and we are looking at it today, and in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, it creates a lot of mixed feelings and some concerns, because the content is largely not related to the work of the Minister. Thus, it is not worth losing words on the content of today's interpretation because of its substantive non-compliance with the function of Minister of the Interior. The information and documents provided are, in our opinion, a typical case for the Court of Auditors, which revises the usefulness of the use of public funds or any other State authority responsible for detecting and investigating such offences, if it is of course justified. Because of this and the fact that the current coalition is driven by an extreme self-preservation drive, which is why every determination of the responsibility of the work of ministers has already been condemned to failure, we have not contributed our signatures to the text of the interpolation. Your Honor! The responsibility of our politicians, especially in today's times, when trust in people is all that is related to politics at a particularly low point, is not only to take measures in their work that will make life easier for people, but also, or above all, to build trust in people by acting and acting. This requires a lot of effort and thoughtful action from us politicians. But we are also politicians only people who can make mistakes. But these errors, even if we have made them before taking over the political function, must be recognised and accepted. Misdirection by the public, citizens and citizens is the worst possible choice no politician or statesman should have. Even though Adrie Airways’ cheap airline floors, of which there has been a lot of talk lately, are not subject to interpretation, it cannot be avoided. Citizens and citizens have recently listened to excuses about avoiding taking responsibility and how everyone would turn to his friend to make something "successful" and that there is no issue in such conduct. Maybe not. However, when it comes to the suspicions of systemic corruption, which operates according to the principle of giving – ladies, the highest public officials must firmly distance themselves from it and condemn it, even more so if these officials highlighted certain criteria in the field of transparency, ethics and integrity. Let us only remember the moral teachings of the appropriateness or inappropriateness of certain Members, who, due to their actions, have been at the centre of attention and have often been called directly to resign. This was a record of the past before these individuals were even elected as Members. And the strong responses to the Commission's reports on the anti-corruption situation of political party presidents, which indirectly led to the collapse of the previous government, and some other cases in the ranks of current or former ministers. The principle and respect of high ethical principles and the setting of the ultimates or values handed down by politicians to other politicians must then apply in all cases in the same way, even or in particular when it comes to mine or ours. In the parliamentary system, we are Members as representatives of the people who have power in this country, those who confirm ministers and consequently resolve them when we feel that among our people, among our constituents, citizens and citizens, they no longer enjoy confidence because of their actions. In view of all the disclosures that have occurred in the past weeks, in view of the denial of the facts which later proved to be true and were later confirmed by documents, we estimate in the Slovenian People's Party's Group that Minister Virant has lost confidence, not only of the opposition Members, but of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the interpretation of the work and responsibility of the Minister of the Interior, Dr Gregor Virant, or the decision to dismiss the Minister from his office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u9	Thank you, too. Mr Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Respectable members of the government, respected colleagues and colleagues! Interpellations on the work and responsibility of the Minister of the Interior, Dr. Gregor Virant, are becoming regular points of meetings of the National Assembly. For today is the second time that Minister Virant has come before us, Members and Members of Parliament, precisely because of the visions of his work. If we in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia have already expressed disappointment at the first interpretation of the content of the interpretation, let me say this time that we were amazed at the content of this interpretation. And not because it would have been written so qualitatively, but the other way around. We expected the applicants to focus on the content of Dr. Gregor Virant's work as Minister of the Interior. Unfortunately, the content is read as a summary of rumours and innuendo, but by no means as criticisms of work supported by concrete facts. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we do not intend to define ourselves as such, since we do not intend to act as some kind of mediator between Minister Virant, who is the first to sign Ivan Vogrin's interviewer, to solve this on his own. Only two indications relating to the work of the Minister contain this interpretation. The first statement refers to political recruitment, where the Minister is to assist the former Executive Director of the National Gazette Janku Jenk in the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Steel Industry. It is also supposed to be a systemic corruption in connection with the company of the company PCX Invest. In the DeSUS Group, we cannot confirm or object to the above-mentioned allegations; we can only believe that Minister Virant has been assured that the appointment of the supervisory board of the said company was not influenced formally or informally neither as a minister nor as a member of the government, since decisions on the appointment of members of the supervisory boards are within the competence of the Slovenian Compensation Society. The Minister shall even ensure that Mr Jenk, as a prominent member of the National Gazette, has called for a withdrawal from the post of Supervisory Board for reasons of conflict of interest. The second observation also refers to the political recruitment of chiefs of administrative units. The Minister also rejected this observation at the time of his decision. He also explained everything in detail in his reply. And the conclusion of our parliamentary group, under the responsibility of the Minister, is the choice of professional staff to run smaller organisational units, specifically administrative units. As I mentioned at the outset, this interpolation does not mean interpolation as such, which does not refer to the work of the Minister. That is why we fear here that such documents will also be followed against other ministers, not only this government, but also in the future. And with such practice — we could even say that it is an abuse of the interpolation institute — we really should not continue. Moreover, we are confident that today's debate will not be about the content of the interpretation presented and the answer to it, at least not in the majority. She'll be running in the direction of the story of buying airline tickets at Adria Airways. Minister Virant will finally be given the opportunity to explain this matter to all of us once and for all. It is difficult for us to judge what is true and what is not. However, we are convinced that if the Slovenian daily newspaper is confirmed, the opposition will probably submit a third interpretation of Minister Virant's work. However, the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia trusts and believes that if the Minister were to be lied to with concrete facts, he himself would act as an honorable man. According to the opinion of the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Members and Members of this time's interpretation of the work and responsibility of the Minister of the Interior, Dr Greg Virant, will not be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u11	Thank you, too. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, I'm sure he'll be listening to us somewhere outside, or watching us, distinguished representatives of the government! Today we are already discussing a second interpretation against the Minister of the Interior, Dr Gregor Virant, in this mandate or in the last 380 days. Today's entire debate on his work and responsibility will certainly take place in the light of recent, new publications of his electronic letters regarding the purchase of airline tickets addressed to his acquaintance, then commercial director Adria Airways, Tomaž Kostajska. And in fact, these letters put the ministers' answers and excuses in the first interpolation on a lie, on a lie. Or not if everyone, but really everyone in this country agrees with a bit of socialist thinking by a famous Slovenian economist who says that Adria Airways is here so that people can travel. These newly published documents show that the minister sought some privileges in the form of cheaper airline tickets for his travel through connections and acquaintances, at prices that were several times lower than the price of tickets in regular sales or, as it were, for ordinary passengers. In his explanation to date, this fact has been silenced or even denied. This action is of particular importance to Minister Virant, according to the department run by Dr. Virant. In the area of internal affairs, the fight against crime and the fight against corruption, which has literally betrayed our country and devoured it incredibly over the past 20 years. The fight against corruption is therefore at the forefront of public, political and judicial attention in this mandate, as we hope so. The highest officials in the country, in particular the official who runs the field, must be a person with high ethical standards, without the slightest shadow of doubt about its integrity. Colleagues and colleagues, how did the Swedish minister react when she found out that she had bought a candy bar for her daughter by mistake? She stepped down in a moment. The Minister of the Interior in his public performances emphasises the high ethical standards that should be in force in politics and that they must be adhered to by every politician. And we add, yes, he, too, also Minister Gregor Virant. They draw examples, not demagogies. What's demagic? The dictionary of the Slovenian book language simply states that demagogy is "the making of false promises, the claim to gain confidence in people and thus political power". It's demagogy. The Christian Democrats of New Slovenia believe that the emergence of these new evidence that the Minister of Interior, Dr. Gregor Virant, has been given special discounts in the purchase of Adrie Airways airline tickets, based on agreements through liaisons and knowledge that he is being asked to give serious consideration to his resignation from this function, and that the Minister should be asked earlier to explain to us why he spoke differently in the National Assembly when considering the first interpretation. In the media, the minister defends that there are slanders and slanders, despite the fact that there is written evidence that he himself has been searching for airline tickets at particularly favourable prices, which were intended only for a specific circle of people, persons of whom he did not belong. The creation of Minister Virant strengthens people's mistrust in politics and public figures, so it is time for the Minister himself to realize his claim that there must be no holy cows or little gods in Slovenia, and to resign from the post of Minister of the Interior. The evidence of a reinforced media release also puts the Commission’s decision to prevent corruption, which has cast doubt on corruption in the disputed purchase of airline tickets. Now it is clear that the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption in the Procedure was at least insufficiently accurate and did not gather all the evidence. According to Christian Democrats, the Commission should also take responsibility for such a lack of work. However, we expect that, at least now that the press have reached new facts and data and evidence, the Commission will immediately resume the procedure and, subject to these new evidence, submit a new report or opinion on the matter. Here, exactly in this case, Mr Štefanec could prove credible at the very start of his mission and that he was a good choice. In fact, the Minister did not respond to the comments of the motioners on the Minister's human resources moves to resolve the two chiefs of administrative units. It is recalled that the procedure for the resolution of Mojca Kucler Dolinar and also Dr. Boža Podalič from the post of chiefs of administrative units was carried out on the grounds that the circumstances of appointment, I quote, "were doubting the openness and transparency of the procedure", the end of the quote. And these doubts would show the fact that they were appointed instead of chiefs shortly before the expiry of the previous government's mandate. By doing so, Minister Virant expressed his distrust to the then and present Minister and client colleague Plitsani, and let anyone who could understand. This reply from Minister Virant, who is in fact an excuse, points to the fact that it was clearly the reason for their discharge solely political. They just belonged to the wrong political option. Many of the chiefs of the administrative units are and are members of the political parties of the left political party, or also members of his political party. In these cases, the Minister did not feel that they should be resolved. On the contrary, the mandate extended them, one after the other, always without a public competition, although some chiefs occupy this function continuously from the establishment of administrative units to today, that is almost 19 years. And their work is not nearly professional and not good. Of course, I have many good cases to take into account. In Slovenia we have excellent chiefs of administrative units who are also announcing and protesting today that Minister Virant intends to reorganise administrative units, which would be wrong. For he himself said that the administrative units were doing well. If they're doing well, then leave them alone, why do you want to reorganize them? A number of complaints have been lodged against the work of certain chiefs of administrative units to the various supervisory authorities. And more importantly, these commissioners have never once crossed the board of officials. We expect the Minister to be able to explain with what mechanisms he checked the quality of the work of such commanders. And a few more words about the work of the Commission of the Official Council. For many years, it has been composed of one and the same members, who have demonstrated the quality of their work in the process of appointing the Commission Senate to prevent corruption. How and when they even checked the qualifications of candidates for public functions in the past? Can the members of the official council really be the authority that is expressed in the appropriateness of the individual candidate for an individual function and thereby justify such authority? If they have guided their procedures as demonstrated by the Commission's anti-corruption procedure, i.e. without checking the applicant's references and destroying the candidate hearing material, it is not surprising that a number of functionalities occupy persons with questionable professional references and with questionable personality. Therefore, there is a well-founded belief among citizens that the official council or its committees are merely a cover for political recruitment. We expect the Minister to present his position on the work of a member of the official council who participated in the election committee for the appointment of the President and members of the KPK Senate, as well as on a number of other special competition committees, and to request its responsibility. You probably agree that everyone is responsible for his or her work, including the work he or she does as a member of a college body. Especially if his work is illegal. We expect you, Minister Gregor Virant, to take an objective responsibility for the illegal work of a member of the official council, which belongs to your department. Interpellation against Minister Virant will be supported or voted in favour of discharge by Members of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u13	Thank you. Ms Saša Kos will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present! Dearly noted, today's agenda item is the Interpellation on the work and responsibility of the Minister of the Interior, Dr. Gregor Virant. So let me repeat, the work and responsibility of the minister. And all the material that has been submitted by a group of ten Members and Members with the first-signed Magi. Ivan Vogrin and nine SDS co-signers have little more in common with the work and responsibility of the minister. While the opposition of the Interpellation Institute is constantly abusing and interpellations are being invested in the current lane of the government of Alenka Bratušek, we are discussing for the fifth time today. And I'm assuming that this kind of opposition will not end, but it's only stepping up. Most likely due to the fact that interpellation is also a political tool and the use of these is clearly predicted. What was interpolation or what was supposed to be, as well as the substantive inadequacy of the interpretations we have been dealing with recently, was much said on Monday, when we also considered interpolation, which did not meet both the substantive and formal assumptions for treatment, only that on Monday, the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jernej Pikalo, was on the ground. It is obvious, however, that this will have to be repeated until the time that the applicants understand. Let's do it in one order at a time. 112. Article 112 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that ministers shall be appointed and dissolved by the State Assembly on a proposal from the Prime Minister and in Article 114 that ministers shall be jointly responsible for the work of the Government and each minister shall be responsible for the work of his own ministry. The Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also provides that ministers are responsible for the decisions and positions of the government and for their implementation, for their decision to run ministries, and for the suspension of the measures they should take. The Minister shall, in accordance with the policy adopted, lead and represent the Ministry, provide political guidance for the work of the Ministry and its bodies, supervise their work, issue regulations and other acts within the competence of the Ministry and its bodies and carry out other tasks laid down by law or other legislation. Next. Article 118 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia also provides for two different forms of interpretation, i.e. interpretation of the work of the government and interpretation of the work of the individual minister, which provides that at least 10 members of the national assembly may initiate interpretation of the work of the government or of the individual minister. However, as can be seen from the input of the intervention, in this case it is not so much an obvious matter as to refer to the work of the Minister and to his political responsibility, but rather to the general debate on the Minister as such, the party from which he comes, as well as his client colleagues, even other ministers. The applicants condemn him first for corruption, then state the suspicions of crimes, and the annexes lack only a written conviction. Interpellation should therefore, in accordance with its basic purpose, refer only to the work of the Minister and to the field of his department. In any event, therefore, the interpolation is not submitted in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and is even less invested in accordance with the main purpose of the Interpellation Institute. Interpellation is an established parliamentary institution of parliamentary control over the functioning of a government or individual minister whose framework is already laid down in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia itself. However, in the interpretation, Parliament should raise formal questions to which the government or the minister must answer and thus justify its policy. On the basis of the accompanying material, such a discussion cannot be concluded at all. In view of the fact that the interpretation is directed against the minister of one of the principal state-of-the-art ministries, investors would be expected to have a reasonable and well-founded interpretation and, above all, that it will actually relate to his work and political responsibility. As is clear from the material we received, the investors made an interpellation for three reasons. First, due to political recruitment, clienteleism and, consequently, corruption. Secondly, due to the suspicion of criminal services and the introduction of systemic corruption, abuse of the position and counterfeiting of official documents. And thirdly, due to double standards or situational morality. As part of the first statement, investors state that by supporting higher taxes, the minister acted against the promises and expectations of voters and put his own political ambitions at the forefront. In this way, the Minister is expected to prove that political opportunism, self-interest and double criteria over the values and working methods expected of the Minister. In such a sense, this observation should refer to the work and competences that the Minister of the Interior has, I do not know, but it will certainly be up to the voters to decide in the next elections. Furthermore, investors point out that the Minister has scolded his time over the recruitment of previous governments and political Februarys, and used the criticised manoeuvres as soon as possible. The notice refers to the appointment of Janko Jenk to the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian steel industry. In view of the fact that the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board is within the competence of the Slovenian Compensation Society and not the Minister of Home Affairs, this statement also does not refer to the work or responsibility of the Minister. The next observation by investors is that Dr. Gregor Virant supported Minister Sam Omerzel. The paper states that Gregor Virant, as the Minister of the Interior, who leads and directs the work of the police, should not support Minister Omerzel, because, I quote, "the situation where the Minister of the Interior is someone who in public defends his client colleague and the minister of the government, and there is a criminal investigation under which Minister Gregor Virant can, in accordance with the Police Act, influence, at least in terms of delaying the procedure and thus delaying, is contrary to the expected integrity that the Minister must provide in his work." In doing so, investors refer to the provisions of the Police Act which ceased to apply during the previous government, which again indicates that investors have not gone too far into the mere content of the interpretation. However, the Police Organization and Work Act provides that the Ministry shall, in relation to the police, establish development, organisational, human resources and other basic guidelines for the work of the police, carry out professional tasks in the management of personnel, financial and logistical support resources for the police, carry out professional tasks in the management of actual police assets, direct and supervise the performance of police tasks and powers, carry out tasks relating to complaints by individuals about the work of police officers, propose, direct and coordinate certain tasks of international police cooperation and carry out other tasks in accordance with the law. In accordance with the Law on Police Tasks and Powers, however, police officers carry out police duties or use police powers under official duties, the order of the police chief and the task of the court, the state prosecutor or other authority empowered by the law to do so. In view of the fact that nine co-signatures of interpretation come from the SDS, which has already had several interior ministers of their kind, I sincerely hope that the findings do not come from their own experience. Second point of interpolation. I hope that it has also been transmitted to the authorities responsible for the prosecution of criminal offences, as investors indicate the suspicion of a crime and the introduction of systemic corruption, the abuse of the situation and the falsification of official documents. I am convinced that investors are well aware that the National Assembly is not competent to decide whether there are sufficient grounds for the imposition of criminal proceedings, and even less so as to determine the guilt of individuals and to carry out individual evidence which is not available in the material anyway. The suspicion of a criminal offence relates to the conclusion of an alleged fictitious contract in the field of professional assistance to Members and the issuance of a false report on the work carried out, thereby obtaining the unlawful benefit of the Minister. As can be seen from the material, not only was the contract not only concluded at the time when Dr Gregor Virant was Minister of the Interior, but it was supposed to be concluded even in the time of the previous government. Just in case, let me repeat the title of today's item Interpellation on the work and responsibility of the Minister of the Interior, and no, it is not directed against Dr. Vinko Gorenak. The third point, and the last point, you will not believe, even relates to the work of the Minister of the Interior and also to the time when he was already Minister of the Interior. It refers to the resignation of Boža Podalič and Mojce Kucler Dolinar from the posts of chiefs of administrative units, but, as far as this is concerned, investors are already admitting that none of the discharges have been wrong, since the Minister is allowed to do so by law, so I do not think that any further justification or explanation is necessary, since the event from the Minister is whether the harmful or the irregular result has occurred in an institutional sphere directly subordinated to the Minister or a sphere to which the Minister can affect only indirectly. It further states that, in the event of serious irregularities against the Minister, the National Assembly may initiate an interpolation, in which case it may, in the extreme case, also give him an untrustworthy statement or discharge him directly from office. It also identifies the difference between the institution of the question of the Member State and the interpolation institute, which includes questions about a principled issue of political nature, while the question of the Member State usually refers to a particular situation. It means some kind of intermediate means between the question of the Member State and the vote on non-trust. We can conclude from this that not only are the references in the material not suitable for interpretation, but they are not suitable for asking the question. But all of this, this week has already been warned. Not only was it warned, we discussed this Monday from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. On the basis of everything I have said, it is clear that this is another abuse of the interpolation institute. The content itself only touches the work and responsibilities of the Minister for Home Affairs, and the evidence is unfounded, without legal arguments and without any evidence to support the evidence. That is why, in the Group of Members of the Positive Slovenia, we decided not to participate in the discussion further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u15	Thank you, too. Mag. Branko Grims will present the views of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u16	Respectable. I'll get everybody a nice round of applause! Today, the Prime Minister of the Government, Mrs Alenka Bratušek, defended in his opening address Mr Virant, saying that not discussing this interpretation would help to, I quote, "normalisation of political space". And she said that there were solutions and advancements in the Slovenian economy, and you just attributed it. Allow only one minor warning to these words. The entire government, with Mr Virant, is currently a co-creator of an incredible EUR 28.8 billion debt, which is transferred to the Slovenian economy, the Slovenian entrepreneurial economy and the next generation. For every child who hangs in a cradle, this government lays 14 000 euros in debt in the cradle, for one car that this government has already "started", and the child will pay for it. Every family looking for an apartment, this government has spent 56,000 euros or one small house or at least one good apartment that this family will have to pay for and will never see. Therefore, do not talk about this government being offered as a solution for Slovenian entrepreneurship. You're not the solution, you're the problem! In this regard and in this context, Minister Virant has a very special place. For no one speaks so much about ethics, the meaning of conduct, and also sometimes the image of an individual official for the reputation of institutions, for the reputation of the entire political system, as does Dr. Virant, who again and again offers ethical standards, regulations and everything else. But no one in Slovenian politics acts as double as Dr. Virant, for he always speaks one but acts exactly the opposite. The best example of this is the recently published documents relating to the purchase of airline tickets, where it was all the time claimed that he had nothing to do with it personally. Then, from that correspondence we could see in the media, he saw that he had something else, because he did it in person. And now the question that you have raised in many of your opening remarks is raised. Does he then, at a time when he does not perform a function, actually, as he says, suffers at the expense of what he did when he was not in office? If it were someone else, maybe they'd understand that. But let me refresh your memory. When it came to some other people, for example, in 2013, Mr Virant stated that the official must have cleared, this is a quote, "clear personal and business accounts, otherwise he does not deserve these functions". While Mr Virant then did not in any way separate what was happening at the time of or at the time of the exercise of his post. Or another case, perhaps even more obvious when it came to a Member of the Civil Code, Mr Trudo Cinderella, who has resigned after talking with the party's leadership, read with Dr Virant, and then Mr Virant claimed that there was no pressure on this conversation. Interestingly, though, we were able to read in the media at that time that there were extreme pressures. Well, whatever it is, I quote Mr Virant that, I quote, "has set the highest possible ethical standard that must be in force in politics". Interesting. That is to say, standards when it comes to other people are extremely high, and when it comes to Mr Virant, they suddenly change. And why, in fact, it is never found that something is wrong, since he previously stressed that some are in judicial proceedings, the KPC gave a negative opinion on others. You know these things in a very interesting way today was highlighted by the proposer of this session. I must say that this was also very instructive for all of us when he said that the lady who had a direct connection with the former Vice-President of the KPK provided services and was co-owner of the company that provided services for the National Gazette. Which President was probably at that very moment, or just before or after that, the subject of an investigation. And look at the miracle, it was this vice-president who, at the time of Mr Virant's ministry, suddenly became one of the leaders at the New Ljubljana Bank, which is owned by the majority state and is saved by taxpayers' money. If I use the words of a former high-ranking official, Vice-President of the LDS, "the employment of the Property of the Year in the New Ljubljana Bank is probably not a crime, but it is certainly a big mess". And that's why, ladies and gentlemen, this is an interpolation. For all that is and has happened in the time we are talking about, this is the time of the current government, in which, as it is said, Minister Virant has a very special position. You have already witnessed today when Mr Virant discussed this in a similar way to the previous President of the Government, how extremely professional and effective the police are. Actually, I'm just attaching it to him. But you know, this is also the same misunderstanding that I highlighted in the introduction when I talked about Mrs Bratušek, who was trying to promote herself as the savior of Slovenian entrepreneurship, which is actually being burdened by her government every day with new and new taxes to the point that they simply do not endure it anymore, are no longer competitive and there is a setback. In fact, we are saved only by the fact that we are members of the European Union, of the euro area and that the European Union as a whole has been making progress for a long time. In Germany, there have been two development cycles at this time, and Germany is our largest development partner. Finally, after a terrible fall, some of this also began to be reflected in Slovenia. But it is not thanks to this government, it is thanks to circumstances that go, thank God, Slovenia or Slovenian entrepreneurship for its benefit. While the Slovenian government, I stress once again, is not the solution to Slovenian entrepreneurship, but a problem such as it is, because it is spending too much because it is burdening with ever-new and new taxes, with ever-new and new taxes just this Slovenian economy. And also that lesson in the Constitutional Court, when the President of the Government actually received a constitutional non-disclosure, because the law to which she bound her confidant obviously did not fall. In this case, when we're talking about the police, we're talking about the same thing. The fact that the police are doing well, despite such a minister as he is, is only proof of the high competence and professionality of the Slovenian police, not of his personal merit, as he was trying to promote here. What do you think his credit is for? That there are a number of very controversial things that have been shown here today by the proposer of this session, that this is a very interesting business that could probably be subject to some very detailed review, but that might not be so much a point in the eye if these things did not have a continuation during this period, when he is a minister and when he is also responsible for whatever he is also responsible for, of course, explicitly and personally responsible for the area that he covers. As a member of the government, however, he is also responsible for everything else that is going on. And no one will convince me that he has not been informed that he has been in a company with money-saved taxpayers read in the New Ljubljana Bank, suddenly employed by Mr. Rok Praprotnik, deputy head of the KPK, who has collapsed some of them in such a vehement manner, and some do not notice that anything would be wrong. But the measurements should be the same for everyone. That's awkward, isn't it? This could be the subject of a police investigation after all. I personally think there are some elements to criminal behavior here. Corruption after the amendment of the Penal Code and certain corrupt acts in particular are now covered by the Penal Code, a new one adopted by the government of Janez Janša at the end of its term of office, and is modern and very well regulated in a European comparable way. So it'll be very interesting here if the criteria are the same for everyone. When we move on to this interpretation, we can also find that much of what has been presented is presented in the way that what you are doing yourself is attributed to others. Mr Virant, at some point in his defense, pleaded for himself when he used the expression cleaning, he spoke specifically about the Maribor administrative unit, if you listened carefully to him, that there was a lot to clean up. This is a very interesting expression if it is used by politicians when they talk about human resources exchanges, which means that for a moment there is a way of thinking. And in this light, of course, also his defense in the light of his own words, his defense of his conduct, when it came to replacing the two already appointed chiefs or chief of staff and chief of the administrative unit, who could not even perform his mandate honestly, and he has already replaced them, of course, reflect exactly what he said here when he used the term cleansing. This, of course, is a political decision. This has nothing to do with the expert then. And that's really what this was about. However, if it is a political criterion that no longer has any connection with the profession, then of course it can be the subject of interpolation because it is an obvious abuse of the function performed by that individual. In this case, it is Mr Virant, who has ethics and expertise in politics, let us repeat this several times more, so extremely much to say over and over again. I quote him once again when it came to his own Member, Mrs Trudo Cinderella, "that he should always be the highest possible ethical standard that must be in force in politics". And let the Minister show it to himself and let him resign here today and finally go. I think this would be extremely useful for politics. Everything else you could hear in the opening address is clearly true. And at that time, we could have already reproduced some of the documents, the ones you want will certainly be yours, copy them, say, about this workshop, at least the plan for it, as it was presented, it's just the lady we were talking about before, and everything else that the proposaler was talking about. All is supported by relevant documents. Now, if Mr. Minister points to other members of his party, if they are responsible, when it comes to any other cases, this same Mr. Virant has attributed everything anyone has done to the leadership of that party. Especially the President. In a given case, he has slightly forgotten this, but he will have to get used to it once and for all the same criteria, and if he wants to set them up for others, he must first and foremost by himself. Previously, he was expected to be supported by the coalition on his part. Something like that was understood by the President of the Government. Only in this case is one thing open here. I am not so sure that everyone in the government is so excited about the double criteria that are always showing up in Mr Virant's way of working. Those who agree to this and who consider Mr Virant to be an excellent symbol of this government, because he speaks one and works the opposite, will certainly support him. Those who do not agree will likely express this in a different way. The interpolation document sets out specific solutions and problems that form the basis for this interpolation. For the first time in history, we received such a drinking response that it could be printed on both sides. This, of course, was different in the past. Which, in my opinion, is a simple fact that there were no arguments to be put on the table. And that's why today this opening presentation of the Minister himself was so aggressive, because if you don't have any arguments, then of course you'll resort to aggression. However, in the present case, he could not have had arguments because this is a question of whether the government is owned by someone who uses double criteria, who also in his own speech uses the expression “cleaner” to send someone to clean up, of course he has always denied it, or is such a person referring to a ministerial office. I'm saying no. It is only responsible that such a person would no longer perform his functions, not in this government or in any other government. In future governments, people will be responsible for the elections. And there I am confident that there will be a moment of truth for Mr Virant and for all those who will support him. On the other hand, I fear that the moment of truth is coming for all of us at this moment because of the difficult circumstances in which we are, and in which so much less should never be room for double criteria, for speaking one thing but doing something completely different. And the symbol of that is indeed Mr Virant. I've quoted some of this before. I can find many other similar statements that you all know very well. But you probably also know that everyone is always backing up his proposals to regulate everything with rules that would then talk about ethics and ethical standards and values. As for this, we could look at the question of how to refresh the memory of just the last thing, the airline cards, when they were said, I had nothing to do with it. Then the documents were published. Not only did he have it, but he's the one who's done it himself. It was for cards that are not accessible to ordinary citizens at all, nor for officials. That's interesting. These are cards that are only accessible to employees in Adria Airways, members of their families, for example, if they go somewhere to take them with them and no one but Mr. Virant. That's very interesting. By not actually doing this at a time when he was completely out of politics, because before that he was already Secretary of State and Minister. And in that period, he was, under the terms, "a little bit on hold" before he continued his career. It is said that there is no way to agree to the claim that he had nothing to do with it at the time. He was just present in politics and this is it. And as he himself said, the official has to have his personal and business accounts cleared, or he doesn't deserve this function. The better self-criticism he said to himself, though, he couldn't say at all. In addition, let me remind you that Mr Virant has just made it clear to everyone that this is an abuse because taxpayers are paying our salaries. We are obliged by the stop to warn if we assess that something is wrong in the country, that something is not right in the work of the government. And if something's wrong with a minister in particular, there's a constitutional interpolation for that. And that's what we used. That is, it is precisely the realization of what is right and duty after the stop. But if we're talking about abuse, you know, that was for a moment with Mr. Virant when he was picking up our paychecks, as if we were watching that famous Serbian movie when he sang it there. But who was that official who was always fighting the abuse of parliamentary or functional privileges, and then, as a former minister, drew 66 and several thousand euros at the same time, after writing the media, earned 95 thousand euros with various advices, work in college and so on? This is a pure abuse of this institution, because this institution is intended for those who cannot find work, they could not otherwise find means of survival to maintain some standard because they have done something for this country. However, if they earn even more at that time than they received there, it is a pure abuse of this institute. And such a person does not have the slightest right to speak to anyone at any time, not about ethics or morality, but at least to pay and talk about his privileges, for everyone would first be able to clean up before his own threshold and Mr Virant first. And if we are talking about normalisation of the political space – this term used earlier by Mrs Alenka Bratušek – the greatest contribution to normalising the political space would be if this coalition and the government had already left and had elections. Until then, the normalisation of the political space can also be done within the current framework by voting today for interpolation and for Dr Virant's resignation. We will, of course, do this in the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Mr Grimes. It's mag. Majda Potrat on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Mr State Secretary, Secretary and Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament. The working week of the National Assembly ends the way it began with the interpretation. Well, let's figure out how much good that does. 10 Members and Members of Parliament have initiated interpretation against each minister under Article 118 of the Constitution, but the purpose is broader. This is a renewed attempt to destabilize the entire government. Article 250 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly requires investors of interpretation to be clearly asked and reasoned question which is the subject of interpretation. This is where the problems begin because in the Group of Social Democrats we do not understand the questions raised, which would be followed by a sufficiently reasoned and therefore a sufficiently convincing and sound explanation, which would convince us to support the interpretation. Article 17 of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia imposes on ministers, i.e., "Ministers are responsible for the decisions and positions of the Government and for their implementation, for their decisions in the management of ministries and for the suspension of the measures they should take". In this regard, I quote Dr. Francet Grad's position, which states: "The lack of democratic tradition, both in political functions and in the political public, which is ultimately crucial to the exercise of such responsibility, is less responsible for the lack of clarity and difficulties in the exercise of the minister's responsibility. In the Group of Social Democrats, we do not challenge the opposition to the right to interpellation. But I would like to remind you of Dr. Mir Cerar's opinion, which I will refer to literally in two parts below. First reference: "In recent times, the question has been raised repeatedly whether often or too often the investment of interpretations against the minister does not constitute some sort of grading of this constitutional institution. It is therefore legally sufficient to submit them in an appropriate formalised form or to initiate a constitutionally legitimate proposal, but this does not guarantee that these institutions are being set up and implemented in that constitutional spirit, which is designed and required by a developed legal and political culture. Failure to respect this constitutional spirit in itself does not mean unconstitutionality, but it does mean the degradation of legal culture." However, the exemption, "when assessing whether the Minister is objectively responsible for a certain error or irregularity, must be taken into account in particular the following four circumstances or facts. First, what is the gravity of the act or event itself, secondly, what is the gravity of the act or event, taking into account the entire past part of the Minister and the Ministry or the social spheres, which directly or indirectly falls within the scope of the Ministry's operation, thirdly, whether the act or event has caused harmful consequences and how much damage the act itself is, or was, in itself wrong, but did not result in negative social consequences and fourthly, what is the distance of the act or event from the Minister, that is, whether the harmful or irregular result has occurred in an institutional sphere directly subordinate to the Minister, or in a sphere in which the Minister may affect only indirectly." And now for the second reference. "The Minister shall also present the basic guidelines or framework programme of his future work at the hearing, which further binds him right across from the National Assembly. In the event of serious irregularities against the Minister, the Minister may initiate an interpolation, in which case he may, in an extreme case, also give him an untrustworthy statement or directly discharge his functions. Such a strong commitment by the Minister to Parliament means that Members of the National Assembly must make every effort to raise awareness of the established principles of democratic verification of political responsibility and to develop such parliamentary practices that will establish as clear criteria for the substantive assessment of ministerial responsibility in individual cases." I therefore believe that each person must answer questions on his or her own, as well as those against Dr. Jerne Pikal, about the merits of the present interpretation. For the Group of Social Democrats, therefore, the key question is which interpretation findings reinforce the alleged failure of ministers to fulfil the commitments he made before the National Assembly at the time of the oath. We believe that in point 1 these findings are interfering with the area of the creation of the party's programme and internal party relations, which we cannot and do not wish to judge when it comes to weighing the responsibility of the minister in the coalition government. Social Democrats we have been addressing voters and voters with our programmes. However, we know from our experience so far in the coalition government that the power of each party in the coalition government depends on its electoral result, which is reflected in the number of Members and Members or the number of Ministers. We have already spoken about the interpretation against Minister Sam Omerzel, so we do not intend to discuss it again. However, as regards the relationship between the Minister of Interior and the police, the Law on Organising and Working in the Police has not changed in any way in this section, but this is a special chapter dealing with the relationship between the Ministry and the police, so it might be possible to ask whether the Minister's influence on the police may be due to the experience of one of the previous ministers, perhaps those from the party of the interpellation investors. At this interpretation, however, the question has been raised again recently, namely, whether membership in a political party is an obstacle to the acquisition of an individual function. It is known that the Social Democrats did not accept the offer of membership in the supervisory councils based on the coalition-opposing relationship during the first Janša government and that we followed that position later. Consider, for example, the withdrawals from the client bodies in order to preserve the apparent integrity of the management function holders. Interpellators should only have a little digging through the client's memory. And that's it. We expect Minister Gregor Virant of the Group of Social Democrats to fully respect the coalition contract, the Government's work plan, the Government's resolution on the normative activities of the government, to coordinate his views with all stakeholders, because that is the only way he will follow the commitment he made at the time of the oath. And counting on all of this, the Group of Social Democrats will vote against the proposed decision on the discharge of Minister Gregor Virant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u19	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Mr Richard Braniselj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, Secretary of State! Somehow I thought it was appropriate to dress in a black dress, today is not a holiday of democracy, today is a farce of democracy. We are discussing a subject that is not worthy of this national assembly. And we are actually witnessing the attack and disqualification not only of our party's president, the minister, but also of the entire parliamentary group. Interpellation is a sad and mature and responsible policy-making effort to discredit the Minister of the Interior personally. As such, it is in fact unworthy of any attention; it is unworthy of the man against whom it is directed; it is unworthy of this national assembly, as well as of the time and tax money that will be spent on it. Apparently, she's only worth her authors. It is addressed against the Minister and, according to its content, it is directed against all others and at least against the Minister himself, and it is also directed against this National Assembly. Like the Roman lawyers said 2,000 years ago, Ab absurdo. And the contents of the interpolation, or rather, of the discreditation, can be elicited in fact four fundamental findings. The first observation refers to the appointment of a former member of the National List of Mr Janko Jenk to the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Steel Industry. Who's actually running for supervisory board? Janko Jenko or Gregor Virant? What was wrong with running? Only that Janko Jenko was once the CEO of our party. How did the minister react when he found out? He asked him to step down. And then what happened? Mr. Jenko has stepped out of our party. These are facts about the first instance of interpolation and here is actually a whole series of questions. What did the minister actually have to do with all this? What else should I do as president of the party in all this? And most importantly, how a minister should act in order to avoid the eyes of the authors of this interpretation. They don't say that. And let's see what actually happened. Mr Janko Jenko has joined the SOD system as a candidate for members of the Supervisory Boards. He completed the requested forms, signed the required declarations, wrote the application, appended the CV and attached a certificate to the supervisor at the Association of Supervisors of Slovenia. After a while, he was called to the Soda Human Resources Commission. The Accreditation Commission, which has 9 experts and 7 experts, unanimously confirmed it 7 : 0 as suitable for the occupation of a function in the Supervisory Board. The Administration of the Court unanimously confirmed it to the Supervisory Board of the Court for confirmation. The assembly of the Slovenian steel company unanimously elected him as the supervisor. However, the Slovenian steel industry is in fact a majority foreign-owned company, 75% having a foreign partner, which is a Russian shareholder. And the Russian shareholder is actually dictated here by his rules of the game and he determines who will be confirmed as the overseer at the assembly. It was not a Slovenian company, the Slovenian state has only 25% here, and unfortunately, even this 25% is not necessary to have them if, in fact, the policy would take advantage of the possibility of withdrawing from the company and, in fact, for a good price, the contract price also obtains some budgetary resources. And the foreign private owner has confirmed this gentleman to the Supervisory Council, not Slovenian politics, and at least Minister Gregor Virant. The second observation refers to the exact same content as that addressed at the interpretation against Minister Omerzel, which was examined and decided on by the National Assembly on 30 January of this year. The authors of today's interpretation against another minister used the same evidence of Omerzel's business irregularities with Darsa, which were contained in the interpretation against the minister. These apparent contents have already been discussed and identified by the National Assembly. As the National Assembly has defined itself, we are all aware of this. And on whom is today's interpolation filed? Against Minister Virant or Minister Omerzel, or even against the House of State, who, according to some, has made a false decision? In the third part of the reading, the Minister's interpretation is evident not in the contract, the contract for professional assistance and advice of Members, or the letter of the Civil Code. He sees something that has never been in his jurisdiction and under the authority of his decision. The use of resources to provide professional assistance to the Group of Members is solely the responsibility of the Head of the Group of Members. I suppose that is the case with other parliamentary groups, and the Minister, then the President of the National Assembly, believe that he had other tasks, other obligations, other occupations, that he could not actually deal with these details, nor did he want to work, nor was he such a president to deal with the details, with the powers of others, and he trusted his fellow workers. And again, we're talking about the question of who this interpretation is addressed to. It is clearly against the leader of the Group of Members, but this is not an instrument that could be used in this case. In this regard, the first-signed person filed a criminal complaint. A year ago, in my office, a whole series of visits took place on this subject, from the police to the Court of Auditors, to the budgetary inspection, and some of the journalists did not, and we discussed and reasoned and so on. That is to say, this contract, which could be called a contract, is actually one of the most judged contracts in this country. And again, if anyone has a problem with this contract, come to my office and we'll go across again. I think that so many institutions have come into this detail that we need to be clear that this has already exceeded all the limits of good taste. Still possible with regard to the documents accompanying this interpolation. Yes, these are documents that have been produced and belong to the Group of the National Gazette. The former colleague is after having been for some time no longer a member of the parliamentary group, which went into our premises and what he copied, of course we are not hiding anything in all of this, and of course he copied everything that he had already done at that time, I think it would have somehow been considered. Apparently, he got caught up in these details and then from these details, an ex-colleague, an ex-colleague with some vengeful goals, he's doing his story. And one more thing, Alenka Vižintin, who was presented here today, a person with such a name has never cooperated with the Group of Citizens, you will not find such a contract and I do not know such a person and I do not know it. In 2012, the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette had made available close to EUR 200 000 for technical assistance. In proportion to the size of the party, it was the National List. And with these funds, the Group of Members acted rationally and economically, leaving 72 000 euros and 37% of all funds in the budget in 2012 and almost 45% of all funds in education. Whether this shows greed or here shows some practice that we need to draw on all the funds available from the budget money, or we are doing business by actually drawing on those funds, in cases where we really need these funds for the business of the group. And at this point, I can also invite all the other parties, or especially those who have signed their signature here, to present how they actually draw on this budget, and whether they also leave something to the taxpayer, whose daily contributions are taxes and taxes for the purpose that these institutions of this country also function. And there's one more thing. The explanation of this perception of interpolation is related to the indications of the use of the threat and the flooding of the obstruction of a police investigation. However, the latter statements and submersibles are not supported by even the smallest evidence, and according to their content, they are even more similar to slander. It's not worth losing words about. Not here, at least, in this place. And speaking of which, we're talking to the police. The police are an independent body within the Ministry, with the Ministry carrying out only development, organisational and human resources tasks, direction and supervision of the performance of tasks and powers, and it is important to remember the increasing intensity of the Ministry of Interior, in particular in the area of combating economic crime and corruption. And the results of this police show that the scope of the investigation and the criminal prosecution of economic crime has increased by almost 60% in the first nine months of 2013, compared to the same period in 2012. If I focus on corruption, the police in 2013 dealt with and concluded 62 crimes of typical corruption crime, which is 7% more than in 2012. Why am I saying this? The Minister here did not point out that the good work of the police is primarily due to his, but his contribution is that the police have the conditions to work well, to work well and to work on the mission he is in charge of. In the latter part, the Minister's interpretation is marked by double criteria for the appointment or discharge of certain chiefs of administrative units. It should be pointed out here that the Minister does not have unlimited discretion in the appointment and discharge of the chiefs of administrative units. The chiefs may be chosen only from candidates who have undergone a strict test before the Commission of the Official Council. The Minister has no influence on the work of this world. The Minister does not have unlimited discretion for the discharge of the Chiefs. It is restricted by the provisions of so-called Staff Laws, which the Minister has also consistently followed in the proceedings. And who, in fact, did he solve? The candidates appointed to the post of chiefs were some even 7 months in advance, but we had no emergency situation in the country to make this necessary. Where does this practice of appointing officials come from and for what purpose? These are the dilemmas to be answered by the interpolation authors before they reveal to the Minister the intransparency and double criteria in the appointments and discharges for which the Minister is competent and implements them in accordance with the applicable legislation. In this place is actually going to quote the famous Greek philosopher Socrates, and I ask the proponents: Have you checked what you wrote, if this is true? Is there anything good about what you're saying? Is that useful what you wanted to say? Again, I repeat that the Minister, through his pioneering approach, has shuddered against a number of pressing issues in this country, so this interpretation, as well as the previous one, is understood as a defence mechanism for all those who, because of his active and successful action, feel economically and existentialally threatened, are therefore attempting to divert the attention of citizens and citizens from good stories, successful projects, problems that are actually here and need to be addressed. They say discrediting is the best weapon when there's no argument. If the proponents continue their practice, this is through the abuse of this interpolation institute, then we fear that the interpolation will soon no longer be known as an element of democracy, but as a tool in the hands of hypocrisy. Finally, in every matter addressed by the National Assembly, it is important who is the proposer. This gives or takes away competence, credibility and honesty. He was a first-signed member of our parliamentary group, but later we broke up with him because of his problems he could not solve and they were burdening the entire work of the delegation. Apparently, he resented us, even though we tried to help him. We need to know that in the few months that our former colleague was a member of our parliamentary group, we actually had to deal with his problems more or less. We received e-mails, phone calls, people went to a client, all with the same problem when a colleague, your colleague answered our e-mail, answered our text, replied to our letter, answered our calls, where we could get it, and when he would deliver our building furniture. They didn't call his company, they called the client's office. And this is where we gave him his hands off, buddy, take care of things, take your time. As he admits today, he actually says that his companies were already bankrupt. We didn't know that. All they knew was that bankruptcy procedures were not even initiated, and these bankruptcy procedures, which should obviously be initiated and proposed long ago by the owner of these companies, were proposed only a year later. And it is sad that the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia had to do so because of the debt incurred by this budget and that it was not able to do so by the manager of this company who was responsible for these companies. And now we have three companies, as far as we can see from the media, which have blocked accounts and for which no one has requested bankruptcy proceedings. A whole bunch of creditors will be injured here. In fact, let those who deal with these matters decide. We don't count here any more requests for criminal proceedings. These are not criminal charges, these are criminal proceedings with indictments, with indictments coming for consent to the National Assembly. Always on the same subject – business fraud. In his presentation of this interpretation, a colleague presented himself as a creator in this country. Belcont created, according to him, a debt to the student service for EUR 2 000. Don't worry about it. Students didn't get paid. Oops, a mistake. A mistake, I'd say, buddy. Twelve natural persons, windows missing when someone took a possible advance. It's a mistake again. NLB State Bank – almost EUR 700,000 according to the APES data. And we're looking for a bank hole and we're flicking a bank hole. A piece of the bank hole also sits in the back of this national council and writes interpretations against the Minister of the Interior. NKBM – EUR 800,000, Republic of Slovenia – EUR 30 000 and a colleague talk about the country’s bankruptcy. Yes, I would have bankrupted, but this colleague also gets paid every month, so it is said that this country has not bankrupted because it has to work to provide him with a salary, and he has not tried or tried to do what is necessary to make contributions, taxes and so on, but, of course, repays credit to all those banks that the taxpayers had to pay in a generous way. Interles, d. o. o. – 236 thousand unpaid taxes and contributions, total claims, 76 creditors, 4 million and a half. Natural persons, spoiled consumers. Department of Health Insurance – EUR 10 000, Maintenance and Disability Fund – EUR 5 000. There's a lot of people in the back. NKBM State Bank – EUR 2 million. The bank hole is here, isn't it, in this national council. And as it is said, there is still a whole range of companies in the management of this group of successful managers who have blocked accounts for which no one has actually claimed bankruptcy and probably it is also a dead cause. I'm talking about the integrity of someone who was first signed under this interpolation, not just signed first, he even wrote himself. And, unfortunately, SDS colleagues contributed their signatures to such artistic work and also gave some legitimacy to what we are doing today. And it's very wrong to do it here in this way. I am sure that our colleague will be able to explain all of these stories that I have opened in the framework of the announced time — a long time. These are not insinuations, these are data from publicly published ICPES data from bankruptcy proceedings. Philosopher Cicero said this years ago after the Latin Minime sibi quisque notus est et difficlime de se quisque sentit – each at least knows himself and is the hardest judge of himself and the easiest judge of others. We will not support the proposal for a decision on the discharge of the Minister for the Interior and Public Administration of Dr Gregor Virant in the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Service List. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Braniselle. We have concluded the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. The debate is open to Members and Members. The first took the floor on behalf of the Magi proposalr. Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Madam President. I owe it to you to fix it. At the Propiar agency I said the wrong name and last name, I told Alenka Vižintin that this woman is a member of the KPK Senate of Mr. Roc Praprotnik – not Vižintin, but Mrs. Alenka Vidic, writes that she is a moderator and partner in the Propiar agency. Now, here's another explanation. I think it's really multilayered. One of Slovenia's main problems is that ministers, politicians are sick for a disease and the symptoms of this disease are as follows. The person attacked by this disease has the following signs. The attacker cannot answer the question, but he's talking about something completely third. The attacker speaks in exactly the same situations and similar circumstances in a completely different way. The person under attack does not recall the actions of the near past. The person under attack usually goes to someone else for his opinion. The attacked person speaks for himself and works for the other, for example, saying he works for the nation, but in fact only for himself and his lead. Six, the attacked person is nothing to be ashamed of. The objective justifies all means. The attacked person lost the ability to guide in space and time. The attacked person blames others for each situation and situation. And for the ninth time, the attacked person is able to make contact with only the same ones, i.e. infected persons, which is particularly dangerous. That's nine symptoms of primary envy. Now maybe explain if I'm going from behind. Look, of course Interles is in trouble. In 2008, 2009, we tried to solve problems. We went to the NKB, which gave credit, and she was our biggest lender, asking for a moratorium for two years, and we didn't get it. You won't believe it. I had an Interles buyer in 2012. It's documented. He went to the bank with this buyer, the New Credit Bank, we asked for consent because of course they were the largest mortgage creditor to make the transaction. I can't say it in public, but there are records. Do you know what the result was? We didn't even get an answer. So much for responsibility. Of course, I don't defend responsibility. I'm responsible. But the question is, how do institutions work from the system? And that's not the only case. You know, this case is only very public because I am a Member. We had a buyer who would settle most of our debts. The company would work again. We didn't get the consent, ladies and gentlemen. Do you know how many such cases there are? This country doesn't work! Finally, we have been to the lady who is now in the Credit Bank and has fallen from RTV, is president and is at the Credit Bank and is president of the Committee of the National Gazette in Maribor. I have her correspondence. I can't publish everything. I've published most of it. She said it was sad what happened to you. She was honest. She said, sadly, you didn't even get an answer. That's how it is. As far as the state works, I'll tell you. But if anyone's interested in specifics, I'll tell them. We have been indebted to EUR 236 000, I think Mr Braniselj has put it this way. Here. The IRS put us in bankruptcy. A neighbouring company from Radgona, which is indebted – go look among the taxpayers, and I will tell you which company is – 2 million euros and they have not bankrupted. When I was Mr. Mark Horvath from tax, he's lazy, I went to him and asked him why you put me in bankruptcy? We're among the smaller taxpayers. He said we got the instruction from Ljubljana. I asked if that was possible. Yeah. I'll tell you another story. Things aren't what they appear to be. I asked him, Mr. Horvath, we're local, we're citizens, how can you do that? He said, Mr. Vogrin, I'm not interested in your problems. We're just working on the letter of the paragraph, and it's not all the same. Look at how many taxpayers today who have millions of debts have not given in to any bankruptcy tax. Did you see that? Interles put the IRS in bankruptcy. And what's she gonna get out of bankruptcy? Nothing. The credit bank didn't consent to the sale, the company would work. The buyer who would buy the company has 4 million deposits at the Credit Bank. As far as debt and business and ability management are concerned, I would say, two to three companies go bankrupt every day. But you think it's really about so many incompetent people that people did it on purpose. Mr Braniselj, if you and your coalition did not have this opportunity to go to the markets every time you have a bank hole, you will go to the markets and prescribe this debt to the citizens. Isn't that cheating? That we owe 15,000 euros to children who will be born. Isn't that a hole? You know how we treat people differently. It's easy to be a big politician if you raise every time you run out of money, tax. If you go to global markets, you sell bonds and you owe a few billion more. What is this fraud of citizens and citizens to accept salary reform, progress in the public sector, where people are automatically making progress every two years, whether they were at work or not? And you're making a hole for a hole. You know, it's just called different things. I'll tell you about my business frauds. Totally wrong interpretations. I don't have any bad news. I'm just sorry it happened to me that I wasn't more careful. You know, Ivan Vogrin didn't cheat anyone. This National Assembly took my immunity nine times, and I didn't ask for immunity at all. On the last nine pages, I explained my point of view. No one hears, no one sees, and so on. He published it on the website, sent it to all Members and Members in order to give someone a little bit, why take immunity if I didn't invoke it. Mr. Virant said there were 16 charges. No, there's nine of them. Exactly nine times the National Assembly took my immunity. But all for the same thing. I'll tell you, about 20 clients of the company didn't get the windows, and they paid the advance. There were a lot more of them, and we've been recovering. In the end, there was nothing left to save. And these same parties are just 9 times, 10 times before any of them get here to press charges. This is only a suspicion of the criminal service, no one has said that one conviction has already been dismissed, one conviction from the previous one overturned, for the same thing, 9, 10, 11 parties have not received windows. Not because Ivan Vogrin would take the money. You know, the sad truth is no one wants to hear it. Thousands of Slovenian entrepreneurs and economists lost their assets by saving their businesses. When we were in trouble in 2010, I went to the bank, took an extra loan and demanded my personal guarantee. It's a personal menu on all the property. I signed it. Ask accounting how much I get paid. Nothing, guaranteed. And I'm not complaining about anything. It was my own fault. It's my own fault. But, of course, to base – John Vogrin is an unworthy Member because he did this and this, nicely said, is a perverted act. It's a pleasure to have problems. The family house was auctioned off by the bank. But we sold the apartment in Maribor 2010 and put the money in the company to save the company. Mr Braniselj and Mr Virant, what did you give to save Slovenia? What? You have not answered any of the questions raised concerning you and Mr Virant. How could it have been consulted from 16 to 23 if the contract had not been concluded? How was it possible that you made a contract for 30 hours a day, because the contract, basically, was concluded on 7 March and the annex on 23 March? You're not answering the question, you're just mucking up and pushing down thousands and thousands of economists who have been filling this budget for years and years have brought us into bankruptcy. I honestly said that not only did the crisis cause the bankruptcy of my company, but the situation, including my decisions, the wrong set. No, I think in 10 years, wherever I'm going to appear, the first time anyone tries to humiliate you, you take the dignity, you get upset about what you did then. And one other thing is very important to know that the company we're talking about isn't even an Interles company that has virtually nothing to do with it, it was really my company. But since one company owed us a large sum, we no longer knew how to get rid of it, we thought we were going to set up a new company, Interles - Belcont, where I was 25% co-owner, procurator, and this company was owed, but nobody cares. No one. All you have to do is shoot, mud and so on and not answer the question. Not by any chance are the nine symptoms of primary or idiopathic animosity well looked at on the website and wrote by Dr. Hungry Citizen. Look, Minister Stepišnik had to step down immediately, and he was dismissed. You know why? His biggest sin is that the economist is his entire life and that his company exports 100% is not a politician. For the same actions in this context, Mr Omerzel is mentioned and Mr Omerzel all excuses the objective. Everything. Mr Stepišnik doesn't matter, we can stop him, we can push what we want, one other minister, you see, it's a double situational morality. When Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič was the Secretary of State in the Cabinet, he is still my friend, I do not spit on my friends, even if I ever disagree, he was in charge of the cabinet of the President of the Government for somehow coordinating, solving all companies in difficulty in the Slovenian space, for making a model, for assisting Minister Stepišnik, for this was appropriate. Of course, when he wanted to go to Luka Koper, he was not suitable because he was not a political prostitute. And, of course, the next twisted act. You go to the control board and you say, and now I leave the client. You know you don't leave her if you used to be CEO. As for the leakage of documents from the National Gazette, Mr Braniselj, I know exactly how to count the members of the Council of the Civil Gazette, and find out which of them might be close to me, what you are talking about in every world. Nothing pink. But the documents came from your members. Ask yourself who you have mistreated or who you are mistreated. People are angry with perverted politics, lies, and deceit. And, of course, this has nothing to do with Mr. Jank Yank's political recruitment. Not at all. We all like to quote good thoughts, no. I'll tell you two now. And I'm glad if anyone tells me anything. It's just that maybe we can explain them differently. The seventh American President Jackson said, "What you're talking about is more about you than the others," the end of the quote. Of course you have to say, note the errors, but look if I attach all the documentation, all the contracts, all the orders, all the reports, and it can't match, people say, 'yes, because it's unfounded', but this is wait where we live, but if I know that when you go to read it, if you take it, you can't find another, because from 16 to 23 it's obvious that the contract wasn't concluded. [[…]] So the doctor and the lawyer with the legal exam don't know that the contract was illegal, and they don't even talk about it. After that, these are symptoms of idiopathic jealousy. And you won't think I made that up. That's what Dr. Perkins found out. This isn't Perkinson's disease, which was written 50 years ago by the book Perkinson's Law. That's where I drew it from. Then, yes, perhaps if we Members were on the ground on Mondays, there could be no counseling. That's not what this is about. And when we were in the National Assembly, it couldn't have been counseling again. That's not what this is about. And 30 hours a day. That's not what this is about. And it's about Ivan Vogrin, about his company, and so on. You know, companies didn't bankrupt Slovenia. The effect of the laws drawn up by Mr Gregor Virant is 800 million annual holes. That's 4 billion in five years. Remember. Four billion! And we're still doing this. I'll point to something else. Powerful experts. Is this or is it understandable to you that in the government doctors are law - I don't even blame the President of the Government - Vice President Dr. Gregor Virant, Dr. Law, is probably, before the government passed a real estate law, at least the law ran away. Yeah, and as a top doctor, the top expert should have found out that the marriage wasn't appropriate, and everybody said that. No, we're gone. Where's the doctorate? Shouldn't we all, the best, cancel our titles? I'll tell one story from another company. These are teaching stories. I do have a little more time today. Look, when a new type of window was developed in one of our related companies, because of course you're doing a project, and you have to give some more subsidy to this institution, this institution, and they wanted to have experts with them, and there's a proposal to make a team of three experts, and one said, well, let's give two science doctors and one who knows something. [[Laughing in the hall]] It's, excuse me, a rare exception, a shower I have a scientific title as a master, so I'm not just talking about others, I'm talking about after all, you know, a person has to be self-critical. Then we have strong experts. [[…]] In response to the interpolation, it was said that it was a complete insult. What, then, is the matter with the accompanying documents that something could not be done? If there are cases of Gaspar Gaspar Mišič being treated this way, and Janko Jenk is being treated that way, and Sam Omerzel is being treated that way. What is this insult?Oh, my God! This poor man Zeljko Vogrin, chief of management, I met him once in my life, I don't know him at all, but I happen to know him at some meeting. This one must have been solved because it's called Vogrin. [[Laughing in the hall]] But seriously, it was a great chief of the administrative unit. I've asked people a little bit, he's done a great job, but of course, you go watch the membership structure of the Civil Gazette, the membership structure, and you'll see where they come from. The State Administration is where this customer is fed. It's a typical party of state authorities. It's a typical party of state authorities. If you're not on the line in the government office, you're not a fan of this party, they're squeezing you. That's the truth. Let's do an analysis. I don't object to the analysis, to some of Mr Branisl's comments on the numbers, but I said why it happened. And all that goes against me is the initial proceedings of suspicion of business fraud. You know what business fraud is? I'll just say it. If you took the money out of the company and bought a yacht or went on a trip or it would be hard for me to prove. [[…]] It wasn't any of that. I pawned my assets for corporate debts, sold the apartment, put money in the company to save it. See, that's the truth. However, that I made the wrong decision in 2008 when the crisis occurred, we started an investment in the beginning of the year, we hired an additional 40 people, by Wednesday 2008 we had 40 people. And then all of a sudden, because we've invested a lot, we've bought two new production lines, we've built a new lobby for 40 people, we've had 80 people, there's not so much work, I should cut. I know it's a mistake, but, ladies and gentlemen, it's not a business scam. We should do the same in the country. We're going to bankrupt the country. Look, whatever it is, once again, I stress, it's not people's fault that they're employees of the state administration if we dragged them in for making a base for a party, a base of voters. And that's what Gregor Virant has been doing since 2000. Follow me. Follow! He's always built a base. Dr. Jože P. Damian said that from the pay reform of Gregor Virant, this was written in my book, and it was previously published, I don't know where, from a very difficult economic social problem, he made a fantastic project of political marketing. And you know when Gregor Virant spoke minus one percent in the government – in 2004. And if this is recorded, it's all documented, and you know where we should be now, and we're just there. We sell the same rotten apples. And just like he said, "The Civil Certificate of Rotten Apple Exclusion." Is Dr. Janez Shustrich a rotten apple? Mag. Happy Pezdir – a rotten apple? Dr. Mark Pavliha – a rotten apple? And so on. You know what it is? The rotten apples remain in the National Gazette. They stay, except for rare exceptions, so that they don't hurt anyone, there are exceptions everywhere. I can't be insulting. Of course, there are exceptions. They're exceptions. There are exceptions, even between entrepreneurs there are those who really stole. Of course they are. Of course, but not most. These are exceptions, and we need to prove that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Vogrin. The next is Mr Ljubo Žnidar, followed by Kristina Valenčič, Jakob Preseknik and Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u24	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I can't say hello to Minister Virant, because I believe it's easier to avoid the obvious by not hearing them, and it's easier not to respond to certain arguments. In general, I am asked whether Slovenia is even a rule of law, whether in our country there is a rule of law, or whether all citizens in Slovenia have the same criteria. It was Dr. Virant who was extremely committed to this, it is said, an extraordinary commitment to consistency, principle and so-called zero tolerance. However, when we take a step forward, two things are not as they were in his words. It is the power to track double criteria, which means, for some, for others. The example of Gertrude Cinderella — he dismissed her from his party and from the city of exile because of a very small official error. And if I give equivalent weight to the resignation of Minister Stepišnik and the irregularities of Mr Omerzel, it is said that two ministers – one minister has resigned, the other has not. Is that a measure of equality? In my view, Mr Stepišnik has unjustifiably resigned from the post of Minister if I compare him to Minister Sam Omerzel. Again, the question of the same criteria is raised. These criteria are set by Dr. Virant. You can answer for yourself. Further, the following comparison, the case of Ivan Vogrin. I'm not defending him, I don't know his business, but Dr. Greg Virant's minister has given a reason to have several criminal charges brought against him. Yes, yes, it is. But if I look at the equivalent criteria, Dr. Greg Virant appoints persons against whom legal charges have been filed equivalent to Mr. Ivan Vogrin's. Is this about double criteria or is this exactly the same? We see an obvious example of double criteria, for some of them, for others. Otherwise, I wouldn't mention the airline tickets mentioned many times, and I'm asking myself here again, is this all the same? It's not. As a result of my previous work from the local environment, I know this is not the topic of interpretation today, but I am extremely disappointed in the ministry's work and the treatment of local self-government or the municipalities of the Republic of Slovenia. Instead of helping the municipalities as their district minister in these critical times that the congregations are living on, he brings confusion into the local environment with his quick, reckless conduct. Ask the mayors. Slovenian mayors are extremely dissatisfied with his work. I'm also dissatisfied with the work of Minister Gregor Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mrs. Valenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! I am still on my own under the impression of yesterday's debate, which was substantive, constructive, analytical, yesterday, the speaker of today's interpretation said. We have competed in who will present the pluses and minuses of the new solution more eloquently. And despite the outcome of yesterday's vote, it was a successful, positive day. The day you're happy to be a member of the National Assembly. However, such days are not enough, since, like this Monday, for the second time this week, we are wasting our time and energy on accusations, insinuations and insults. For debates that are not worthy of the National Assembly. Too often we are witnessing the abuse of the Institute, both the rules of procedure, as in today's case of the Constitutional Institute – interpolation. And today I am ashamed and it is unworthy that the President of the Government, the entire ministerial assembly and we Members have attended the self-promotional presentation of Ambassador Vogrin, the promotion of his books and his website. This National Assembly is becoming a theater. At the first interview of Minister Virant, I said that we could expect more, given that practice has sent out, that those ministers who work and have results are being intertwined. And if I could understand the first interpolation as a defence mechanism of the opposition who, because of the minister's active and successful operation, feel threatened and therefore try to divert public attention from good stories, successful projects and minimize them. Today's interpolation can be understood – and under this interpolation has been signed by Mr Vogrin – as a reaction of an injured and offended person who has been called upon to leave our parliamentary group because of an unfair attitude towards his clients. I understand it as an attempt at the personal discredit of Minister of the Interior of Gregor Virant and also of the entire Civil Code. Discretion is the best tool when there are no arguments. The fact is, Gregor Virant is intrusive as a minister and as a party president. There's a lot of people who want to get rid of him, destroy him. Apparently, it opens and solves the real problems of this company, scratches the nest, strips off individual privileged juice groups, from which they are politically, financially or mediaically fed. It seeks to introduce into political space a new political culture based on constructiveness and cooperation, professionalism and expertise, credibility, tolerance and transparency. It has results and does not interfere with the concrete work of the police, the MPU, the prosecution. Many of the problems that some have consciously pushed into the drawer have been put on the table and have been successfully closed. Indeed, Minister Virant can stir the public up because he opens up real problems because he points to systemic corruption and the need for transparency. He always kicks ass for a good horse. And this dust raises the announced reform of local and state administrations, successful criminal investigations, the amendment of the Public Information Access Act, which requires public disclosure of sponsorship, copyright, donor contracts, disclosure of bad credits. These are, of course, the results of Minister Virant as well as these governments and these coalitions. Today’s interpolation does not talk about the minister’s work or his work, but he has abandoned his duty. Today's interpolation is supposed to be a mirror of morality and ethics. The politician stands and falls on ethics, there is often a phrase heard in this hall. We may not find a man among us in this hall who would not have made a mistake, committed a sin, but there is a great difference between error, criminal prosecution, an indictment or even a judgment. There's no way to generalize and throw everything in one basket. I've been walking some ants myself or killing some annoying fly, which is why I'm not an animal torturer. And today's interlocutor, Minister Virant, has no charges, no charges, no burdensome report, in any criminal proceedings. Which, as we've heard about the proposaler, is not true. Given the red thread of today's interpolation, there is no way to overlook the proposal for this interpolation. This role is important because it gives the content credibility and honesty. And I'm not going to stand up for myself as a judge, even less as an honorary judge. Anyone accompanying this debate will create his own picture and draw his own conclusion. However, I can only share the personal experience that I had at the time that Mr Vogrin was also a Member of the Group of the People's List. So it's our member. At that time, I was daily approached by the depraved buyers of Vogrin's windows from Primorska and asked me to address Mr Vogrin's request that their money be returned to them or that the windows be delivered. I was asked because Mr. Vogrin did not respond to their calls. And it's true, every time I was asked, I talked to him about it, I begged him, and he answered it repeatedly. I got a call from these people and they said he contacted them. And if you will allow me, such letters have already been mentioned by the leader of the sent ones, and there is a great multitude among the sent ones, and let me read one of them. "In early August 2011, parents contracted seven windows to Interles - Belcont and paid a 50% aro. The windows are supposed to be delivered and mounted within 30-60 days. Two weeks before the expiry of the contract deadline, it became clear that the Interele will not stick to the contract, since despite our repeated daily calls, we have not been able to find out the exact date of the assembly. There was no real interlocutor; we were only orally informed by Interest that a possible new delivery deadline could be the first week in November. After numerous calls and e-mails, we have only reached some oral explanation that the return is difficult to make due to the difficult liquidity situation. We therefore naively agreed that the delivery deadline should be extended by 10 December in agreement. As compensation for 100 % over delivery deadline, Interles produced three additional windows free of charge. Of course, they did not stick to this deadline in Interles, but they ignored us completely without any explanation. On 7 February 2012, we again called on Interles in writing to resolve the problem, but we did not accept the answer in any form. Since we have not been able to contact him on the phone, we have obtained a new mobile number, because at this time Mr Vogrin has become a Member. His father spoke to him and the gentleman assured him that he would examine the documentation and provide an answer by the end of the week. Once again, these were empty promises, as Mr Vogrin did not keep his promise. His conduct throughout our business relationship was in the spirit of deception and delay." And concludes: "On the basis of my own experience and experience of my parents I can say with certainty that Member Vogrin does not keep his own promises nor on our part is a trustworthy person. Such individuals should not have anything to look for in the Slovenian political space, even less is Mr Vogrin suitable for a Member despite the fact that each individual has the right to be loved and elected." As today's word or in this interpellation is also running, I have in my hands a report from the Commission on anti-corruption from 29 November 2012 saying, "Mag. Ivan Vogrin, an unrelated Member, has fulfilled the signs of corruption, as defined in Article 1(4) of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, by violating the principles of the economic and efficient use of resources and the legal person of Venester, d.o.o., or directly enabling other natural persons to benefit directly. The said behaviour of the MP is an abuse of public function." So they speak actions, not words. Let me finish. All the interpolation findings are unfounded and have nothing to do with the Minister's work. It is clearly the intention of the proposer to publicly mention the name of Gregor Virant and the National Gazette, because Gregor Virant is more than obviously a successful, working, discerning minister and politician.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u27	Thank you very much. There's a mag in the word. Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u28	Let me explain my last statement. Mrs Valenčič, when this was published, was on all televisions. This has been published on all televisions, in all newspapers, so nothing out of the ordinary. It's just strange that this application went to the tax office. The tax administration carried out an investigation in this company and issued a report. As well as this tax report you have received as a Member, all Members have received – because I am sending it, sometimes some are angry – all the media have received it, but you have not said it. And that the tax authorities found on the basis of a report by the anti-corruption commission that there was no sign that everything was okay. You know why, in my case, KPK reacted so quickly. I'm the one who filed a complaint, based on your case. KPK probably didn't even take his hand because Alenka Vidic, of course, is a member of the Senate. And I didn't hire a company that was related in any way. And, of course, it was all right, and it was also proven by the tax investigation, we got the decision, all of them got it. You see, this is a search for truth and justice. We just come all the way out here to hit somebody. And why did the KPK collapse? Because he had this way of working — selectively. Those who gave work to them and their family members were not mentioned anywhere that something was wrong. And that's just suspicion, and the IRS makes an investigation and sees if it's true or not. And she did, and you've got this decision and you've done unfairly now, because you've shown only one decision or decision by a commission, you should have another. That's it. Now I'm really going to drop in on Interles, the Interles Belcont. You have read well that it was an Interles - Bencont company, of course, someone must already give you pianic advice. Probably Propiar, so nicely diverting attention from Gregor Virant to Ivan Vogrin. What am I intertwined? I'll give you an explanation one last time. Of course, some of our customers didn't get windows. Do you know how many there are? About 20. The total value of the circus is EUR 85,000. I'm a bad, I'm still trying, you'll see that I'll be able to start my business again. I'm not obliged legally to give these customers, to the natural persons, money back. I can tell you, the company owes you, prove to me that I took some money from the company, and I would formally wash myself. No, I sent a letter to all of these clients that when I'm in financial condition, we'll either make them windows or pay them back. I did it, and I will. And we sold the apartment because we returned the money to the naturals. So you, the politician, once give someone something back. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] You owe it to me, Mr. Brultz, you owe it to me. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] The future! [[…]] You understand. So, look, I don't want to fight here, I'm not intertwined. If I did, I didn't go to read those letters on purpose now. Because when the interpolation was put in, let them show you in the National Assembly how much mail was lurking here. People send documents, statements. And I didn't want to deal with it. The press came, so I gave it to the press. You see, this is not my job. I don't want to do this, I don't want to read here letters that have been written by someone who's been encouraged and so on. And for the last time, I am responding to statements about my company, the business of my responsibility. I don't even have an indictment, it's just a suspicion and investigative actions are being done, and at the time of the investigation it will be possible to find that Ivan Vogrin is innocent. I gave the Minister today one annulment of the judgment and one application, which was where the court rejected the application. Nobody talks about it, but I posted it on the website, and I sent you Mrs. Valenčič. Look, of course, I'm still talking – and I'm going to conclude with this – I regret what happened to the company. But what I have to fix, purely ethical, I will. And what I can fix, I will. Certain things can't be done. To a natural person who is my company, no matter what ownership structure I was in, whether I was 100% owner or 25%, I'll return the money or make the windows. Just don't kill me. You killed me nine times in the National Assembly by taking my immunity. You've read my 9-page long letter. You can't kill me! And don't kill the citizens of Slovenia! The media doesn't even report how many suicides there are anymore. The purpose of such media torture is for people to commit suicide, despair, get drunk, lose hope. And today's interpolation – it's a question of what it's going to bring. Nevertheless, it is necessary to fight for justice and truth, although there is no hope of success, because Vaclav Havel, because he was treated the same, only 30 years ago, was closed, was all because he fought for justice and truth. You know what he said? Hope means doing things that make sense without expecting success. And this interpolation makes sense. Even if it looks like I'm being intertwined right now. And of course, it was also to be expected, because they warned me: "Don't invest in interpretation. You know what's gonna happen, because it's gonna fly after you than Gregor Virant!" But it's no big deal. Mrs. Kristina Valenčič, let's give some more of this ping-pong, and then we'll finish. On the board of directors, Gregor Virant holds the post of chief to keep your term of office running out, and then you'll be back. It's ethics. You understand. And then I understand that you must stand behind him even if you kill. Bureaucrat killers killed Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Your turn, Mr. Presecnik, please. Excuse me, replica, Mrs. Valenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u30	Since I've been challenged, that's all I'm gonna say. Live and see!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u31	Mr. President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u32	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I don't know exactly, I don't usually sound like this, but in today's session, I've decided to say a few words. But the first three and a half hours, if I am not mistaken, was mainly focused on some internal relations or disputes, if you want, within one of the parliamentary groups and on the problems of one of the Slovenian companies for which I am sorry, I regret all those employees who were obviously in this company, whose owner is one of our fellow Members. But now I'm asking you all together, have we ever talked about the problems of many, thousands of employees who have lost their jobs in individual construction companies such as Primorje, Vegrad, Kraški grad, only the biggest number, SCT and many others. We never talked, nor did any of the governments, unfortunately, deal with these problems a lot, but companies just went bankrupt. I don't know exactly what I would call today's interpolation, but all of it is, you have to admit one and the other, on all sides, in all the sent groups, it's kind of weird. But what colleague Kristina Valenčič said earlier that the opposition feels threatened, I must say that I do not feel threatened. Nor did I sign the interpolation, and even today's debate as my debate will certainly not lead to him feeling threatened. But it is true that I felt much more useful in several mandates in the past, even when I was in opposition. Now I feel completely, I admit, useless, because in most things I can't, I'm sorry, I can't help much. There is only one thing I will mention, and if the Vice-President takes away my word, it will be for me, because I do not think this thing is mentioned in the interpretation; things that are in the interpretation will be commented on in any way or so by other fellow Members. Nor will I talk about congregations that are obviously the theme of Dr. Virant, but it has already been mentioned many times, so I will not talk about it, and I think I spoke about it at this morning’s session of the two committees, whether it’s the abolition or the assembly of the congregations. I say that the tasks of the municipalities need to be brought together and not upset by people on the ground by abolishing and so on, the work that we do, our administrative work in our country, which is practically the only thing that works well, has little money left to do, and would work perfectly. But I'm going to talk about something that I've opened several times or used this phone or this microphone for it, which is a reduction in the country's presence at the local level. Or, if you want, it is more proper, the accessibility of citizens and citizens to the institutions of the country, anywhere. This accessibility is further reduced by each year, the possibility of access, some normal access to the country's institutions. And why am I saying this today when I'm interpreting Dr. Virant's internal minister? Because, for the first time, I believe - of course, I do not have this evidence - I believe that Dr Virant is not the main engine of this reduction in presence, but he is certainly the main promoter of this, and that is for sure. Engines are in individual departments, individual ministries and so on. Once again, why I mention Dr. Virant in this regard, I will develop this claim on one particular case. In fact, Dr. Virant, I think this was October 2006, opened a new administrative centre in Mozir. This was an investment with which the area of Upper Savinjska Valley at that time brought together all the state institutions plus the municipality in one facility, which had previously been scattered throughout the whole place, I would say, even in impossible conditions. And Dr. Virant then took this case as an example of good practice or good practice at this opening, usually saying, or an example of rationalisation. The same case was also cited by Dr Virant when, in the spring, before a good year, he presented the candidate for Minister of Interior or Hearing, as follows from a magnetogram, again as an example of good practice by the Management Centre in Mozir, where these state institutions are united. And what is the result, what is the picture of today? I'm afraid this management center will slowly become a house of fear. In fact, all the institutions are either moving out or moving out, we have talked about one of the past days, and there is no such thing in the tax offices and tax administrations among those who have stayed, but there is a deposit box for one lady who accepts certain roles twice a week or whatever she is accepting. Some, therefore, have been suspended and displaced, and some have significantly reduced their labour levels and the number of employees. This, however, can be called rationalisation, and I call it reducing accessibility for citizens and citizens. And why do I say it's not rationalization? I will only take the case of the Geodetic Authority, i.e. when in this exhibition the Geodetic Office left the office, because of death, one employee, at the local level, the Geodetic Office did not get a new job permit, and this minus one was used at the headquarters of the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia. And inside, a nice number has shrunk, as we say, but this exposure will no longer be necessary over the years because of the reduction in the number of employees and this institution will no longer be needed. But this, respected colleagues, applies entirely to all the public administration's exposures at this local level, and such local levels are as much as you want. And what's the result? The result is that citizens from, I don't know, some of them have already been 30 kilometers away from these institutions, but now they're going to have 70 kilometers or even more. But I was saying that because of this, I repeat, because Dr. Virant, I believe, is not the main engine of this, but he is the main promoter. And I'm saying it's not rationalization. And what happened in the past is good practice, but what is now is not good practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mag. Matthew Tonin, then the moment, Mr Tonin, Mr Tanko, procedurally. [[…]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. Madam President, today we have the point of interpretation of the work and responsibility of the Minister of the Interior, Dr Gregor Virant. Today we do not deal with interpretation against the Secretary of State or the Secretary of State. Minister Virant has not been in the Chamber for two-thirds of the time we've been dealing with this interpretation. He walks through the towers, pale, though I don't know what he's doing there, I meet him in this hallway, in the other hallway, in a hall where he can answer the eyewitnesses that the MPs have, but he's not. And I suggest that if we have this interpretation of the Minister's work, you simply ensure the Minister's participation in this agenda item. We cannot be satisfied with the answer, with the ignorance of the National Assembly. I don't know, he's not officially absent, he's walking down the halls in the National Assembly, but he's not in the hall. And do something to get this interpolation institute some weight in the National Assembly. It is also right that the Minister responds to the obvious. This is not the interpretation of the National List, it is not the interpretation of Vogrina, it is not the interpretation of the remaining nine signatories to the interpretation of the Slovenian Democratic Party, but the minister. And make order in the National Assembly. I am allowing you to ensure the participation of the Minister or to suspend the meeting for the time when the Minister is detained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko, for your procedural proposal. I agree that it is extremely unusual that the Minister is not here with us and that it would be appropriate that he be able to answer any questions, what concerns, but unfortunately the Rules of Procedure do not give me any tools to call on the Minister to be present. It can't be. However, since in principle I agree with you that, however, the most difficult time would be good, that there may be a moment missing, we will of course apologize, the Minister probably hears me and predicts that if he does not join us in a short time, I will interrupt the meeting to come to the Chamber. Now we continue the debate. It's mag. Tonin, then Branko Kurnjek, Franz Breznik and Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u36	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! If Minister Virant sat in this room, I would tell him why he had such problems or why it was the second interpretation against him. Simply because he does not stick to the simple river of the Bible, which says, "He who is without sin shall be the first to cast a stone." Mr Virant has confused these stones quite a bit, here and there, something on Mr Vogrin, on Mr Simčič, Mr Ambrožić and also on many members of Positive Slovenia. And it is likely also the announcement by the Members of Positive Slovenia that they will support this interpretation as a result of the throwing of these word stones. And perhaps if my information is correct for the President of the Government to place a trust in this vote, it just confirms that the dissatisfaction in Positive Slovenia, because of this relationship they had within the coalition, is very high, and that the species will be in line, it may also be necessary to bind the confidant. Now, the problem that Mr. Virant has is that one is his words, and the other is his posts in Officer Dnevnik. Now there are two important differences here, and every citizen is probably wondering who to believe, whether by Mr Virant's words or by what is written in the diary. So far, however, no efforts or complaints have been made to dismiss or challenge what was written there. We also have problems with many opposition Members, because there is a fundamental difference between what the KPK has found and what the Dnevnik wrote. And I'm sure if these things are cleared up to figure out what the truth is now, then the problems will be smaller and the number of interpretations will be smaller. But that someone doesn't get the wrong idea that I want to banalize this card story and whatever it is, this is, let's say, a possible potential damage to state property worth a couple thousand euros. I would rather focus on areas where there can be millions of damage or damage to the state of Slovenia. One such area is the reform of local self-government or the forecast of the abolition of more than 100 municipalities in Slovenia. I still haven't heard the Minister withdraw from this announcement to move back. The Minister has still not given up on those words. And if the Minister has not renounced these words and if it is written in the reform programme of this government, which he is a member of, on the sixth page, that something will happen to the municipalities, then I can rightly believe that he still holds the word and that Mr Virant is still in the position that the municipalities will be abolished. The reasons cited for abolishing the congregations should be costs. Here we now have two dilemmas, whether we are betting on local democracy or we are dealing with costs. The assessment of New Slovenia and Christian Democrats is that we can maintain the current level of local democracy and nevertheless reduce the costs for municipalities or local democracy. We have already said at that first interpretation that the solution is not to abolish Slovenian municipalities, but that the solution is to rationalise their operations, which means that the country should adopt guidelines and arrangements that would encourage small municipalities to share municipal administrations. Some are already doing so, but these procedures and these processes should be even more intensive. We also need to ask ourselves why these small congregations were formed. This was because the large city centers, the city conglomerates, had forgotten certain remote places in the congregation. Or, if I am even more precise, to be even more plastic, why is it in the former large municipality of Domžale, which is also a citizen of Mr Virant, why the municipality of Moravče, Lukovica, Mengeš, Trzin was created from this. Why? Because the center forgot about these parts of the congregation, and people wanted to make their own decisions about their money, what and how certain things would be done. And now we're shutting down what people wanted and what works well today. However, the arguments for this are costs and corruption. I have already said about the costs that can be reduced without abolishing municipalities and without reducing the level of local self-government by encouraging and rewarding joint municipal administrations. That's one thing. The second point is that the argument to abolish smaller municipalities is corruption, this argument is very bad and not true. Go read the newspapers, look around you and ask yourself if small congregations are problematic and difficult in terms of corruption — and the answer is no. Major corruption and affairs took place in two of Slovenia's largest municipalities. Not in the two smallest, but in the two biggest! And the most opportunities for corruption are where there is the least control and more money, and this is in the big city halls. In small municipalities, under 5,000 people, where people practically all know each other, everyone knows who is with whom in the roost, and everyone knows about every euro where something will invest, there are big stories and big opportunities and opportunities for corruption are simply not. I really expect Minister Virant to acknowledge and recognize this error in the reform of local self-government, but he will see that this is part of our public administration, which works well, that this is one of the parts that has contributed most to the development of our country over the past 10, 15 years. Go look at some old pictures, what the places looked like 15, 20 years ago, and what they look like today. I have relatives from Stuttgart who visit and visit us at the larger holidays, and when they travel through Slovenia, they cannot trust their fathers about how Slovenia has progressed over the past ten years, especially in the area of infrastructure construction. And now these things that have been good, that are effective, that have helped us to improve, and we will somehow end or cause problems. If Slovenia is a country that wants to bet on tourism as one of the main economic sectors, then regulated infrastructure is a basic and necessary prerequisite. And whoever has a vision, who thinks and watches in the long term, then knows that such an approach as Minister Virant has taken is simply not appropriate and is wrong because people have decided to such a level of local democracy on the basis of referendums. What — will we then deny to people this self - determination and this decision for the congregations? I think that as Democrats, and in particular in the Civil Gazette as Liberal Democrats, they cannot agree to these things if they respect people's will. Of course, there is a lot of chance that we can improve this system, make it more rational. I have repeated one more time and I will repeat it again, these are joint municipal administrations, where the costs of small municipalities can be reduced. And the second thing, which at first sight seems very expensive and very impossible, is the introduction of a second level of local self-government, this is the introduction of landscapes. The provinces would take over the function of coordinating these small municipalities among themselves because many criticise that because of partial interests and because of many small municipalities, larger infrastructure projects cannot be carried out because the mayors simply cannot agree on each other. This role could be played by the province. Therefore, there is no need for any new employment, no new civil servants, but only part of the tasks performed by the State through administrative units today are transferred to the provinces, and part of the tasks performed by the congregations today are transferred to the provinces, and we have some well-rounded whole. As I have said, I still expect the Minister to acknowledge his error, that the declaration to abolish the hundreds of congregations was reckless and unnecessary, that he would withdraw from this concept and that he would start doing otherwise. So far, I haven't heard you say anything. And as I said, in the reform programme of the government that we recently received, on page 6 it still writes in this direction. The second thing I would also like to mention in addition to local self-government, where I cannot agree with Minister Virant, is the area of regulation of the Slovenian public administration. If anything, then Minister Virant must be admitted to being one of, I will say, the fathers or most responsible for the current arrangements and the current system of Slovenian public administration. So what we have is the direct work of Minister Virant, either from governments before 2004 or from the Government 2004-2008, and also now covers this area. And the salary scale, the elimination of wage imbalances, this is all the work and authorship under which Mr Virant is signed. In short, if we admit to him that he is responsible for the current situation in public administration, then we must also admit to him that he is the most responsible for changes in this public administration than the one who created this system and also the one who is formally in charge of it today. There have been a lot of words spoken, a little less action, but I still think that everyone in this room can agree that we can afford only the kind of public administration that we can afford. Whether we admit it or not, today’s public administration is too large and also ineffective. That it's too big, they're talking numbers. If we just look at the last 20 years. We have to ask why 40 thousand public servants have been employed in Slovenia's public administration in the last 20 years, or why Slovenia could have operated less than 40,000 public servants 20 years ago. Why? During the crisis, when this country lost 90,000 jobs in the real sector, the public administration received 6,000. That's the data. And despite the fact that a long-standing and well-known unionist Struggler tells us he's ready to fight with the government, I expect this government to ask him, "What fight?" To fight – what – until the country's final destruction, to fight for the final destruction of the public sector? Look at this fight by Mr Strukl is very similar to the fight of a party that says itself is fighting for pensioners. And what is this client doing? This party practically does not accept any reform and no action, in short, to change anything in the country so that pensioners can have higher pensions or at least the same level of pensions tomorrow. By practically blocking every government so that nothing changes, it only achieves that pensions will continue to fall in reality in the years ahead and in the future. That's the truth. And if we have such an entity in Parliament now, on the other hand, we have a similar entity in unionists. Someone who fights to make no difference, even though he knows that this system that we now have is unrestrained and is leading to destruction. And the longer we delay with changes and corrections to the system, the more things and measures that will have to be taken, the more painful, the more regret. That is why I expect Minister Virant to take more initiatives, especially in discussions with the unions, to tell them that he pours pure wine on them, how things stand, and to make such statements that we are ready to fight, that we are ready to make no difference, destroy the country, that this is simply not going. Thus, I have not seen any indignation or disagreement that the Slovenian public administration is too large because it is most likely on the given data. My second point is that the Slovenian public administration is ineffective. However, it is ineffective because everyone in this public administration is paid the same. The garages, the ones that are harmless, and even the ones that are very harmful to the work of the state. All three types of civil servants are paid equally. The one who burns out in this public administration, whether for "barrier" or in some office for 10 hours or more, even at his own expense and on his own initiative, is rewarded just as much as the one who practically causes damage to the state by his decisions and actions. And that kind of system that we have is unsettled, does not motivate employees to do the right thing. And it's easy for a lot of people to ask themselves sooner or later whether it's worth risking my health so that virtually nothing changes and that those who are paid the same way as me are doing nothing are laughing at me. In the time of our government – I do not want to go back so that someone will again make any accusations or anyone has done anything, but I just want to introduce the concept to you. I recall that at the time of our government, we were thinking that the amount of money earmarked for the regression of public servants would be earmarked for the award of the most suitable public servants. In the system that we had and when the public finances allowed us to do so, the best public servants could be rewarded with a few 10 euros, virtually no motivation whatsoever. If we are to give serious rewards to public servants, there is a need to provide greater amounts. The only way is to use the mass that is intended for regression, which everyone gets the same, good, not good, in some way to reward those most decent public servants. These things were considered at the time. Today, at least if I knew, he's not thinking about it. And another thing I miss in public administration is more responsibility. Unfortunately, there is always too many collective responsibility in the public administration, so everyone is responsible, but most of the time we blame the politicians for everything, but we could at least try to enforce the system for more responsibility at the level of purely individual officials. I'll be back in 2012, 2013. You will most likely remember that the then government in the 2013 budget predicted a reduction in wages by minus 6.5 per cent. And this reduction has been imposed on the heads of individual departments, the units of public administration, so that those who run the individual department can best predict how and how the payload can be reduced by 6 and a few percent in their section. I thought this was a very meaningful proposal, a good concept, because it applied the principle of subsidiarity. The supervisors have the best view of who in their department is doing bad work, and perhaps the best way to see where to save and reduce things. But as the government changed, Mr Virant changed the concept and did not impose it on the leaders, but went into direct negotiations with the unions himself, agreed to some reduction, which he, of course, presented as a great or very important achievement of this government. Now, let us ask ourselves realistically, however, this reduction would have taken place, with only this difference, in order to allow our proposal to be reduced by the heads of the departments, but according to Mr Virant's proposal, this reduction was managed equally in agreement with the unions, i.e. for those who work as well as for those who are slightly less eligible. If I conclude slowly, I will say that if Mr Virant is the author of the current public administration regime, then we rightly expect him to be the engine, as many have expressed today, a change in this public administration. That this public administration needs change is a fact that the longer we delay with them, the harder it will be for us. If there is anything visionary about this government coalition, it must begin immediately with these changes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Gregor Virant asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u38	Yes, I am taking the floor because, as I said at the previous interpretation, when Mr Tonin discusses, he opens up topics that are really worth discussing, because it is content, because it is a matter of problems, it is a matter of state policy. And this time you have opened up the issue of public administration and labour costs in the public sector and the wage system in the public sector and so on. It is often said that, even in the National Assembly, so-called wage reform of the public sector has been discussed several times. And most of the talk is very much in mind, even in the media, it is mostly very much in mind. But I did a few days ago, I think it was two days ago, on Pop TV saw one very correct, professionally adjusted contribution to the movement of the number of employees and payroll in recent years. I was quite surprised, and it rarely happens that journalists take such a difficult issue properly and describe it. See, wage reform in the public sector began in 2002 as a result of the conclusion that there is total chaos in the public sector's pay system. Total chaos because this pay system regulated hundreds of collective agreements, laws and regulations. Each activity was regulated in its own way, each union had the opportunity to vote with its minister, negotiate some additional rights, some pay raises. And this led to a wage stamp that led to wage increases in the public sector between 1994 and 2002 faster than wages in the economy. The wage growth in the public sector has overrun the growth of wages in the economy all the time. And then, in 2002, the so-called pay reform of the public sector — the Public Sector Wage System Act. At the time, the government was led by Dr. Janez Drnovšek, the minister responsible for this was Rado Bohinc, and I was the Secretary of State at the Ministry of State, although in charge of the payment system, but I accompanied this thing and I think that this payment system was a good move. From 2002 onward — if we just look at the amount of wages or height, the level of wages — we see that the trend has reversed in a moment. From 2002 to 2008, wages in the public sector began to lagging heavily behind the growth of wages in the economy. This, among other things, helped Slovenia to take over the euro by meeting the Maastricht criteria. Negotiations for the conclusion of collective agreements in the public sector have been under way throughout the period 2002-2008. And it is true that it was not until 2008, in June, that these collective agreements were concluded. Why that moment? There's an explanation. There was a moment when both sides of the negotiations, government and union, knew that the train would take off. The election was near, the union party wanted to conclude an agreement before the elections, because it did not know what would happen after the elections, whether it would be possible to continue the negotiations or whether another government would completely reverse the policy or how, of course, the government party was also interested in ending and closing this pay system before the elections. And that's how the compromise came about. At the end of 2004, when I took over the negotiations for collective bargaining, the difference between the government and the union position was one billion euros. I've taken it from Minister Bohintz of the past. So, the government and the unions were apart for one billion. Then, through the long, painful years of negotiations, we came to the conclusion of this collective agreement, which was estimated to have been economically sustainable by the current macro-economicists, UMAR. And it is true that due to the incursion of wages in 2002-2008 that they were then, I would say that this accumulated mass was at that moment relaxed and was intended to eliminate wage imbalances. According to the household report, those who were bribed received more, say employed in culture, nurses, some categories of nurses, etc. Then there was a crisis and just a new pay system made it possible to limit wages in the crisis. Like any employer in the economy, the Government also had to react to the crisis by limiting wages, negotiating with trade unions, sometimes a little more successfully, sometimes a little less successful, once also apparently illegal, when Minister Krebsova concluded an annex to the collective agreement that has recently fallen in court, but the result, the consequences of all this together, i.e. the so-called pay reforms, is that, since 2002, when the reform began, the level of public sector wages has remained real at the same level as in the public sector. Thus, wages have actually remained at the same level, while wages in the economy have grown by around 13% in this period of 2002 to date. In fact, wage reform has enabled the wage burden of the public sector, in particular the level of wages, the level of wages and has ensured that the wage growth curve in the public sector is lagging behind the growth curve in the economy after 2002. Of course, the other story, which is a real problem, is that in all this time the increase in the number of employees in the public sector, except in one part of the public sector, has not been controlled. As Minister of Public Administration in the State Administration, I have set up a policy of reducing the number of employees in another government in 2005, if you remember, and this policy has proved to be a success. During this period, the state administration decreased, reduced the number of employees by about 10%, and the civilian part of the state administration even more. The administrative units for which I was most directly in charge have reduced the number of employees by 15%. However, the fact is that other parts of the public sector, namely health, education, culture and social sectors, have not been successful and the number of employees in the public sector has increased. More was achieved there somewhere in 2012, January 2012, for example, and this trend was reversed only by the ZUJF. ZUJF was the law that reversed the trend of growth in other parts of the public sector. According to the ZUJF, the number of employees also started to drop slightly in health care, education, culture and so on. And if we look at last year's data, we find again the same story that the most good in reducing the number of public sector employees was state bureaucracy, the state administration reduced by 2.6%, but unfortunately the whole public sector reduced by only 0.3% the number of employees. A salary of 2.1%. Therefore, the wages decreased by 2.1% throughout the public sector last year. Part of the reason for this slight decline in the number of employees is because of one important fact that the unions and I agreed to lower wages. We last year May with the unions reached an agreement to go down to pay. We have seen our salaries fall the most, i.e. to those in the highest wage classes in the public sector, Members, Ministers, Presidents of the Government, the President of the Republic by 5%, those in the lower wage classes, nurses, police officers, referees and so on, but the cuts have been lower. Just as in the crisis, when wages are falling, there must be some solidarity. And the unions have also made this conditional on a reduction in wages, and the government has agreed to do so. It is true, as Mr Tonin says, that the policy of the Janša government was to cut the wage items in the budget, and then let the leaders find themselves, as they know and know. Of course, this is possible to some extent, but it is not possible for the chairman himself to reduce wages by 5 or 10%. Why? If the government doesn't help him because it would violate the rules. In particular, the head of primary school, which is reduced by 10%, cannot just throw 10% of teachers on the road because it would violate the rules on standards and norms in education. Thus, such a way of saving is essentially a virtual savings. If you're just lowering the salary lines in the budget, without even lowering, say, the level of rights, so lower your wages, lower your allowances, and something like that, then you didn't do anything, then it's like putting your head in the sand. That was the policy. Let's cut the payroll, and then it'll be what it is. It wouldn't be anything. December would have run out of wages. And the commitments should be carried over to the following year. However, wages are an incriminating category, they must be paid. And that's why when I took over as minister, I saw the water running down my throat. And it was crystal clear to me that if I don't correct this mistake and that if I don't go into negotiations with the public sector unions right now, the problems will be endless. And I did it. At the moment we settled at the negotiating table, I said then, by May 10th we'll deal with, on the other hand, a hurron laugh, the unions said, yes, by then we'll barely get warmed up, but we insisted because there was a negotiating team on the government side who knows who's handling it. And we negotiated intensively, professionally, professionally, as is the case, and we actually concluded this agreement in May, which really allowed the wage to fall. And of course, a similar story awaits us next year. I say that the wages, labour costs in the public sector must be further reduced. I'm not in favour of radical action, I'm not in favour of forgiveness, throwing 2,000, 5,000, 10,000 public servants on the road, as some say, because that's not the solution. This only gives you so many and so many extra unemployed, you get the expenses of retirement, and you get so many and so many social problems for individuals and their families. That's not a solution. However, I argue that the solution is disciplined, a consistent policy of reducing the number of employees, gradually, a percentage, two percent per year, in the long run. If you are disciplined, if you stick to it, you can do what we did in the government – in a few years you reduce by 10%. And they must do so in health care, including in education, even in culture and in social life, in all parts of the public sector. And this is a policy that needs to be pursued. We're going to sit with the payroll unions next year in the short term, it's a normal process. Also, according to the economic situation, the management of each company, according to the business, according to the income, according to the union's forecast, is agreeing on the level of wages. It's something completely normal. As was normal when the crisis arose, the government reacted, sat down with the unions and said, look, the crisis hit, and now let's either deal with forgiveness or for lower wages. And the unions have decided to pay lower wages. And as we say, we'll do it for next year. The government negotiating base is included in the national reform programme – and says a salary of 5% down. What the negotiations will bring, and we'll see about that. The second thing Matthew Tonin talked about, which I agree with at this point, is that there are no stimulating elements in this pay system. So many people talk about the public sector's pay system, which knows nothing about it, that I will not use any rough terms, and we have one top OECD study, i.e. the international organisation of the OECD, which reviewed our wage reform of the public sector, which is not Virant's, by the way, I will not sneeze with foreign feathers, this is a project of successive governments where each share has merit and responsibility. And the OECD, these were really top-notch experts, assessed our pay reform very positively and, if I describe it very briefly, said something like this. You have made order with this reform out of chaos, but in the next step you need to open the valve a little bit and allow a little more flexibility. And that's our plan to move forward. We already have written amendments to the law, which will go precisely this way, to give more room for manoeuvre to managers in the public sector so that they can reward those who work better and more successfully. In what way? If you have 100 employees in your budget as director or as director of one administrative body, and you go into procedures, you forgive, say, three who fail to achieve the expected results, three incompetents quit, then say three who go away, you don't replace, and you don't cash 6 salaries. And the idea is that this savings that the chairman in this way could create so that he could use it to better pay, to stimulate, to better pay those who work more and better in the organization. So the next step in the changes in the pay system will go in the direction of greater flexibility. What the union response is going to be like, I don't think they're going to be thrilled, because, by definition, trade unions always advocate more than a level playing field and fear any incentive award because they say it's arbitrary, it's discretionary and so on and so on. And we'll see what happens. But, if I understand correctly, I have, like, pre-assured support for changes in the salary law that would go this way. Tonin also spoke about the efficiency of public administration. A great deal of agreement, therefore, I think that the room of manoeuvre of the Slovenian public administration is mainly in the simplification of procedures and in the change of mentality, and that is to say, an official, a staff member of the public administration must be aware that he works as a service for the citizen or for the company. This is what some have turned over, which has turned many of them over to this mentality, but not all of them. An official who decides on a permit, on a license, on a building permit, on any permit, must be aware that by helping an entrepreneur solve his problem, by helping the company solve its problem, by contributing to a better functioning of the economy, by contributing indirectly to the country's collection of more taxes and by creating its own bread. For his wages are paid out of taxes. And that's where we work. You know the Stop bureaucracy project!, which collects proposals for simplification of procedures, has not been done enough, never enough, but something has been done. See, on 8 April, in a few days, the amendment to the Administrative Procedure Act will enter into force, which provides that no citizen will have to comply with the application forms. So you come to the administrative unit or to the administrative authority, you say what you need, what you want, which right you claim, and the official on the other hand is the one who has to take this data, print the application, you just sign it, and it's settled. Of course, that's how it's worked for a long time. All you remember is your I.D. Sometimes you had to fill out a form for a new I.D., and today you don't have to. And many procedures are already running like this today, and others will. And that's a big deal. Deregulation. Reducing the number of activities that need any permission at all. Andrej Vizjak, he will remember that the first part of this deal was done by us together, which was sometime in 2006, when the number of activities in need of a trade permit was halved from 120 to 60. Was it like that? In the second round, last year, we split that number again. So, we're now, I think, out there somewhere, 28, 29. An important simplification for the economy that a number of activities are not related to having some formal conditions and a master's exam, but I don't know, a pastry education and I don't know what, but if you can bake cookies, bake cookies, open a business and sell them on the market and let the market judge whether you're good enough or not. It's a foreign law. I think that you adopted it yesterday, which regulates the system of acquisition, I am talking about what Mr Matthew Tonin was talking about, about the efficiency of public administration, about the pay system and about the incentive award in the public sector. That's exactly what I'm talking about. That's exactly what I'm talking about. The Aliens Act changes the matter in such a way that, instead of the situation as we now have, the employer or foreign worker has to go to two ends, one end after work, the other end after a residence permit, they will be able to arrange everything according to the system All in one place. So, everything in the administration unit, with one single role and one decision to be issued. So big simplifications. Stop bureaucracy! It's called a project. So if I conclude with a discussion by my colleague, Mate Tonin, I strongly agree, and precisely in this direction, as you have indicated, we are also working, not enough, but working. As for the municipality, we will never come together because I firmly believe that in Slovenia there are at least half of municipalities too much, even more than that, I think the system of local self-government in Slovenia would be best if we had as many as we had in 1994 and back. If we had about 60 municipalities, not like today, when we were turning Slovenia, we broke it down, we also "split" money and human resources into 211 municipalities, and there is no real effect. But after the last debate, after the debate after my first interpretation, you yourself saw that at the Ministry we decided to proceed gradually and prudently with the reforms of local self-government. I have seen that such a thing cannot be done quickly, the rebellion is too great, it will take a lot to talk to people, with representative associations of local self-government. It'll be a reform, but it won't be that fast. The first point of this reform will soon come to the National Assembly, which is the decision on the amendment of the Law on Local Self-Government, which foresees, inter alia, the recall of the mayor and that mayors in municipalities with less than 5,000 inhabitants would perform their functions unprofessionally. But here you will not be able to say that by any way of endangering local self-government or by violating the right of people to local self-government, the mayors may be indignant and hurt. So this was my debate, which was directly linked to my colleague Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u39	Thank you very much. You have a procedural replica. Matthew Tonini or you have, Mr. Jože Tanko, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. Now the minister here has told the public three minutes ago that he's not working enough. I agree with that, I sign it right now, and that's true. But I'd like to ask, Minister, to say something about Treaty No. C 1211-12-000262, which relates to the participation of your parliamentary group with Propiar, where a public performance workshop was conducted by, among other things, a partner or wife of Mr Roc Praprotnik. This has been raised, even in the debate, but there is no answer to this. The answer, however, is an important force, as many of the Commission's actions to prevent corruption in connection with Gregor Virant, the Minister, are in correlation with the probably signed contract. I am not surprised that — mentioned earlier — there are no findings on airline tickets. That a whole bunch of things Mr. Vogrin has pointed out are not answered. Here you are dealing with the reform of public administration and the public administration, and the municipalities – this is an irrelevant matter for interpretation, this is not the topic of interpretation. In my humble opinion and knowledge of the Rules of Procedure, you can discuss this at an internal meeting between a group of Members and a minister. The subject of interpolation is the evidence recorded in the interpolation and also what has now been opened in the debate, and I suggest, Mr Minister, that you first explain these conflicts of interest between the KPK or the KPK and the National Gazette. It was the amount, the contract was realized, the transfer was glass, the procedures stand, the innocent to infinity can be in such a way that with some state money received by the parliamentary working group, someone can, we suppose, buy some loyalty. I suggest that you also address these issues that have been raised so far. And we'll do the rest of the stuff when we're adopting the laws. We're talking about the obvious.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Here you go, Dr. Gregor Virant. Just a minute, Dr. Virant, mag. Matthew Tonin has a replica, and he's got a rule of order in front of you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u42	I would like to reiterate to Minister Virant that, while he mentioned that we are very much in agreement on public administration, he has forgotten one important difference. This is that I can't practically do anything about these things, but Minister Virant is in charge of doing a great deal. Unfortunately, Slovenia's Slovenian economy, however, cannot live from promise and agreement. And these successes, which Mr Virant spoke about, are simply not felt in the field. And as with the public administration, it may not be felt, I would point to another area, namely, Mr Virant said that there are no sacred cows in Slovenia. I only expect him to keep his word when it comes to Mr Petrič from the company Kolektor, which you know very well, in the meantime I have also received a notice that I should simply draw your attention to the words that you mentioned that there are no sacred cows in Slovenia. Nevertheless, some still seem to exist.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u43	Dr. Gregor Virant, Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u44	Thank you. Of course, you're in the opposition, I'm in the government, you can't influence these things, I can. And, as I said, we're working this way, a lot has been done, but of course not yet, and there's still a lot of room for manoeuvre. As far as specific persons are concerned, of course, the Minister of the Interior cannot have any effect on the course of the forecasting procedure, on the course of the investigation. However, the Minister of the Interior can and must ensure conditions for police to act equally professionally, effectively and neutrally in all cases. And this is my role, and this role I will faithfully and carefully carry out until the end of my ministry. So no matter who it is, no matter who it is, no name, no matter what. And that's what the Slovenian police do. I say there are no sacred cows for the Slovenian police. What's in the D.A.'s office, what's in the courts, I'm not going to comment, because that's why I'm not responsible, but as far as the police are concerned, but I'm sure of that. Once again, the Advisory Treaty for the Group of Members is under the leadership of the Group. I have nothing to do, I have nothing to do, I have nothing to interfere with, and I never have. But as for Mr Praprotenik, I don't know if he's married or not married, whether he has a wife or he doesn't have a wife, if he has a wife, I don't know her, and I have no idea about the person you're talking about. I didn't see her alive, or met her, or whatever, but if I did, I did, and I didn't know she was the wife of any Lord Procurator.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u45	Mr. Jože Tanko, you've got a procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Madam President, I propose not to bluff here in the National Assembly. For those of us who are related to one another, it is likely that we know who is related to another. Because the KPK also knows who is related to whom and also writes even a special laboratory, a special report which is from whom and also elaborates it. If you did not know in the National Gazette who is related to Propiar, you would certainly know this, Mr Praprotnik, for sure, you should. And I would like to remind you, Mr Minister, that we have sent several questions, including to the KPK, regarding the cooperation of companies owned by members of the KPK with state-owned companies. And the KPK refused to answer these questions. And I think that anyone who signs a contract, anyone who signs a contract, I sign them, too, needs to know whether they're signing them with a conflict, whether something's going on here, or whether it's a contract just like that, for some PR act. How would you not know that if you worked with the KPK on a daily basis to draw up guidelines, you have received preliminary reports from the KPK on the property situation of the party presidents and so on. You've been informed of everything, you've been correcting the law, and you're meeting them, and you don't know such important things. You can't believe that to one Minister of the Interior if you say something like that, you can't. The fact that you are referring to the leader of the parliamentary group is also a problem because this treaty was concluded when you were still in the National Assembly, you were the President of the National Assembly, a member of the parliamentary group that probably decided on the treaty. You weren't anybody. You were the president of the National Assembly. And even in some other cases, which you have read from the interpretation, you have been president of the National Assembly. And I suggest you answer these questions correctly. There is no need to tell anyone here, neither do you, not at all, because there are also documents in the back and we expect a fair response from one public official who has grown integrity by three heights over his own height. Nothing else, Mr. Secretary. And I suggest you honestly tell me why. You don't have to tell me.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u47	Here you go, Dr. Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u48	I said, insinuation, slander, this is going to happen all day. It's just gonna take patience and patience. Now if it is unclear to anyone who makes contracts on behalf of the parliamentary group, whether he has never read the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly or is playing dumb. I think in your case it's this other option. And once again, when the Group of Members entered into a contract for this pear training, it certainly did not go to see who the members of a company were, in particular, not in any relationship or conflict of interest with anyone. This was something that was completely wrong and passed and we're going back to that starting point. Because you have severe pain yourself, especially with the Anti-Corruption Commission, because you have people in the procedures of such and other accused, accused, convicted, you will deal with cases in which there are neither "s"s of suspicion nor "p" of any procedure. These are the double criteria that I've been talking about when you're having huge problems with legal procedures, criminal prognosis and so on, and you're focusing on those who don't have or have no such problem, and you're just constructing something, but look. People think with their heads, think logically, and they can make their own conclusions about it. I always count on the vast majority of people thinking with their heads and that you can't replace their thinking with your insinuations. I don't have anything else to add here.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u50	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Some documents were written in the material, which were dated to the time when he was an official, now Minister of Parliament, President of the National Assembly. This contract, which I have here before me and I also read the work number, about cooperation between the National Gazette and the Propiar Agency, is a contract, not a hint or a hint. That's a fact. There was a payment order in the back, the case was executed and so on. And I suggest, Mr. Minister, that you speak properly of this act or of this act. For example, if you knew who the members of the KPK Senate were at the time, it certainly knew which agency Propiar was, because I was also asking written questions, including public questions about the involvement of certain specific companies of KPK family members with other companies. Propiar was specifically indicated. And I don't understand why you accuse others of having major problems. I don't have any problems with the police, not with the investigations, Mr. Secretary. None at all. And what you're saying about us having problems isn't accusing us of something that hasn't yet. Maybe they will. It is very likely that if we follow these insinuations that occur when something unknown is constructed, in some unknown place and so on. Then we can have problems. But so far, we have no problem with that. And it seems to me, Madam President, that you should warn the Minister that he is talking about facts and that he is not implying or confusing anything about anything. I only asked to agree and explain the conduct, including his, since he was then a member of the parliamentary group, what about this contract signed with the Propiar and Training Agency was carried out by the partner of Mr Praprotnik, a member of the KPK Senate, who also reviewed the property situation of the Presidents of the parliamentary parties during that period, namely the KPK. I'm talking about these connections, these conflicts that have been established here. It is on the one hand family relations, contractual relations and public funds after all. And here we expect one truly correct fair answer, not the hint, the entanglement and accusation of all others who did not participate in this treaty at all. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u51	Thank you very much. He raised his hand and probably had a procedural proposal from Mr Richard Braniselj, Head of the Parliamentary Group of the National List. [[…]] You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u52	Comrade Tanko, you probably didn't listen to me when I had a position, and I said that such things were under the exclusive authority of the leader of the delegation group, so it was with the PCX contract, and so it is in the contract with Propiar. And it wasn't a matter of the Minister, it wasn't a matter of the President of the National Assembly at the time. However, if we want more in this regard, we are at our disposal or are at our disposal to those who say that anything is wrong with this treaty. We have received competitive offers and we have decided to be the best contractor with references. And who's written and who's related, you know, we never look at it because we didn't collect after that.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. Ma'am, is there something wrong? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u55	You didn't say, but the ladies thought you had a replica, but you can't have a replica because you haven't discussed it yet. You have a procedural proposal, don't you?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Look, I asked the Minister of the Interior very clearly, a lawyer, and I hope he knows what to do when a very clear question is asked. I did not ask Richard Branisl, I did not ask anyone from the parliamentary group, but I asked the minister who was then a member of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette and at the same time the President of the National Assembly. I ask because we had a lot of discussions at the time on the integrity of the officials of the National Assembly, a lot of questions, a lot of statements, tons of trucks, we could drive them around about who's suitable and who's not fit to serve as an official of the National Assembly. Even for those who had the event before the start of their term of office, statements of suitability were flying. We now have examples of ministers who happened to them in their mandate, in their current lives, and this call from the National Assembly has happened to them, and they refer to rudeness and ignorance. Gentlemen, let's be honest, let's be serious, let's be responsible. Why we beat anyone anywhere, but in this case when it comes to a completely obvious contractual relationship, clearly known, as with the airline cards, where it has now turned out again that there is still some additional backstabbing and arrangement, although it has been said that the minister said that he has never participated in it, there is now written correspondence that this has actually been completely different from what has been said. We're talking about integrity. Even electoral committees should not be related until I don't know which colleague on the electoral committee, gentlemen, if there is a candidate; for mayoral elections, for a municipal councillor, see where you have brought this integrity. In this case, the president of the National Assembly, who was former when he was a member of the parliamentary group, says he knows nothing. Look, I think that's a lot of swindling. If electoral committees have to check for each family member in the unknown knee for a related relationship, they may also be able to check here whether those who investigate and supervise the operations of our officials are in any conflict with these matters, if you have already concluded such a contract. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you to explain these things to us.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Once again, I see that he wants a word, procedurally, Mr Richard Braniselj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Re-procedure, this time in a different direction. Now that you're reading it, I don't really see it as an obvious interpolation. The proposal for interpretation is on the table with the annexes and we will talk about it today, I hope. This is a business provision which also speaks of the need to stick to the subject matter. If you had included this in the material and the evidence, someone would probably have prepared for it. That's why it's unfair that now you come every five minutes with a new contract that we can't even react to, or I don't know what you have, and I don't have all the contracts in my head and I don't have to have them. Let's follow the rules of procedure, not the item of the agenda, not the question of interpretation, so I think that the debate in this direction is completely out of line and contrary to the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko, you have a re-procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u60	Yes, of course. Look. Under point 2 of the interpolation is another contract relating to cooperation with one member of the Civil Gazette, formerly, Mr Vogrin opened it. Even when this contract was concluded and it is not possible to obtain the information pointed out by Mr Vogrin, Mr Virant was the President of the National Assembly. So is the official, the second official of the country, and then this gentleman refers to the fact that this was signed by the leader of the parliamentary group. Of course it's because it has jurisdiction. But that the President of the National Assembly knew nothing how, and a member of the parliamentary group, how and for what purposes money was allocated, it is difficult to say that he did not know. Mr Vogrin made a strong statement that the project was not to be carried out because it was impossible. We have not heard any argument in defence of these eyewitnesses of Mr Vogrin. I have no problem with this or if Mr Vogrin is in such and different procedures. I want to know if his claims hold. And that's all we're testing here. All the other things will be tried in court, in the prosecution, in the NPU, anyone else, anyway, but we're only testing from interpolation in this case those claims that are written here. Mr Minister has allowed himself to avoid such an obvious, there is no answer in the written part of the interpolation or in the oral part of the reply now here. But he's responsible for all possible and impossible things. Tell me, gentlemen, Mr. Secretary, whether you hold it or not. The President of the National Assembly, a member of the parliamentary group, would probably know about these courses or whatever it was he had to know. Probably if this was done for the Group of Members. Don't act ignorant. Was it done or not done? Simple. Do they hold Mr. Vogrin's claims or do they not believe that these things were not possible at the time? Or have you systematically excluded him from these worlds that are listed here under point 2? He suggested that this should be reviewed on cameras, recordings, and so on, whether these matters were actually in the National Assembly. There are no answers, Mr. Secretary. And you talk and you teach us about integrity. I can have problems, too. Yes, you can. I propose – because I said what the problem is and why there are no answers – that the Minister answer that. Now you can listen to anyone, but I suggest you answer this very clearly.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u62	I know that the Group of Citizens has quite limited financial resources, and I know that Richard Braniselj works very carefully and very carefully with these resources. And that what he pays out of this money, that's very worked out twice. To spend anything on money intended for professional advice and assistance to the parliamentary group inefficiently, inefficiently, inefficiently, uneconomically, I simply do not believe that money is too little. How, in particular, whose professional contracts on professional assistance, advice and so on have been concluded by the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, which is the best known by its leader and the secretary of the parliamentary group, and at any time, calmly, if you are interested, you will come to see, even though I do not know why you would be interested, because Branisel does not go to your group to ask who you are paying for your professional advice. This is a matter of the Group of the Civil Code, leave them this right. But all else to discuss with you, Mr Tanko, I can only use one word, hopelessly. It's hopeless.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Kurnjek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! I had listened to Mr Tonin before, and I had a feeling that he had gone by in time to discover the time machine and he was talking about the contents of the previous interpretation against the minister. The former Chairman left him a full word and, in fact, it turned out right because Mr Tonin obviously did not find the content in today's interpretation, which he could even discuss. Otherwise, when I read interpolation again this night or very early in the morning, and actually was preparing what to say about it, I found myself somewhere in some strange imaginary world, in some fairytale world, and I wrote down some ideas that I would like to read now, if you'll allow that to sound a little fairy tale. By the way, look, my dear is writing fairy tales. For someone to write a good story, he probably has to be a little gifted. And if you want people to read or listen to your fairy tale, the fairy tale must have good content, and above all it must contain clear messages. And my dear people's fairy tales like to read and listen. The author of today's interpolation, which I don't see here, obviously also wanted to write a fairy tale. The problem is that apparently not the most talented one, since the fairy tale does not have any specific content, and the biggest problem is that it does not carry any message. And his fairy tales will not be read and listened willingly because they would like to, but will be read only by those who have or have been forced to do so. In the event of an interpolation, I will only mention a few sentences accusing Minister Virant of working to the detriment of the state and trying to remove him from the post of Minister with fairy tales. So, I'm going to quote a few sentences from the interpolation. I quote, "that by continuing to advocate double criteria for staff and other suspensions, it gives the public the impression that it is not working properly in its work." Is this why the minister should step down because he gives the public the impression that he is acting unintentionally? Well, not because it works unintentionally, but because it gives the impression that it works unintentionally. Next, from interpolation. "His political decisions make him feel reckless every time." Every time they get the feeling that they're acting recklessly. So Minister Virant can no longer be Minister, because his political decisions always arouse the feeling that he is acting recklessly, not because he is acting recklessly, but because he makes such a feeling that he is acting recklessly. Next, the quote, "we deserve a minister who will be aware of the importance and power and honour of his function and who will know and be able to put the benefits of the country ahead of his own interests and will use the same criteria for all, without political or any discrimination in such an important function". But, dear writers of this fairy tale, since you have it there, Minister Virant, the one you want. It is true that the role of a tragic hero is played in fairy tales, but nothing about it, tragic heroes are particularly important. And at the end of the flower flower in the interpolation, please listen carefully. "The politician and the minister who writes and distributes publicly about how lies and dishonesty poison people's relationships and how honesty is the foundation of friendly relations, the basis of love and the basis for a secure sense of people to be led by credible people, and by his own actions he puts ahead of his own political ambitions or, rightly said, his political survival, no doubt poses a threat to national security." Minister Virant, if you are not with us now, I really ask you to take a deep look at yourself and if you find that you are really a threat to national security, at least you can step down if any other person who should have done so has been able to do so a long time ago. Yes, indeed, Dr. Virant found himself in this fairy tale as a tragic hero constantly being attacked by dark evil forces. By the end of the story, he will have to endure blows and suffering. But we know who and what is always missing at the end of fairy tales yes, Jesus, yes, Mr Grims, a famous fairy tale teller – good and fair. [[…]] That is why I call on Minister Virant, in his moral support, to persist in this fairy tale, because the end will be as it must be, just and in good and fair. So there'll be no doubt in my mind that I want to defuse the interpolation institute. I am more than just respecting the Slovenian Constitution, which also introduces an instrument of interpretation. I also understand why and for what purpose the interpretation of the Constitution is recorded. Unfortunately, I can't help feeling that this institute has been abused by its proponents. Otherwise, if we step out of the fairy tale for a moment and return to the real life, as we have heard, Minister Virant in his opening speech expressed his vision that the last media and general public prosecution against him had done him both a personal and a political and career harm. When this was discussed a few days ago, I expressed my opinion, in fact the belief that it would most likely not only have short-term, but also long-term consequences, unfortunately. I still believe him myself, and so far no strong argument has convinced me otherwise. And you can believe that I'm not a follower of any character named Gregor Virant or anyone else. I've never been, I haven't, and I won't. And if, at any time in the future, Gregor Virant was charged with a legal case, i.e. by what the Parliamentary Group of the National List in Mr. Muscolo predicted as a boundary for the resignation of the official, and of course, that such a legal charge would come from the state authority and not from any media or the public, I can state publicly that I will be the first to give Gregor Virant my hand in permanent favor. And Gregor Virant knows that very well. For the time being, however, he can at any time give his hands completely free of reservations and bad conscience from any side. In fact, Gregor Virant's story will one day be judged by history. I am confident that we will or will be reminded of his hard and good work and personal denial for the benefit of citizens and citizens. I am also sure that in the future possible doubters will also have to admit, yes, because he was one of the few in such a high position that he wanted to restore order to the country and deal with the privileged with the criminal burden. And that they will also have to admit in the future that Gregor Virant was the biggest thorn in the corruption heel until then and that he or she may still have to pay a high price for his stand. And in the end, bizarre bizarre. I myself act here as a representative of the people, Member, in my life I have never stepped against the law if I count the fact that I was once punished for misparking, once for a little overspeed and once for driving on the wrong side of the bike track. On the other hand, we have a magician there. Ivan Vogrina, who had to be denied immunity nine times in this mandate alone, in order to be able to initiate or continue proceedings before the court. And this is also a man who, of course, represents citizens and citizens, to whom he is in fact indebted, and this is what our fellow Member Braniselj has already said in his opening statement. Since Mr Vogrin is not here, I would still like to tell him that I believe that today honest people still live, but for him and the other 9 proposers, co-signers, it is probably just a fairy tale. And I apologize for reading my words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u65	Mr. Mag. Branko Grims, you can't have a replica because you haven't discussed it in person. You had a presentation of the Group's position. I know you've been mentioned, I can say that. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u66	Madam President, I merely suggest that you give a reminder to the representative of the Civil Code just now because he has insulted his colleagues. Otherwise, if he is talking about fairy tales, I suggest that you ask him if the media has published documents that Mr Virant has withdrawn 66 thousand, a little more, Euros of compensation for an official who can't get any other income, and at the same time, he has earned more than 95 000 euros in private over the same period, and documents on this have been published in the newspapers – what's on this fairy tale. Another time. If you can ask him - if Mr Virant publicly denied that he had anything to do with buying cards under more favourable conditions, then it turns out that he personally regulated the purchase of tickets that are accessible only to the families of those employed on Adria Airways and paid 150 instead of 600 euros and were published in newspapers - what is on this story. And thirdly, if it has now been documented here, in the National Assembly, that KPK has reviewed the financial situation and purchase of exactly these cards by the president of the political party, his political party, in the same mandate, the wife of the senior KPK official has provided services to the same party's parliamentary group, earning a lot of money, perhaps something wrong – whether there is anything fairytale about it. It is only fair that we can now rename the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption with the same shorthand as the KPC as the Commission for the Practice of Corruption. On the other hand, it's pretty likely that someone "basked" all this money in their own pocket and really lives like in a fairy tale. But what's not fairytale is that we pay taxpayers. All together. Those taxpayers that you have raised in this coalition at this time up to EUR 28.8 billion minus, so the debt. And if there's anything fairy-tale about it, it's just that fairy tale when you came to power, it's like in a fairy tale, But she didn't win. The Butlers won.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u67	Please proceed with procedure, Mr. Branko Kurnjek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u68	Thank you, Madam Vice President! I'm with the honourable Member of Mags. I apologize to Grimes. My break-up earlier was due to him jumping into my word, and that was very loud. I'm sorry, but I've read the word that I said on a number of media outlets, forums and so on, where also your client employees write a lot about me, and no one ever apologizes to me, and none of this is true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Thank you also for your correctness, Mr Kurnjek. We continue the debate. Mr. Franz Breznik is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Nice greeting from me, too! I thank my colleague Brannet Grimes for bringing us back from the world of fairy tales to a cruel reality, for bringing us back to this cruel reality in which we must act for the good of the people, and for bringing us back to today's debate, therefore today's debate against the Interior Minister. And I was very pleased to hear the arguments for and against, I was creating, even as a Member, some impression of the power of the argument, the power of the counter-argument, this is that barbecue of parliamentaryism, which is known by serious parliamentary democracy. Look, I'd start my debate like this. Firstly, the role of the Interior Minister or the Ministry of the Interior is not this Ministry has a special status. [[…]] Firstly, we must be aware that this is a state-of-the-art ministry, both for foreign affairs and for finance and so on. On the other hand, the complexity of this ministry is so much greater because it is a repressive ministry, it is a repressive body which has certain powers under law and where, in accordance with legal provisions, it can also seriously violate, within its borders, human rights, human rights, human rights and fundamental freedoms. So according to the law. Thus, the repressive body, whose part of the members carry weapons, carries special locks, tears, so on, penetrates people's mail, influences processes, influences investigations, launches investigations, and, of course, also with the work of the State Prosecutor's Office. And today we are talking about the integrity of someone who is acting as the minister of this ministry. It is not the Minister for Slovenians around the world, it is not the Minister for Economic Affairs, it is the Minister for Home Affairs. And look, the Minister of the Interior is particularly influenced by the fact that he proves his integrity, his integrity, his principle, because there are many people around them who are then being fucked up, just as they are today. And so today this debate has gone on quite a few things. For the first time, the minister spoke about why we are not dealing with the problems of today in everyday life and so on for more than 9 hours. Look, my opinion is as follows, I'm here to deal with these problems, to repeat them many times, to repeat the solutions to these problems. I must admit, I sometimes agree with at least the work of ministers, especially with the current new Minister of Economy, and I hope that someone will also get their chance. What is important for today's debate is one thing I would like to mention. So look, as far as the future is concerned, 95 of these Slovenian craftsmen and entrepreneurs, how to solve economic problems, how to solve the problems of this country, how to improve competitiveness, and how to deal with it as a minister. Why am I talking about 95 thesis? One day, in 1517, almost 500 years from this, Martin Luther, will also talk about 95 thesis. He was talking about corruption in the Catholic Church, saying that the Catholic Church was losing common sense, even writing in the Mainz archbishop that it disagreed. In fact, it's also a tricky story because we're talking about fairy tales that he put this thesis on the church in Wittenberg, it wasn't true. This was rejected, so there was a protest letter in which he sent to the archbishop Albert in Mainz his 95 theses. He spoke, especially criticism of so-called layoffs. My friend Grimes started the subject of forgiveness today. He spoke in particular about someone who, after his role as minister at the time, benefited from the so-called functionary allowance that we as officials have for this of course a legal basis, but of course this institution of this compensation is primarily related to the fact that Members or public officials can really operate with this ethics, with this integrity, that we are also not materially connected to, after some mandate, to certain matters, and that you have at least a few months after the mandate, another possibility of material care. [[…]] And then it goes very differently each way. I don't have a job waiting for me, like a lot of people here. Some, as we have seen today, are waiting for a good, solid place back in public administration after this function. What is important about these discharges is that the Minister, the former Minister, when he took advantage of it, in the period after 2008, at the end of 2008, has, of course, advised as a former Minister, a specialist in public administration, to modernise public administration, including many countries. And, as my colleague Grimes said, he made, I think, 95 thousand euros of extra money at the time. So, he benefited from that functional allowance or the functional compensation after the performance of the function, and in the second moment he earned 95 000 euros as a doctor of law, as a consultant, as an expert in the modernisation of public administration. At the same time, in this very period of 2009, 2010, this man used extremely favourable flights of Adria, i.e. some maps that are not on any public portal that no man can reach them in some normal way, but are typical of some connections that he could have used as a former minister. Because, as the former Minister of Public Administration, he, of course, concluded contracts or at least he was with us when we chaired the European Union and so on, when the whole series of flights of Adria was also for our officials. Why I am also talking about this, and even at the beginning of this, more than a year ago, I convened a press conference, is very simple, respected. It's simple because I explained at the time. Look, I participated in my own study of the 2006 Corsica Air Crash, 2007, 2008, and I also had contact with Mr Kostaniski, who was once mentioned with his assistant, Mr Tomaž Škofić, and we sat several times at a meeting. See why I, like Franz Beznik, didn't use these connections. Why aren't Franca Breznik's emails on Adrio that after everything we've done, that I'm flying to some destinations and that I need some nice, better cards? It's about those principles in a person's life, it's about simple principles, you get to know people in the smallest situations. This is about those principles. From this also grows the integrity of one person, his personality. And see if we're assessing Mr Virant's personality today. See, the first case of actual accusations, which is normal for one interpretation, is evidence against the assumption that the parliamentary group should somehow try to draw money from the National Assembly through some of the pir advisory contracts. Look, here you see the personality. My colleague, Minister of the Interior, who is being accused, somehow immediately puts the burden on the leader of the parliamentary group, does not take any responsibility for himself. Is this a leader, or is this a personality, or is this a serious policy of the future? Can this man bring out the crowds? Does he protect his subordinates or his associates? No, he'll never protect you. Right now, to a respected colleague that I appreciate, I think he's an honest man, like a lot of you in here, and I don't agree with anyone, and I'm never going to accuse anyone. And look, colleague Braniselj today literally has two professions to perform, and the head of the House plus his legal profession must have somehow aroused, because somehow with his legal skills he is solving today in the interpretation of the Interior Minister. With all due respect, I think he's doing his job well, he's been very good at it, and there's some arguments, and the minister, who's in the middle of interpolation, is nothing. But Minister Gregor's nothing. Like Fran Levstik said. The second issue, when I spoke about Slovenian craft and entrepreneurship, is also a very good explanation for Minister Virant today. For me, it means removing bureaucratic barriers in the public sector, for example, that someone who works with craftsmanship does not need any qualifications. And here is the core of our entire economy, learning the principles of our lives. So, the craftsman doesn't need any knowledge, that's what he wanted to say, everyone who's a pastry maker doesn't need any school, no permits, so we're talking about professional qualifications in particular. Somehow he's putting all these groups to nothing. So why does Mr Gregor Virant set certain conditions when we are talking about public administration? But why does someone need to be a leader, already a master's degree in public administration today? And that's why he has a pay grade, I think, over 40. Then why do we need this? Why it applies to the economic work, this is not the case, so everyone can carry out any profession and all of this applies in the public administration. It doesn't hold, it doesn't drink water. Don't hold it. And I have to admit, those few years I've spent in addition to the economy in public administration, we have a whole range of people with university education who do the work every day that someone could do with a normal three-year school. Look, this is a public administration problem. The problem is, some cities are so highly valued and so little expertise is done there that you can't believe it. On the other hand, we have top heart surgeons with 20 years of knowledge, who often have the same or even lower salary for classical bureaucrats. And it's just these bureaucrats, look, when there's some opinions, say, falling before the Constitutional Court, so many doctors of science sitting down and masters, graduated lawyers, and nothing happened here either. Fiasco. Total fiasco in this line of work. Then Minister Virant says, "Interpellation must strive to do this, not look back, not look back, look forward, at this work." Very interesting thesis. So today, in the debate, all the fellow Members who have to sit in the back rows somehow had some problems in the past, along with respectable colleague Trudo Cinderella, who was a really good friend, I must admit, and I am very sorry about what happened, so even she has left these types of Members. So all that happened to him, that is, lying to the public about airline tickets, that's also interesting, because after the first interpretation, there was pure evidence, clear evidence of a lie to the public. And now, look, at the end of this debate, look at what's happening in some real world from where there's supposed to be some liberal idea that as a representative of some liberal party talking about. Look at Germany, for example, Christian Wulf is literally, and two years ago, one month ago, after he resigned, he said that he couldn't bear that burden. And in the end, there was an accusation that he was supposed to own, or so around 700 euros, when he was, I think, in his post in Lower Saxony a few years ago, he should have been invited to Octoberfest and someone paid for it, 700 euros. For 700 euros, the German president fell. Look at these cards from Adria, 100 euros is one card, for 100 euros someone flew in a business class, on the most frequent line. The map of the Member of the National Assembly, who sits last in the economic class when you are going to Vilnius, Brussels or going to Frankfurt is EUR 600. 600 euros, the business class card is at least 1,000 euros and more. So 100 euros a map. Mails fly Kostajšek-Virant, you'll make-me-up, and everything else look, it's out of reach. [[…]] And now we're comparing Christian Wolff to 700 Euros, which, as German President, resigns, and Mr Gregor Virant. Look, it doesn't drink water, there's no argument against it. And one more thing, people forget. Adria is a state-owned enterprise; the country has a majority stake; in 2011 we gave an additional EUR 50 million of tax money to this company. So 50 million people over taxes put in this company so that one part of the privileged can drive in the first grade, have more free leg, get better food and everything else, but people who work for 400, 500 euros, especially those tradesmen that I initially talked about that the government didn't hear about, they pay it all over taxes. These are your vats, that's the difference between us. Some are subject to extremely strict rules and some are not subject to purely nothing. When it's my turn, it's nothing. This is something like if I were to explain how to drive honours, but I am a multiple infringement of road traffic regulations myself. I gotta be quiet, I gotta be critical, I gotta say, look, I was driving fast, I'm gonna pay the penalty. Everyone's got, like a colleague said today, not a hundred percent. [[…]] Yeah, but where does that percentage go? And you know, abroad is the worst offense that only Gregor Virant has right now, taking advantage of public goods, taking advantage of public money. This is the difference that has not been missed by colleague Simčič, not colleague Vogrin and everyone else. Nothing, nobody. Comrade Simčič himself had to pay his tuition, I think another colleague, colleague Vogrin was a successful entrepreneur for many years, unfortunately his results, he made some bad business decisions and unfortunately the company failed. And I'm sorry for the many entrepreneurs who are failing. But just in this Germany I was talking about is the best stories, the best stories come from former failed entrepreneurs, you won't believe. When I was sitting at one lunch, we tested some wine on Kapfenberg at one restaurant a thousand meters away, Pogue is called, and he was sitting next to Didi Mateschitz, owner of Red Bull. He's failed four times, definitively. So he collapsed, he borrowed money so he could come. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u71	If we were to focus on the interpolation, we're getting a little bit wider now.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u72	So it went down, look, and it got a new opportunity, and today it's the second biggest brand. In Austria is the richest family, the second is Didi Mateschitz. What does it matter? What's important is that if you talk to your constituents about liberalism, what's left of this party about liberalism? So those principles that Gregor Virant also sold to his constituents, Slovenian citizens. What kind of liberalism is that? High taxes? What kind of liberalism creates monopolies? What liberalism is that, at a time when we have put 5 billion in Slovenian banks, you are looking at the interior minister next to the government, where a bad bank, together with two banks which are state-owned, give two gentlemen who owe 208 million euros, Mr Rigelnik, Mr Petan, 208 million euros, will receive a moratorium on a loan with a one-percent interest rate, at the same time that the six-percent state was in debt. Tell me what the difference is. Were these entrepreneurs when they wrote all this or did they have that opportunity? Do those who have problems have one percent moratoriums today with a one percent interest rate? And look what liberalism it is. Is that liberalism? I am the only one who sees this liberalism today, see, is the only liberal view of smoking grass you've represented here. It's the only liberal view we have. However, I must commend perhaps the last liberal view that you no longer allow taxes to rise, especially VAT. Of course, that's insane. If you look at last year's results, we sold, we collected 5% less taxes and excise duties. It all points to one person. I'm a liberalist, I'm honest, I've never done anything, and every little step you take, you see, a man took advantage of a little action. And the worst and the most corrupt are the people who take advantage of the smallest money. I am not saying this now for Mr Virant, which I am only speaking of, I am speaking now in general that this would not be an insult to him. But look, here's where it shows one whole personality, all of it shows one big whole personality. I believe today this interpolation may not work. But as the proposalr said today, it points to some of the values we represent Members. In the end, the matter began with the years and today you will be the one with respect to your colleagues and colleagues who will decide whether this flight will be completed or whether Minister Virant will finally fly from where he arrived, whether he will fly again with cheap tickets, or whether this card will be more expensive. This card, either because Mr Virant flew in or that he actually destroyed the previous one with the other Janša government, appears. It appears in the new 10, 15 billion debt, that's the responsibility. So we go with some solution, right-hand solutions, we go into a totally extreme left-hand solution. And these are all the things that someone will have to take on the so-called political responsibility for their actions in life. And I should say how he represented liberal values, how he represented his extreme honesty he spoke about today. And I believe that in this performance I have somehow gone a bit wider, I have a broader view of how a normal Europe works, how this integration part of politics works, what does it mean to fly the President of Germany and what it means to the Minister of Home Affairs, and what is the essence of today, to which we have not received an answer at all today. So, in the end, look, I can only ask one rhetorical question. Mr Tanko, the Head of the Parliament, has actually presented to Mr Virant today a document, a document on an alleged, fictitious contract, talked about family ties, talked about standards that are in force, and see, in the end, why Gregor Virant came first in front of the cameras a year ago and said he was leaving the government. How did he find out about this to the President who was in front of both the presidents? That's what I'm asking. And I believe he hears it, I believe he hears it, and he will answer it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Since there have been some changes in the registration of the debaters, or some changes in the order of debate, I would now like to read the following Members and Members, who will then be in the debate: Mrs Alenka Jeraj, Dr Ljubica Jelusic, Mrs Eva Irgl, mag. Ivan Vogrin and Mrs Ludmila Novak. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues, secretary, secretary! I would first ask from this town if, in due course, in about five minutes, Mr Minister, Mr Gregor Virant would also come to the Chamber, because we could read a lot of things through the media, concrete emails to be held, and of which the anti-corruption commission has also said that it did not have them, so of course it was unable to study them, so to present them, and I have them, and I would like, of course, to specifically reply to these e-mails, whether the truth is what these emails say or are fakes. So this is about documents that the KPK has not received, and I would therefore ask that Mr Minister, I hope he hears me, come to the Chamber in due time. Of course, I expected him to be here, so I will have to change my performance a little bit, because I want to be corrected to him, so that he will respond directly and specifically, without commenting on the things that are written here. So, not according to the media records, but by the e-mails that were going on between him and the ones that were editing his cards.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u75	Dear Mr Franz Puksic, I suggest, according to your proposal – you can stop his time if you just turn off for a minute – I suggest, Mr Franz Puksic, that you raise the questions you have. By the way, if I look at the clock, it's 3:30 p.m. and since I've been holding the session, Minister Gregor Virant here in the hall and he's also given a few answers and discussions, it's also my decision that he has a chance from this moment on to give him at least that much time, and he as a human being has the right to have some time, that he may not be present at the hall all the time, can also drink coffee or maybe even anything. So, I don't think you'd mind if he wasn't here physically in the gym for a while. But I'm sure he'll decide and then he'll answer. Here you go. But I apologize for having already responded to your proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u76	It's no big deal, Vice President, because you didn't pick up my time, so it was more right. Of course, I want to present the documents that I have in my hand before him and him, so that he can answer them, for the very reason that you spoke about it, it's either on coffee, lunch or whatever it is, and he has absolutely the right to do so, he can't follow what I'm about to say. Of course, he would not be able to respond directly, so I said that I would start my work differently. I expect him to come to the hall in due course. So much for a start. Today, at the beginning of what is normal, the Prime Minister defended the Minister and said: "Interpellations make sense if they are very well reasoned and only then can we expect a different decision than expected. Because the Secretary's Coalition is expected to defend." Well, and from this title, of course, and also to what the President of the Government has said, I will answer precisely with these specific questions, with documents that have not yet been presented in the National Assembly or somewhere, except on the basis of, of course, probably, even such documents, certain articles have been made. But I'm not gonna talk about articles. Well, then the President of the Government said, "If only other politicians could determine the border to which they would go, and that they could also decide to leave at some border." Here I agree with her, perhaps even in her mind the recording from Saturday's Work, March 29th, when other packages of complaints against Zoran Jankovic were made against the suspected abuse of position and money laundering from Elektroenergy, the owner of which was Municipality of Ljubljana, transferred over Grep to Dante and KLM, which his company carried into its own pocket hundreds of thousands of euros. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u77	Interpellation now concerns Minister Gregor Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u78	and not Zoran Jankovic. [[…]] Interpellation will never apply to Zoran Jankovic, because never in this country, I believe, will take up such a function that he can be interpelled. But of course I somehow understood in the performance by the President of the Government and I am talking about it of course. Well, now I'm going to touch on some of the things that Mr Minister himself said in his defense when he was talking about insinuations, insults, then personal discredit and so on. And my, today in this interpretation, the only question will be whether or not you have lied to the Slovenian public, Mr Minister. That is, of course, what I want, based on the documents I have, is also his clear and loud answer. If, of course, it turns out that Mr Slovenian Minister lied to the public, then, of course, his integrity as a minister is affected and, therefore, there are probably enough elements for coalition partners to see that, after today's interpretation, which is, of course, sufficiently substantiated, there are no arguments to support it and of course to withdraw. Regardless of what this means for the coalition, it does not matter, it is important what it means for citizens and citizens. And I will not talk about the economic downturns and successes that the Prime Minister has been talking about. It is true that she and the coalition are the only ones who see success, entrepreneurs, craftsmen, farmers, farmers, workers, the unemployed, and so on, but also Europe does not see success. We just got a warning, but I'm not going to talk about it. It's not today. Of course, it would be right or even through the questions sent, in fact, we have already asked many times to discuss this. When the minister talked about insinuations, insults, personal discredits, and so on, when he said it would be better to find solutions for people today because we were paid out of taxpayers' pockets. That is true, we have talked about this many times in the Slovenian People's Party. Our debates in legislation and in support of legislation are always going in this direction, what we can do for people. Of course, he forgot to say that he was also paid from the pockets of taxpayers, including the minister, the entire ministerial team, and that it is their responsibility and also their best chance to do something good for people. Of course, not as they imagined. When they raise taxes, they raise their debts. And in the situation we've been in before the year and something else, the next 20, 30 years, we're not going to have to pay for this whole drink and make the conditions for the economy to create it and it's going to come back. Among other things, the Minister said he was not interested in any premonition proceedings against Minister Omerzel. And he wondered if they were running or what procedures they didn't know how to count, because I think they count in the National Assembly from 10 to 20, which is in, I think, the first grade of elementary school, around of course the procedures he talked about about Ivan Vogrin. When the Minister spoke about the chiefs of administrative units, I will not repeat it here, I presented this in the latest interpretation concerning the Chief of Administrative Unit Željko Vogrinin of Maribor, when this same Minister, Dr Gregor Virant, in writing, awarded him as the best among the chiefs of administrative units, as the Chief, who is also an example to others, and as the Chief, who has contributed greatly to good work and systematic changes throughout the country right in administrative units. Today he described him as one of the locusts he had to replace because of connections, hunters and so on. I ask the Minister publicly here, which hunter he discovered during this time, which one he cut. What did Željko Vogrin, head of the Maribor administration unit, do you think he did wrong before and whether any criminal charges have been filed against him? But we do know that some things happen even if someone just says something and suggests something, they can get it on their backs very quickly. Against the end, the minister also spoke in his defense that so-called wrong is the world, that there is nothing illegal and that the world has gone so far, so wrong that the rain has rained so long, he said, after the quote, that "the dusters have become clean and the people are muddy". I wonder which side the ministers are on. Or the pigs' side or the people's side? What's going on with us, of course, is going on. Since it is about the purchase of cards, it is no longer important today, as far as the price and everything else is concerned, but of course it is important that the minister, now that the Slovenian public, has responded truthfully to the public's observations about flying with Adrio, whether he has lied to the Slovenian public. Of course, the Minister must answer that question today. A year ago, on 26 April 2013, the work reported that the minister had warned that he might have flown with Adria a hundred times at the time, especially in the Balkans. In the summer, so before he flew, he asked for a price before summer, and if he was comfortable, he bought a ticket, otherwise he went with the car. "I neither demanded nor expected privileges," said Virant, adding that he only received discounts which were normal. Mr. Virant, is it true that you didn't expect and demand any discounts? If you didn't ask for them, I might even believe that you didn't expect them, but not because if you didn't expect them, you write an email or ask about Adrio, or you look at the Internet, but if you do, of course you're writing to someone who can. Then you don't write a letter to a bakery or a candy store, you write a letter to a commercial director or a company director. Of course, that was happening. That it was not, therefore, that his statement was denied and that there was no connection and no intention that someone had no interest in Mr Virant to arrange a cheap map, of course, it did not. Mr Tomaž Kostajšek was a commercial director at Adria, and his assistant was Tomaž Škofic, both together, Mr Kostajšek and Mr Tomaž Škofič, together with Mitja Braz, had one company, Arena d.o.o., which operated with, say, an ice room in Kranj. So, Kostanišek and Tomaž were the commercial director and his assistant, along with Mitja, i.e. Adria Airways, along with Mitja Braz, Mitja Braz had a wife, a wife, Mojco, who, along with her husband, had the Mi Project in co-ownership. And this Mi Project was doing surveillance work in Adria. So, the minister was a member of the government, the owner of Adria, and you, Mojca, who was a friend of Mr Virant's wife, had an interest in getting cheap tickets, and so through her husband, who co-ownered another company with a commercial director and his deputy in Adria, clearly had enough links and connections to personally know and manage each other at the expense of taxpayers for their personal benefit. It's also called corruption and customerism. I wonder if there are any police investigations in this area, as Minister Virant says there are no sacred cows and that they will touch all of them, including those in which he is involved. This is a second question to Minister Virant. 26. 4, so last year, Minister Virant said, "I don't know, I don't know, I don't know what key I got on the list" is the surprise of Gregor Virant. "I never demanded, nor expected, any benefits," says Virant. That was in the Primorsky News. And on May 9, 2013, last year: "The Virant travelled with tickets intended for staff members of Adria." By the way, it must be said that, of course, the tickets he received at extremely low prices were awarded for the business class. So this is the more expensive, the highest class. And then, in May, we also sent a question to the President of the Government, asking her if she asked the Minister for an explanation in writing. The President of the Government replied that she did not request a written explanation, and also, as far as I know or as far as we know, no one has said that this is what it is. And then, of course, the circulation of these maps continued and it was written: "There have been years for 150 Euros of constant practice. Virant's defense against the apparent fact that Adrio Airways was flying more cost-effective than normal passengers has so far been based on two points. For the first time, between 2009 and 2011, he and Adria flew around a hundred times and never demanded or expected any privileges or privileges. And secondly, he didn't get any tickets for free." This is probably true that no one got free, but of course he did not expect any benefits, and of course his defense fell. She also fell, of course, by revealing these links between Mr Kostaniski, his assistant and both Mojca and Mitja Braz. Then the story continued last May: "Virant traveled in tickets to the staff", and I talked about this earlier. Now, if according to the information the ticket to Frankfurt in this business class is marked by [[Incomprehensible]] 800 euros, he paid, or his family and his immediate members, seven plus one minor, and I'm not going to talk about him, but for those seven members of 150 euros, that's a thousand 50 euros instead of 800 euros, which is 5,000 600 euros. About these 5,000 600 euros, if you count down the thousand 50 they gave for the flights, they obviously went on vacation, there's 4 thousand 550 left, if you divide it into eight days while they were in Frankfurt, and seven people, then you get 81.25 euros per person per day. Which means you have enough for a half-pension of one hotel, if not for more. And the story went on to say that more than 260 of those who received these tickets were on such a list. The question is, is this the third question: Has any criminal investigation been initiated, who have all been on this list? And for all those on this list, and therefore public servants, in public services in one way or another, an investigation and application to the anti-corruption commission should also be initiated. On March 25th, when we had an interpellation against Minister Gregor Virant, he replied in his statement about the air tickets: "I have also explained on several occasions that I have never requested or expected any special benefits and that I have neither tried or wished to have any influence on the pricing of airline tickets." I had no influence or intention to influence the pricing of airline tickets. Minister, is that true or not? Did you also lie to the Slovenian public and Members in the National Assembly this time, or were you telling the truth? Did you tell the truth? Obviously not, because the KPK also wrote the following. Mr. Minister Virant said, I assure you that I have presented the KPK with all the facts of the matter. And the KPK said it didn't hold. KPK itself confirmed that it did not have the content of electronic messages showing that Gregor Virant was directly involved in the purchase of airline tickets with then commercial director Adria. On Wednesday at the KPK, we were confirmed to have launched further inquiries into the matter. If they do not have these e-mails at the KPK, which took place between the commercial director and Mr Virant, in order to continue their investigation, then they can come to me and get these e-mails from me. I'm afraid it's been 22 minutes since my debate started. Mr Minister has not yet returned to the Chamber and, of course, it will be very ungrateful that I will have to move on to this most important documentation with which the KPC does not have it, and the Minister will not respond directly to this. Apparently, I'm gonna have to pick up some more maneuvers to make these things go the way they're supposed to. However, for Members and Members of the coalition, as the President of the Government has said, do you therefore have sufficient arguments for interpretation? If you do, then the vote will be different than expected. And since, of course, I have no other option than to continue, I have no business opportunity to interrupt and continue when the Minister is here, I'm afraid I'm going to have to start with that. The first email I have in my hand is addressed to Tomaž. Of course, I mentioned that if you want a privilege or something like that, then you can turn to those who can arrange it for you. If you don't have that purpose, you just go online and look at what you can see on the Internet, and of course you produce things the way you think it's right. So obviously it is not true, as the Minister said today that he did not know Mr Praprotnik's wife or friend, he does not know, so it is not true that he did not know Mr Tomaž Kostajnšk, commercial director. If I didn't know him, I wouldn't have written him Tomaž's e-mail. Below is eight candidates for Ljubljana–Frankfurt–Ljubljana, with passport numbers. Someone will be ten years old. So this is it. Thank you and a nice greeting, but it's not Gregor Virant or Dr. Gregor Virant, it's Greg. That means you can only send an e-mail to a personal friend, a longtime acquaintance, a family friend, or something like that. This happened on 8 July 2010. Then Tomaž Kostajšek writes, returns an email on 14 July 2010, saying: "Greg, you have made a reservation." Okay, well, here comes the key part. "The price as agreed, 150 euros, all inclusive for adults and 100 euros all inclusive for..., so the price as agreed. At the interview, Mr Minister said, "I will read again, even for the past use of the services of this company, I have explained many times that I have never requested or expected any special benefits." Tomaž Kostajšek, commercial director, sends him an e-mail, "price as agreed". Not just in writing, but obviously in the oral, on the phone, at any business lunch, family, or whatever you guys were talking about. So, "price as agreed". Mr. Minister, were you telling the truth, were you lying to the Slovenian public when you answered the interpellation last November? That's the question. On this e-mail. Were you lying, or were you telling the truth? Of course, the KPK will be able to understand what the truth is and what lies are based on these e-mails. And then, of course, since this was already July, it was very quick to storm, then the months run, July, August, September 10th, wrote Mr Virant the following email: "Dear Tomaž, I would like to ask you for a return map of Ljubljana–Skopje–Ljubljana." Dear Tomaž, I'd like to ask you for a return ticket. "Going on Monday, 20. 9th, return on Friday, 24. 9. I'd like to buy some tickets for Frankfurt from October 22nd to October 1. November. I hope you're okay, nice greeting, and I'll call you back." I'll call you back. So, my dears, what more than a piece of paper evidence for someone who spoke of morality, for someone who knew at every moment to say a lot of things, for someone who stood up for morals in this country. I expect Mr. Gregor Virant to come in now to end this story that's going on in front of a pay phone and he's going to say, "I admit, I've sinned, I've lied, I've been talking, I've been on the phone, I've been e-mailing, my wife hasn't done all this." Or is that his wife? Does he think of himself as Gregor Virant's wife here today? Was he doing this on behalf of Gregor Virant's wife? And he'll back off. At least a little morale. These people, these citizens and citizens deserve it. Enough debt, enough humiliation, enough disgrace. People don't have bread, people don't have bread, people don't have jobs, people have up to 80 percent of GDP. This country is going into disaster, and in disaster with the lies that have been told, concrete and different facts are written. I expect the Minister to respond to this today, now as soon as possible. He's been gone more than half an hour in the hall, even though I called him. This is also his attitude towards the Slovenian public. He's not honest, he's not correct. He was right when he said pigs were clean, and I said someone else.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs. Alenka Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. At the beginning of her speech, the PM said that the opposition was political and looked into the past. The lady should first place herself before her threshold, because so much attention to the past as she does, "it is all the fault of Janša's government," whatever happens, whatever stupidity she does, even though the Constitutional Court annuls her, wants to blame someone from the past, that is to say, the government of Janez Janša. So the one who looks into the past is the Prime Minister first. We have repeatedly tabled interpellations, if not with a few signatures of our Members, and they have largely proved to be justified, if not when they were on the agenda, but after a while. So for Mrs Kresalova, who then had to resign because of the NPU, she survived even two interpretations, but later it turned out that we were right. Similarly to Mr Lukšić, the allocation of money for the Stožice was also interpeeled, the Ljubljana Municipality had to pay back two million. Minister Pikalo survived the interpellation here on Monday, but yesterday we were able to watch on POP TV new documents that not only place him in a very bad light but also the Dean of the Faculty of Social Sciences. So time will show that this interpolation has been justified, as I am sure today, if Minister Virant survives it or does not fly away, as we might say. In the beginning, Minister Virant, instead of responding to the impressions he had read in the interpretation, explained to him what the interpretation was, taught us what the defense was, what the answer was, what the answer was, explained to us about the deleted, that was, by the way, in the previous interpretation against him. In short, he taught us everything he could, but he did not answer what was evident to him and what we wanted to point out. Mrs Potrata also said that interpolation has no value, you know, interpellation is not for the benefit, but to draw attention to mistakes and problems and to avoid any further abuses and errors and so on. [[…]] Now to the obvious, colleagues have already mentioned the actions of Minister Gregor Virant in cases of appointment of chiefs of administrative units. Mr Vogrin mentioned several cases, we all know the case of Mojce Kucler Dolinar, the only candidate within the time limit for Head of the Ljubljana Administrative Unit. The only argument the Minister had when he did not appoint her or for him was that he was a member of New Slovenia, which was appointed under the government of Janez Janša. His excuse was that tenders were being made in reserve. This statement should, of course, address his colleague, Mr Plitsanič, who has published these invitations and has never done so, never warned him about it, nor asked him to explain why he had so early called for the posts of chiefs. By the way, he called them in accordance with the law which Mr Virant had requested during another period. Similarly, in the case of the Chiefs of the Management Unit of Grosuplje – Dr Boža Podalič. There, too, not a single indication of a specific infringement in the appointment process, nothing, through the competition commission and through all the professional references, so through the competition commission came with a positive response – like Mojca Kucler Dolinar – to meet and meet all the conditions. However, this is not enough for the minister, because he is recruiting differently, we can say politically, as it turned out in the appointment of the Chiefs of the Management Unit in Maribor or the Chief of Staff. It was necessary to remove the former Commissioner so that he could then appoint a new Commissioner, Mr Karin Jurša, who ran on the list of Positive Slovenia. We have a whole bunch of such cases, only the staff of Positive Slovenia in this country are suitable for different functions. Let us recall the case of the President of the KPK, Mr Stefanec, and so on. For example, he was not disturbed by the fact that Minister Senko Plitcanic named the Chief of Management Žalec on the last day of his resignation in January. But he didn't replace them, and there was no problem that it was done at the last minute. This points to the double criteria of Mr Virant, and even if he still pours his ashes and is doing the most righteous among the righteous, of course this is not the case. For his reason, when he was talking about legal units, he said he wanted the best people on administrative units. I'm asking him what Mojci Kucler Dolinar and Mr. Speaker are reading. Which would not be the best and how does he know that we would not work for a kind and effective public administration, which is his goal. The Council of Officials noted the expertise, found that they met all the conditions, the invitations were called by Minister Plitschanic, his colleague, who had not warned him that it was too early or too late, or I do not know what. But then he voluntarily decided not to grant these mandates. The other thing that's obvious to the Minister is the airline tickets. He told us that we could have a sense of criteria, that we were in procedures and so on. I am convinced that Minister Virant would be already in the process if, of course, Mr Klemenčič and Rok Praprotnik, whom we can see that they have very interesting connections if they did their work as well as they did, for example at Mr Janez Janš's airline tickets. There were very thorough reviews of who bought it, when bought it, how much did he buy it for. Everything was very precise there. While Mr Virant's very controversial airline tickets are missing, even more so, Minister Virant is lying several times because he says, "the latest disclosure that I ordered tickets myself is no news, as I have never claimed otherwise." Which is a lie. KPK confirmed that it did not have the content of electronic messages showing that Gregor Virant was directly negotiating the purchase of airline tickets. And KPK wrote in its report, "from the statements and documentation submitted by Gregor Virant, it appears that his wife regulated the purchase of airline tickets for the family flight to Paris and Brussels. She was doing this through Mojca Braz's friend, who confirmed it in the interview with KPK." What did Minister Virant say? I used to turn to a family acquaintance who was a commercial director at Adria. I did not request or expect any special benefits from him, I only expected a proper offer, in accordance with the rules of the air carrier. So, if Minister Virant – let's remember when he bought very cheap airline tickets, we recapitalized Adrio with our money, we gave 80 million euros at the time, which is why Minister Virant, who is so honest, would rather pay not less for cards in this logic. But no, he doesn't think that's a problem. In his letter to his members, he writes, "I sometimes turned to a family acquaintance who was a commercial director at Adria, who I did not ask for or expected any special benefits, only a proper offer". So if Minister Virant has not violated anything, which he says is not the case, it is obvious that Mr Kostnajšek has violated the law. And I ask Minister Virant whether he initiated a criminal procedure or accused him of having sent him a request and asked him for a correct offer, and this lump gave him a cheap offer. Did he indict him and report it? Now he's an internal minister, and he has to investigate these things with the authorities, so with the police. Did he press charges? I also ask him whether he has made an appeal on the basis of what he said about the contract that his parliamentary group had with the company, the consulting company. For here I also ask him whether the matter seems disputed to him, or not. He was only talking about having nothing to do with it, but Mr Branisei is talking about everything. I'm asking him whether it's a dispute or not whether it's corruption or not. And if so, did he report his business or colleague Branislí to determine whether it was corruption or whether it was a violation of the law? The Minister of the Interior is now in charge of such matters, which he must officially initiate if he knows them. Unless he thinks it's not corruption, but then let him put it here. He has not said anything so far about this, except that he did not sign it and that he had nothing to do with it, because Mr Braniselj, the leader of the Group of Members, is. I've got one more flower to remind you of what Minister Virant said. He said they reported correctly on television to reduce the number of employees after the ZUJF. True, but he does quite differently. I have the data, first of all from the minutes of the meeting which he had with the Union of State Authorities of the Republic of Slovenia 30. 8. 2013 at the House of Unions, Dalmatia 4, Ljubljana, where he said in the reform of administrative units: "The Minister undertakes that the reorganisation will not result in surpluses of public servants employed in the administrative unit, for which he is also willing to sign a special agreement with the unions." This minister, who here explains how much he has reduced administrative units and employees in the public sector, speaks here and at a union meeting he promises them there will be no forgiveness. And he really isn't, he doesn't do what he said was happening after the ZUJF, because we have one administration unit that says there's no more work in the department and that's why they're proposing a permanent transfer, I don't know how many workers, but at the same time, the head of the departments that should be retired in May and June 2014 will extend the employment for two years. That's what Minister Virant does. Here it is planting flowers and explaining how well it works and so on, how it reduces employees in the public sector and so on, and in fact it works quite differently. The reduction of public servants was at the expense of other professions, especially the police and elsewhere. But probably not in administrative units, because the minister has promised not to do so, that he will also be willing to sign a special agreement with the union, that there will be no fewer employees, and here he will come to advocate a reform programme that says that you will cut the public sector by 5%, the minister responsible for the public sector. Too many lies, if you don't mind me saying, too much howling into the cellophane, too much avoiding responsibility, so of course I think Minister Virant deserves to start doing something other than being Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Dr. Jelusic, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u82	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Nice hello to you all! Today, there is such a debate as we have been given several times, about everything possible and very little about what is on the agenda. In my opinion, I am grateful to the predecessor for having opened one of those which actually concerns the work and responsibility of the Minister of Interior and Public Administration. The vast majority of previous critics, however, referred to matters that were either of the Minister's personal life prior to his office or related to matters that were not substantively related to his work and the responsibilities of the minister or ministry on which he is currently working. Again, we have felt that there is a whole series of criticisms, or perceptions, that some would like to address either this minister or the Prime Minister or another minister. And this need for a discussion of readings is increasingly showing, and it seems to me that our Rules of Procedure do not at all allow for a discussion of such things, if of course we stick to it, because we are increasingly turning into some kind of Hyde reading park, where the topic is far from what is being talked about or is a topic on the agenda, and where there are no true answers, where there are also many silent readings, but they cannot always be said in a voice and where, of course, there is a vote on the subject more after the assessment of whether we are an opposition or a coalition, than after what the content has been discussed. Today, we had an opportunity to listen to the debate with the minister, who has been a long-standing political companion of one of the parties, who today has a very high level of criticism at his expense. And those of us who are observers on the side, we can't explain this to each other in any other way, as if it were an insult from some time, a common one, not even a family life. It is obvious that the time when the minister and his client left a coalition, the government has fallen to the point that you obviously cannot get over it. And you still want to talk about those times. But I suggest that, unless it goes otherwise, we introduce here in the National Assembly this room of speakers, in which there will be no public, where you can account for what happened once. As we did at the outset, in writing and this morning we were able to listen to the anger of an individual because he was expelled from a certain political party that actually helped him to a parliamentary seat in the National Assembly. It is not possible to get rid of the feeling that there are family disputes and accounts that we would like to put into the context of interpretation, namely the debate on the work and responsibility of the Minister of Interior and Public Administration. We have also had one special lesson today, a very interesting lesson, a lesson from the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, when one of our Members has been questioning the Minister for more than half an hour, with procedural questions over what the Rules of Procedure prescribes for procedural matters. Came, interrogated, and left. All those on the list for discussion are, of course, waiting for the gentleman who has now had time to carry out this mission to disappear. Such interpretations, of course, cannot be supported in such a way as to be prepared and thus advocated. Whatever one of us thinks about the work of the Minister of the Interior or the public administration or is critical of any of the points of the Ministry's work, but such interpretations and the kind of content that we are talking about today cannot be supported. And here I think we all have to ask ourselves together what the values of our Members are, what the values of ministers are. Are the values of us Members constantly in violation of the rules of procedure that was adopted once? Are the values involved in dealing with the issues that our public expects us to resolve in the National Assembly at this time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mrs. Eva Irgle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! If Mr. Minister were to be interviewed today, Dr. Virant with us, I would also welcome him, and I hope he will accompany us in the National Assembly. However, we would expect him to sit here with us in the National Assembly at the time of the interpolation and listen to the results of the interpolation. Let me explain that I have not signed myself under this interpretation, which has also been signed by some members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, but I believe that the Minister of the Interior should have left the ministerial position at the time of the first interpretation. The second would not be necessary at all, but at the time of the first interpretation, the Minister of the Interior should leave this function. At the time of the first interpretation, we discussed a series of topics, but the one that I think was most crucial is also linked to the current interpolation, and this is a matter of cheap air travel. The issue of low-cost airline tickets is related to the issue of integrity. On the issue of integrity. Of course, we wanted to add the recruitment point to the first interpretation, as regards the chiefs of administrative units, but we were not heard at the time. The new Slovenia, which proposed this interpolation, did not then decide to talk about it, but now this point is also covered in this interpolation. Let me remind you of some really strange personnel, especially with the heads of administrative units in the case of Grosuplje, in the case of Ljubljana, for example, a controversial appointment in Maribor and a repeated invitation to tender in the case of the administrative unit Ilirska Bistrica. To make it clear to all that, once again, the procedures for these appointments or for the competitions did not start with Mr Cernač as Minister, as mentioned earlier by the Minister of the Interior, but started with these procedures a minister coming from the Minister's party, i.e. a colleague of Dr Virant. Mr Plitzenic was the one who started these procedures. But it is true that then Minister Virant, when he took over this ministry from a colleague, his own colleague Plitsanič, turned everything upside down. He turned the logic of his own minister over his head. And this is undoubtedly the questionable decisions of Minister Virant, which show that the administrative units in this case act in some way as a kindergarten for the political recruitment of the National Gazette. The second issue, which is extremely important and reflects individual integrity, we have already spoken in the first interpretation, are airline tickets, unjustifiably high discounts on Slovenian airline Adria Airways. It is not too much to point out that this is a state-owned company. The minister bought cheap airline tickets not only for himself but also for his family. And it is a fact that respected Mr Virant has never been able to explain convincingly the purchases of airline tickets. In recent times, we have had very interesting cases from both political and government authorities, when ethics is only included under pressure from the public. On the one hand, we have Mr Virant, on the other hand we have no longer the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, but until recently, the President of the Commission, who both knew how to point directly to those whom they had chosen as targets, both of whom had significantly lower criteria for integrity. We're not talking about respect for laws, we're talking about the constitution, we're talking about integrity. About four months ago, I am President of the Commission for the Prevention of Magi Corruption. She sent an open letter to Goran Klemenčič, where I asked him to explain in the first instance the disputed airline ticket, because Mr Klemenčič got them for his study. But I didn't get an answer until today. Four months later, the fact remains that the anti-corruption Commission has reached a conclusion that was already known to everyone in advance as it will and will be agreed upon. What's the key? If you decide to judge the actions of others, what a respected minister did, even when he was president of the National Assembly, then you must be almost blameless yourself, your first example and example. That's Dr. Virant's key problem. Mr Virant also referred to the fact that when he demanded three times the price of airline tickets, it is said that if we say he gave 150 euros for tickets, otherwise they cost about 600 euros for ordinary mortals, then he said he was not an official. And of course, it's twofold, because in other cases, when he pointed to others, he did something different. Here's the problem. Mrs Truda Cinderella – she has been mentioned here many times – has left the Civil Code or as an MP because she has done an act that she was aware of, but before the performance of her post, significantly earlier. So, here's the double criteria. As president of the National Assembly, Dr. Gregor Virant has stood up, I will say, in some way instead of a moral judge who can judge, judge everyone and request clarification. Today, when we want clarifications from Minister Virant, who is intertwined, he does not sit here and explain. He only explained to his colleague Tonin. That's all he explained. My fellow Members have asked us a lot of questions, but he has not answered anything. In order to prevent corruption, the Commission therefore requested the relevant information from the air carrier on the air tickets at issue, with a view, of course, to ascertain whether corruption was suspected in this case. But as we have seen today, in order to review just a few tickets, air tickets, Mr Klemenčič took about one year to review some controversial airline tickets. Obviously, this was the most or one of the Commission's most demanding anti-corruption operations, otherwise already known and agreed result, since the hand washes the hand. We all know how these things went. Even ordinary people are perfectly crystal clear. The destruction of Janez Janša or the government was a specific objective, and Dr. Virant played a key role. A key role with Mr Klemenčič. And today, of course, the men of the background, such and different, made sure that Mr. Deputy Praprotnik, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, was well rewarded, got a job in the NLB, so they probably didn't investigate the controversial loans. So, this is where everything is connected. And don't pretend that it's not connected because it's so transparent and so clear that even those who don't deal with politics and don't follow it every day, it's perfectly clear. There is no argument here to suggest that this was not the case. Perhaps Mr Klemenčič is now looking for a well-paid job. The actions of Minister Virant as a public official are therefore, in some respects, contrary to legal integrity, so in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we believe that Minister Virant should leave his post. Let me make it clear, Mr Minister has talked a lot about everything before, only the points of interpretation are not. This simply means that there are no answers to some key questions. Once again, I will repeat what our group leader, Mr Jože Tanko, has repeatedly asked the minister to explain, but he has not explained, so the fact is that the agreement with Propiar has been signed, which has conducted some kind of courses in the National Gazette. In this company, the company also employs a wife or partner of Mr Praprotnik, who is also supposed to conduct these courses. And what is crucial, and what is the essence of why we are here today, is that Mr Gregor Virant was at that time an investigator of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, first of all when the assets situation of the party presidents was checked, he was in the process as well as others, and Mrs Ljudmila Novak was also in this process, including Mr Janša, also Mr Zoran Jankovic and so on, as party presidents and also Dr Gregor Virant. He was in this process. But he did then also later, not only was this disputed agreement signed because of family relations, but Mr Gregor Virant then met several times with Mr Klemenčič. And those are the problems. In the second case, it was cheap airline routes, which were also assessed by the Anti-Corruption Commission. And this is about integrity, about these connections, about the connections that come together. Here's the key problem. And of course, that is why I think that the Minister of the Interior should leave this position. All I can say is that the Minister is using, as we can see, probably even because of media aid, enough successful excuses, he says he must be convicted by the official institution. Other evidence, integrity issues – they mean nothing. The key question therefore is how Minister Virant intends to proceed with such a breach of public confidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kristina Valenčič, do you have a replica or a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u86	Replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u87	Replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Given that Irgle's colleague mentioned political recruitment in administrative units, and because this is not only being used today, but has been used several times in the National Assembly and also mentions the administrative unit Ilirska Bistrica, where I was also chief, allow me to explain a few things. First of all, the administrative unit has a competent chief. This is the person who has been in the administrative unit since 1995, professional, non-political, has never been a member of any party. Indeed, it is not right to mention it in the context of political recruitment. Next, I was appointed in 2007, I first came to the state administration. Who was in power then? And then I didn't think about politics in my dreams, not in my waking state. By not talking about political personnel, leave the chiefs and administrative units alone to carry out their work professionally and legally. And since we're already asking about the appointment of chiefs of administrative units, do you know where the key problem is? In that professional staff do not apply to such jobs at all. In the specific case of the Illyrian Bistrica Administrative Unit, although we have lost many jobs in the state administration, there have been no applications for border crossings, tax administrations and so on. This is a key problem of recruitment in such institutions, and in general in smaller administrative units or in other state bodies. So, again, please, let's not have administrative units to account for politically.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The following is declared mag to the word as a debater. Ivan Vogrin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! My experience is next. Truth and justice are mostly delayed, but they always come. They always come! Many times late, but they come. That's probably how it's gonna be this time. Of course, the Japanese proverb says When the student is ready, the teacher comes. The question is whether, of course, we are ready for a different approach. Now, about our superior policies and our success. Every hour, Slovenia will be in charge of one million. Every day, every citizen of Slovenia is additionally burdened with a loan of 12 euros, it is 360 euros per month, it is 4 thousand 320 per year. We're so successful. If companies could do that, then they would be super successful and they wouldn't go bankrupt two to three businesses every day. Every day, ladies and gentlemen, since 2008. If we could, when things went bad, raise our prices and hire a loan and hang it for someone else, in that case we'll hang it for the citizens. And I ask, I ask Minister Virant, since 2000 onwards, but today we are 2014 the main player on the Slovenian political floor. Does he seem to have contributed to this? Feel any responsibility for the break of the Slovenian state? When we gained our independence, we had great words about another Switzerland. Do you know where we are now? This can't be a pleasure. Look, I told you what the characteristics of the disease of primary or idiopathic jealousy are, as defined in the book of Parkinson's Law 50 years ago: Don't answer any questions and talk about purely third things. We're witnessing this today. I ask again, I have addressed, once again, perhaps I was not well understood, the Secretary-General of the National Assembly's request, the desire, of course, to clarify whether the consultations were or not, to allow an insight into the log of visits. For I say, and it is written in the interpretation that in these days when we were to be counseled, Madam Vice President, there were not even these people here. Is it made up? And Madam Secretary-General of the National Assembly first replied to me that she cannot, because this is personal data protection and so on, all of this has been published on the website, and I am holding this in hand. If anyone's interested, I'd be happy to give it to him. And we wrote a little, five, six times, and then I suggested to her that she write a letter to Minister Gregor Virant, to Mr Richard Branisl and to Mr Janko Jenk, that he was probably in their interest to prove that it was counseling. She replied that she had not received an answer by the beginning of the session. But if I don't answer, what does it mean? I've already said that if I was somewhere in one company and proved that I advised, I'd say, listen, quickly give me a statement, and I wouldn't, so there are no answers. [[…]] And no one answered that question. No one answered. Dr. Gregor Virant is a doctor of legal sciences, how it is possible that, of course, the parliamentary group had counseling, I should have it, too, only I remember nothing from 16-23, but if there was no contract, no annex, so this is an illegal situation. Of course, as a result, if it is indeed all Mr Richard Braniselj's fault, or he invited him to resign, he is a graduate lawyer, a university lawyer, because he invited me and Mr Mershol and Mr Stepišnik and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not how we're going to get out of developmental error. Did you find out I was missing some time? A gentleman came to the National Assembly, and we went for coffee, and he told me the next story. It's what rains, stories and documentation. He told me, you know, on the plane of Brnik-Skopje, this is Adria's plane, a special flight, because he drives Macedonian workers, who are very much in Slovenia, with this plane, Minister Virant. On this plane there are 90% of workers working in Slovenia for 900, 800, 700 000, 1200 euros. They're going to Macedonia every so long. We all love families, kids and so on, at least normal people. That's all that matters to us. These paid for the 350-euro map and the return of Minister Virant 100. Those poor workers paid him. Ethics and morality. Look, when we're talking about this bureaucracy, let's ask the people who has the feeling that Slovenia is an unbureaucratic country. Among the three, four reasons for Slovenia's economic downturn are the following. High taxes, non-life labour market laws, high red tape and the failure of the banking system. And who do we lie to? Who? Who else are we gonna lie to, how long? But you know that people will come and this House will be burned down. We call them. We call on people because they are tired of these lies, deceptions, delusions, that we are not able Members to say bob beans. Shall I put it another way? I won't. I almost thought I'd say something at home. Members, colleagues and colleagues, you took my immunity nine times, and I didn't ask for it. And today I'm saying I'm going to be hard to convict. The investigation is now under way, and if you remember, I've always been in Parliament. It's embarrassing. It's embarrassing. Where's the minister? He's got no balls. You have to be here when you're accused. If you're a man of honor, you prove yourself innocent. I have no legal conviction, and for two years, I have been accused by a doctor of law who should know – alleged innocence until you are legally convicted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ludmila Novak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u92	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! Today, this debate, I must say, is extremely interesting. She's pointing at a lot of things. Above all, the disease of Slovenian society. And all honour to Mr Vogrin, who has explained his problems here to us, who has also admitted his guilt, even his faults in business and so on. And why do I find today’s debate so interesting about the human side? Because this debate and Minister Virant is a symptom of the disease of Slovenian society. Symptoms of delusion, double criteria, double morality, two truths, lying, and so on. In Slovenia, every day or when we have meetings, we adopt many laws, and yet we are at the top of the corruption scale, we have unresolved disputes for many years and so on. It's hard to get to the truth. Why? I say so myself, because we do not respect the basic laws that are enshrined in the Ten Commandments, but if I let go first, I will say, but let us go forward, not lie, not steal, not bear false witness, not want his neighbor's goods and so on. If only these basic laws were respected, we could respect all other laws. But because we do not respect them, we find holes in all other laws. A while ago, I got some allergies, and I was changing creams and lubricating, and every time there was a new stain. There wasn't and there was no end until I went to the doctor. What did the doctor do? He gave me real ointment, and he discovered the cause of my problems, and he gave me pills to start treating my illness from the inside. And this is also a symbol for Slovenia, it needs treatment from within, and you start within us and it starts in this national assembly. And why we're referring so much evidence against Minister Virant, I find it rather repulsive to repeat them because we've already gone through this process in the previous interpretation. Why? Because he was so often pointing to everything with his finger, but unfortunately he didn't see his mistakes. That's the biggest thing we can tell him. And here, too, are the double criteria. Some are convicted, accused of very small things that can be increased very quickly, and some have a lot of butter on their heads, but this can be very rejuvenated and carried to other waters. Mr Simčič is sitting across from me. You know why the media dragged him around the newspapers for days and days, and when I was with a client on a regional visit to Illyrian Bistrica and the word was also applied to Member Simčič, they could not praise the locals for what was good for the place, what books he wrote and so on. This is where he went to the last bench. And more of these things could be listed. And Minister Virant's proven lies, and unfortunately still the minister of this government. And that's also why this government has a problem, and as far as I've heard from the press, I'd go to Parliament in confidence. It is right if she goes, because in this way, I don't think it's possible to rule anymore, and it's better to go to new elections than someone always says one thing and they do the other. And it's a shame that most of the time the minister isn't here, because this interpolation is primarily for him. And how well did my colleague Matthew Tonin’s findings come to him because he was able to boast about what he had done, but he did not respond to what we read to him. I am sorry that we have double truths in Slovenia in addition to these double standards, and we are threatened that we will continue to have new problems. I mean the discovery of the monument in Grahove, I'm very sorry, I'm going to go there, and, finally, the niece of Franceta Belantič was a long-time associate of mine in Kamnik, good people, a good poet. And we should all go there, actually, and say, that's enough, let's move on. And if our grandfathers fought over three terrible ideologists who came from the outside to us and poisoned the Slovenian nation, I forgive them, for we sin even more. We have a country of our own, we live in peace, we live in democracy, we have prosperity, and we have destroyed this country, or we are on our own to destroy it, because of these internal diseases, because we don't know how to talk honestly, because we don't know how to tell lies and because we have double criteria. I'm going to back Minister Virant's intervention, but if he's a hero, he should step down and be an even bigger hero.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Simčič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u94	Dear Vice President, your honors are here! I wrote myself something, but I don't know if it's worth even talking about, considering there's no minister here. But I'm gonna start like this. On behalf of Mr Gregor Virant, I heard about 2001 when I was a representative of the Slovenian Army Union. With other unions, there are still different gentlemen in the State Council today, the same, sitting on one side, and Mr. Miran Bogataj, the negotiator of the state for the new pay reform, stood opposite us. And on several occasions, he called someone to coordinate, to give in, and to add. And that's the first time I've heard, no, Mr. Virant, that's not what I agree with. And here today he said that he was looking and listening to how they were making up a pay reform. If he was looking from the side, I know quite a few unionists who were with me, and then began a pay reform, which did not raise anything in the public administration, but members and members of the Slovenian Army do not even have monthly bills. It's not. And here today was quoted as an interesting quote, because today you are all full of some thinkers, well-known personalities, but someone said more than 2,000 years ago, which is still celebrated today, and this month we are celebrating the greatest holiday, and he said to the Pharisees, "Who among you is without sin, let the first cast the stone." And the Pharisees retreated. Jesus asked the adulterer, "Did anyone condemn you?" The answer was, "No." "Go away and never sin again." Mr. Secretary, go and do not sin any more. That's where that piece comes from. If you're not legally charged, it's not your fault. Today, all ministers refer to a legal charge. Two years ago, however, Ivan Simčič was the biggest problem in the country. He says it's a certificate from another country. And Mr. Simčič went for a certificate of impunity, of education. And it turns out he's innocent. I've never seen a court or a police force. But the moral judge in this country has judged the act to be, uh, criminal. It's all done. And I have to say thank you to him, too. I would like to continue where Mrs Ludmila Novak remained, in the back row it is very nice. I see you all doing what you're doing. The way you're whispering, the way you're negotiating, it's so nice that I'm going to write a book, but when I get into retirement, not before, because I have a lot of work at the local level. And if I go back to the administrative unit or the public administration. In Illyrian Bistrica, I've told you many times that we have everything. We don't need any of this country. Nothing at all. And there, Mr Virant, since we have been managing this public administration for the last beautiful years, we are waiting – at least on paper, we are waiting for everything on paper on the highway, the curb, everything on paper – and we are also waiting for a new public administration building, the administrative unit, according to the local word. Will we wait? I don't know. To the conclusion. However, Mr Virant has one very good quality and I hope that he will succeed on RTV at some point. When he sees the cameras, something's wrong. The Lord needs help. One way or another. He really needs help. In a number of ways. Because I know that some people who are very recognizable in the media are in a town in America. Now, if he gets there, I don't know, but you can't do to someone else something you don't want them to do to you. And all those stones he threw into all of us, he's just coming back. Apparently, they have issues in the coalition too, because these double criteria can be picked up ten, twenty, thirty years, and the sooner you get to the front of the line, you draw a line and you have to show something. And when I came to the National Assembly, it wasn't for two months, oh, now we're going to end the State Council, and we're going to shut down the congregations, and we're going to end what else. And me, who's from the countryside, because tomorrow I'm probably gonna have to put something in the field to grow up in the fall, I'm gonna have to harvest something. Apparently, some of them are still reaping, but I don't know what. We still have the State Council, the congregations, thank God, and what else could be listed. So I really didn't have the will to come forward, but the people in my place said, and for God's sake, you were the star because he was doing the commercial for you. And I said, well, I'll say something: "Mr. Virant, I forgive you all. Enjoy your mission."
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mag. Katarina Hotchevar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the Secretary of State and all my colleagues and colleagues! Today we have an obviously debate-fixing circle, because this cannot be interpolation, because interpellation after the constitution is an institution that talks about the work and responsibility of the minister. And only this and only this can be read to Minister Virant – responsible work. Whenever Gregor Virant was Minister, there was a lot of work and work going on in that department, no matter who the Prime Minister was. And because it goes into some people's noses, because, of course, it's much easier if nothing's done, because then there's no problems, there's no conflict, and because you can't find any mistakes in his work, then you're looking for the quasi-swelling of the veins. Gregor Virant is interested in solutions. He realizes that the nation can't eat paper and can't get enough of words. You've been reading his salary reform a lot. Mr Simčič says that the soldiers have too low wages, Mr Vogrin says we are in charge of his salary reform. With money running low, the fact is that if we did not enter this crisis with a new salary reform, we would have 16% higher wages. At least these relationships in public administration are now manageable. And the salary reform, Mr Vogrin, was put into practice in 2008, and you were on Gregor Virant's list in 2011. The most frequently expressed thought or criticism is that he likes to throw stones, and he likes to point his finger at others. But, look, I have a feeling that so many pussies, so many criticisms as you all have, individual parliamentary groups, either thrown or pointed out on the Civil List, the Civil Gazette is not on any of you. Look, we hear many times from the Member of Parliament that politics falls on ethics and morality. However, I have never read, but many times I have to listen to these criticisms on our behalf or on our President's behalf that a member of the supervisory board has resigned from the assembly at this assembly because he said that they do not otherwise have cousins, but that they hide accounts. Let us also take a look at what each individual declares, not that in this country, Dr. Virant is responsible for every matter. And I'm going to make a public statement now. You always tell me in front of the camera in public what he was doing wrong, but in the background, most of the time you tell me that thing – What did he have to cut into parliamentary privileges, into cell phones, into parliamentary flats and into lower wages? The first novel we tabled in the National Gazette was the novel of the Law on Members, but you do not speak in public, so all the varieties become entangled. The only observation that somehow relates to his work is the recruitment or appointment of chiefs of administrative units. The procedure was indeed initiated by Dr. Plitschani, but it was completed by Minister Cernač. Dr. Lulcanic didn't name those chiefs you're reading. And now I'm only going to tell you two cases. Do you think it correct that Zoran Jankovic, the mayor of Ljubljana, today would appoint Britta Bilac as the director of the municipal administration from November 1st? Or should your leader, Mr. Aco Šuštar, be appointed today as director of the Water Commune, Mr. Jernej Pavlin? In one case, we'd jump one in the other. All I'm saying is that this was stocked, seven months in advance, and he canceled or intervened. This interpolation is lurking, but there's nothing around here. Even with those unfortunate airline tickets. As far as I know, the minister said that as a minister in office, he never regulated his own card. And now look, please, whether you buy, respected citizens or citizens, one product or service, or do a sales analysis and strategy of a particular company. He bought the tickets because he didn't order them from Adrie's staff, but from the marketing director. And he paid 150 euros for the map to Skopje, and he has an account for it. Some, for example, cannot explain where they received $30,000 in cash. So it is not a problem that some worry that a citizen has received a discount from a particular company that concerns me more about other matters, that it is true that the competent institutions have identified catastrophic business practices in a state firm. And when one of you mentioned one e-mail, I will read an email sent to me yesterday by one of our citizens: "For 15 years ago, Adria Airways had a special category – sales of group cards. At that time, my son studied in Germany, and I obtained six tickets twice through the regular sales service. I think the price of the return ticket was about 60 marks. And believe me, I had no connections and no knowledge." So, look, the problem is that this police is obviously doing too well because Dr. Virant is not politically involved and, of course, it is not pleasing to the tycoons, including some politicians. That he's proposing a merger of municipalities and that he's "in the luft" of half the mayors. To bring under the roof a bunch of laws that have already been pointed out to us by international institutions, such as the Law on Political Parties, has accumulated dust on them for decades at the Ministry. That his actions are slightly different from that of most in politics. That New Slovenia, on the same day when it signs the interpellation, first of all for it, it is still friendly with this parliamentary group to coordinate how the coalition should support their amendment. And we did. It's just Gregor Virant's policy, which, of course, some people aren't. The worst is, of course, the novel of the U.S.S. It was not until two years later that I, as a member of the National Assembly, realized in fact that there were some uncles or strong lobbyes in the background. And then, by preparing themselves or when the matter went to the end to get this novel under the roof, they, of course, also began to attack Minister Virant. Finally, it is also fair to say that the biggest savings under this government was made by Minister Virant with a trade union sign on wage cuts in the public sector. Of course, I cannot support this interpretation, but I really suggest a little more understanding and prudence in the production of new interpretations. Many say that I am naive, but I am certain of something, especially those Members on the opposite side that you have signed, but I still believe that I would not if I read it. That's my opinion. If I'm naive, God help me. I think the vote against Virant is a vote against the rule of law and the fight against corruption. And so I will say, let the courts and other competent institutions determine or already determine who the real parasites of this country are and who ate the grain from the cereals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Simčič has applied for the replica and Mrs Sonja Ramšak, Miran Pojbič, Marko Pavlisič and Daniel Krivec will be discussed below. Here you go, Mr. Simchich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. I'd like to replicate Mrs. Hotchevar. All I said was what the Department of Defense unions said. You have a coalition on Sunday. Ask the Secretary of Defense what they told him. Not anymore. And just as we were joined by the former President of the National Assembly and the current one, I would just like to add to my previous explanation that Mr Weber would be a good mentor to Mr Virant as President of the National Assembly, because he has all the Members on the same waves. And it does not comment on certain Members before the rule of law says something and concludes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sonja Ramshak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State! I am not a signatory to the interpretation against Minister Gregor Virant, but today's performance by the President of the Government and Minister Virant himself has put a stop to the fact that I am sorry that I have not been signed under the interpretation, esteemed colleague of Hočevar. Just because of what we're reading on this page, I'm going to say again those divisions of yours: ours, top: bottom, left: right. And I'm going to say, we're all Members and Members of Parliament, we work by the same constitution and we work by the same laws, but we work by something else, we work by morality, by ethics, by respect, by the culture of dialogue. And what was happening today by the Minister, when he insulted the Parliament and the Members on this side, he insulted the National Assembly, insulted the institution of the National Assembly, and no one on your part objected to this performance. Nobody. And then you'll say Minister Virant has the same criteria. He doesn't have any. I'm sorry. We're one against him. You're one for him. And I personally have nothing against Minister Virant. But what I do have against the status of integrity, morals and ethics, and when you condemn others, it's good that, in fact, somehow by nature, it comes back to you as a boomerang. And that's what's happening today. Given that very few Members and Members have notified themselves to the debate today, I myself have been thinking about actually canceling my announced debate. But I told myself, if you're gonna do this, you're actually going to act against your integrity. And what is my integrity? All my life, since I was little, everyone either in school or at work or anywhere they know that I've always fought for those who were wronged. Even today, if Minister Virant had been wronged if there were no documents, it would have been the one on your right side that you say would have taken him into protection, but I can't because from the first day I crossed the threshold of this House, I somehow felt appalled at what was happening over some Members and Members of Parliament. I'm taking over some people. Based on what? You all say that we must respect the Constitution and the laws. That's what I say, but when you judge others, make sure you don't really get convicted yourself. And Minister Virant, we have often, for four years, practically every Monday we sat at some work lunches when he was still members of the so-called Slovenian Democratic Party. When we discussed, at the professional level, in the framework of the Slovenian Democratic Party's professional council on solutions and what would be good for Slovenia, I must say that many times I agreed with its expert discussions, and I must also say that perhaps the first time I did not agree with it, it was once about a constitutional debate, because you know, five different lawyers, five different opinions. But that doesn't affect it, but when he lost my trust and integrity to me. The moment he decided that he was, without telling those who respected him and appreciated that he would set up his client to take over the party's programme and that he would go to elections with people who had either left the Slovenian Democratic Party or were excluded from it. To make use of his connections, which he had in the past and invited to his client, as far as I know, some 16 chiefs of administrative units, and I know others have received the calls. That was when Mr Virant lost his integrity and respect for me. And what you're saying today, and that you're practically interpreting colleague Iv Vogrina today. He is, as colleague Novakova has said well, I respect him. What he's done has done a lot of people in this country. He set up a company for good purpose, successfully led it, employed people, but at a certain point, someone decided that Ivan Vogrin’s tentacles should be closed. And Ivan Vogrin isn't the only citizen or entrepreneur that happens to him. Why do you not condemn those who allowed Ivan Vogrin to have such a huge loan that he could not repay so that he could not pay the contributions that the Tax Administration did not react at the right time? Why don't you judge those people why they didn't put him in bankruptcy at the time when he could settle these issues? No, in our country, institutions are used for certain people when someone throws a light or a shadow at that man because he doesn't like it because of a certain statement. And today, when you talk about what Ivan Vogrin is, and now I'm going to say that, in fact, at the very beginning of the interpretation, the distinguished Minister Virant said, "between fifteen and twenty criminal proceedings about this interpretation says very much, not everything, I have a lot more to say, but it says very much, even counting them didn't know." Mr Vogrin himself said that nine immunitys or procedures were dealt with on the Mandate-Election Commission, but Minister Virant counted them from fifteen to twenty. Now I'm asking you, why didn't you think about why our courts didn't bring all these proceedings together in one trial? No, no, no. It is necessary to spend tax money and it is necessary to destroy a person with nine criminal charges and so on. But in certain cases, the procedures merge. And what do we do by leading up to Mr. Vogrin's nine procedures? Nine judges, nine senators, nine prosecutors were probably involved in this case. And it's unacceptable that there are nine procedures. This is our country's problem and this is the problem of falling behind in the judiciary and this is the problem of our fair and legal state. And we're moving on. And then the minister says, "So much for the credibility of the first one signed. And in this society you obviously feel good about the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, because you are not selective, which is what has to be done with Virant." What did Minister Virant do here? Unacceptable for a minister, he passed a judgment of value. Who gives Minister Virant the right to a judgment of value? I don't think anyone does. It can be declared on its own account, not on behalf of Members and Members of the National Assembly. And let's get to it first. "This is about the play of the constitutional order," meant the interpretation, "the National Assembly and the mockery of citizens and citizens who also pay you to investors of interpretation." Now I'm asking myself here, but no one has wondered what's wrong with the salary of both State Secretaries here, why the Secretary of State has to sit here so well, why Mr Virant is not sitting. No, he prefers to walk around the park around the National Assembly, at least the hour the previous head of today's meeting said Mr. Virant was at lunch. So much for that. Why? Because you have to write that Mr Minister will be able to answer questions from Members and Members, which we will not get an answer to anyway. And they're a busy bunch. Now I will also focus on that substantive part of the interpolation, and I will return to what some Members and Members may be in pain, which is to the so-called political recruitment of the chiefs of administrative units. See, Minister Virant did not, in fact, react to the appointment of the Chief of Administration, Murska Sobota Dominik Steiner, who was appointed by Minister Senko Plicanič because Dominik Steiner was the candidate of the National List of Gregor Virant at the 2011 State Elections and as such politically profiled. If only professional criteria were to always be applied but not political discrimination, that probably would not be the case. The express political recruitment of the chiefs of the administrative unit, where political belonging and personal acquaintance were the first and only criteria, was carried out on the Maribor administrative unit, where Minister Gregor Virant appointed Chief Karin Jurša, his co-worker and candidate on the list Positive Slovenia. In doing so, he repeated a call that Karin Jurša did not apply for the first time, a fact that indicates that Minister Gregor Virant did not act on professional criteria this time, but only political criteria, is without question the fact that the first invitation to tender did not select Commissioner Željko Vogrin, who was duly assessed by the Special Competition Commission of the Official Council, and was previously evaluated by Minister Gregor Virant with an excellent evaluation. What's that? This is Gregor Virant's political decision. And there's another possibility for a minister in charge of the public administration. You know very well that the chiefs of administrative units do not all fall under the invitation to tender because the Minister also has the right to appoint a certain quota of chiefs again without a call for tender. What's different than essentially a way of political recruitment, if I like you, if I respect you, of course I'll hire you again, and if you're ours, of course, if you belong to the right system and the right option. If we went over the last ten years to analyze all the appointments made by the chiefs of administrative units, we'd be looking at more than 50 percent political staffing. And you can report me tomorrow, and I don't know which institution, because I'm used to threats, even by lawyers from other countries, and no one reacts to that much about double morality. And interesting. The case that we have described relates to the Chief of Administration of the Unit of Žalec, and when you say so, how must all be blameless and so on. The Chief of Administration, Žalec Simona Stanter, was previously employed by the Anti-Corruption Commission before a public invitation to tender and was then appointed Chief of Management Unit Žalec, but interestingly, the Chief of Management Unit Žalec had already been employed by the administrative unit, committed a crime because she had issued an arms document and was therefore convicted. But interestingly, I don't judge her, because if the trial deadline expired and so on, she meets all the conditions for the chief. But double criteria, in one case this is taken into account, are not taken into account in others. And here's what we say on this side, that politics really falls on integrity, morality and ethics. Let me also be allowed, even though I know that many people feel like wasting time today, and I do not think that such discussions are too small, that we are too limited to the rules of procedure of the National Assembly and that those who today think they have a better job, yes, perhaps, but the results of the country are catastrophic. And that's what we need to worry about. When you come to the National Assembly, that the President of the Government will be with us for 24 hours in here to coordinate the measures that would be necessary when the coalition and the opposition unite, then I will say, and this is the real coalition that needs to be supported, its actions when it works for the good of people and citizens. And about dual morality and ethics, respected colleagues and colleagues. I'm sorry, with this contract you made with Propiar society, of course, there's nothing controversial. However, it is disputed that one of the founders of this company is also Alenka Vidic, who is a wife or partner, because apparently according to her last name they are not married, whether they live in a non-marital community which is treated equally, in fact, the owner of this company. And interestingly, of course, together with Mrs Anjo Križnik Tomažin, and interestingly, this company is doing pirar, public consulting for other ministries as well. And what's really interesting is what Minister Virant used to say to show when that spiral comes up and down, when someone gets more work. It is this company that received in 2013 – interesting – a huge new job, advice and among these are the Court of Auditors, the Ministry of Justice, even state-owned companies, and so on. It's a double morale. And today the minister says he doesn't know who owns this company, but he was actually on one public platform where even the partner of this Alenke Vidic Mr. Rok Praprotnik instead of Mr Klemenčič, because he found it distasteful because the media started to connect him to this company, and he was Minister Virant. And nothing. And don't fool us into thinking that Minister Virant is telling the truth. Yeah, he doesn't say exactly a lie, but maybe something in between. But this is not worthy of one minister. And when he condemns individual Members and Members of Parliament, esteemed fellow Members, and when you do not condemn when you speak for one, Mr Vogrin, it is enough that the charges are filed, that there is a suspicion that he has committed fraud, and that in the Government we have people suspected of having committed fraud, fictitious contracts, but not at the expense of their money and their company, but at the expense of the state, budget money or local community. And you have not condemned this with a single word in this House! This is the problem of our society and our integrity and morality. And, of course, those disputed cards again. He's here against double morality. I can't get a ticket like that, and I wouldn't even think that I could call someone and say, "Wow, I want to go to the Bahamas tomorrow, but I can get a half-price plane ticket," not even in my dreams. I pay everything I've paid for my life with my money, so some people tell me I don't settle bills because I don't have rich parents, because I don't have some kind of tycoon to bring me an envelope, because I'm fighting for a fair and legal state because I condemn crime and corruption, so that's why it's happening today, what's going on. And because you don't separate what's moral and what's ethical and what's the integrity of one public official. I'm sorry that I had to point out some things, but I think it's right that today was this debate, that it was an interpolation. I have to say we'll back her up. I have not read professionally, although I do not agree with a number of things proposed by Minister Virant, who easily eliminates half of the municipalities. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I really suggest you go to the field in Slovenia, go to small municipalities and let the people and employees in the congregation tell you how hard they have gathered and what progress they have made in the years when they have good mayors, when they have good leadership of the congregation and whether people are happy with it. The city municipality of Celje sometimes covered the area of Dobrne, Vojnika, Stor and Celje, but then Dobrna, for example, which is a very small congregation, did not have what is today and is evolving. I believe that we could have even more if, for example, there was a chance that the real mayor would be, and that he could run somewhere for some means, or that some project would be supported. Or if the state, as co-owner of some thermals, behaved in a different way so that the whole place could breathe. Or when we talk about the congregation of Store, it is also from my constituency, and I talk about these congregations, but I will also talk about smaller congregations when they don't even have a local office. Five thousand people don't have a chance to handle their affairs and have to go to Celje. They don't have a local office once a week. And we would still be abolishing rather than giving certain powers to the congregations. What are administrative units? Have we, colleagues and colleagues, forgotten what happened, when administrative units were formed, and why? Why did we take the responsibility of the congregations to carry out these affairs for the country? The municipalities were able to carry out delegated duties from the country to the congregations. But no, it was necessary to establish a new structure for public servants. And that machine got rich. And don't tell me, I've been working 37 years practically, 32 years in the public sector, 5 years in the economy, not knowing public administration, I know how to breathe, I know how people work. What is the problem with our public administration? Management. What is also a problem in our companies in the majority ownership of the country or even in 100% of their property, because those who run them are incompetent, incompetent and stealing for their pockets. And this has to be condemned and this has to be judged here and pointed out to those people. When Minister Virant spoke about the revolutionary Law on Access to Public Information, he, of course, forgot to mention that only after he met with the opposition's members did he find out why it would be good to include information on bad loans remaining in banks, because we explained to him that some of his friends would require that they remain in banks and that they would not disclose themselves and that this was calculated in this law. And then there was the creation of these amendments. Indeed, the amendment then submitted by the National Gazette was a bit broader, and the State Secretary was also at the time of the discussion when we showed with arguments why all bad credits should be disclosed; who gave them, who approved them, who produced them. And today, if you ask entrepreneurs, we're destroying good companies. You've transferred good companies to the Claims Management Company. Why? Because some have already taken an eye on certain successful companies or, above all, tourism in this company, in order to reduce the value of these companies by half and that one has already happily collected the claims and also these companies. Well, that's what happens to you, and if you're in the field, then you know it. So, dear fellows and colleagues, I will certainly support the interpellation against the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Marian Pojbich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I must start by saying that I am really very sad, disappointed that we have ministers like Minister Virant in our government. First of all, I would expect more from him because, as far as it's clear he has a doctorate, but after what I've read, I wonder if a doctorate is made in a way like Alenka Bratušek's Master's degree, then it's possible to understand what's written here in the answer. Now I'm going to read and quote a sentence written in his response to the interpolation. He wrote: "The flat readings of the applicants of the document, which are not based on facts and evidence, are ordinary slander, unworthy and inappropriate for members of the National Assembly. Such conduct by a group of Members [[Mr Vogrin and the nine SDS Members]] Declines the reputation of the National Assembly." It degrades the reputation of the National Assembly. And I'm one of those signatories to this interpolation. This is an insult to me. So, it comes from this, if I understand correctly, that I am a disgrace in this House. And the people who voted in the last national elections in my constituency – 40 per cent of the electoral beneficiaries in the constituency voted for me and the third term I am in the National Assembly. I got almost as many votes as all the other parties together and all the other candidates together. And one of the ministers of this government allows himself to make a valuable judgment about me in this way. This is extremely irresponsible, extremely unacceptable, extremely rude. My dear colleagues and colleagues, because Minister Virant, Minister of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, has allowed himself to speak so about us Members, and I will now tell you what I think of Mr Virant and what the majority of the Slovenes think of Mr Virant. For me, Mr. Virant is a mere arrogant man. Pure bureaucrat. And he's the last person in this country to talk about ethics, honesty, responsibility and political hygiene. So, respected colleagues and colleagues, look at the polls and you will see that Gregor Virant can set up a mirror and that mirror shows him what Slovenian citizens and citizens think about him. And, dear colleagues and fellow citizens, I do not condemn you, but I will tell you, as long as you have such a president who will allow such valuable judgments on Members, you will not come to one percent of the polls, believe me. And you have to think about it, I have no problem with it. And now to go a little further to this interpolation. I am sure that Mr Virant has lost all his authority and everything he has said so far at the second point of this interpolation. As we can see, when these treaties were written here, in this second point, when these treaties were signed, he was a member of this parliamentary group, the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Gazette, the President of these parties, at the same time and today he claimed that he knew nothing about these treaties, namely, that it was a matter of the President, namely, the Head of the Group of Members, and that he knew nothing about it. He is the chairman of the party and a member of the parliamentary group. Yes, my dears, colleagues and colleagues, tell me, who can, if they can, fall for this kind of deception? Who else in this country will accept such a diversion? This is not possible, this is not normal, it is not acceptable for the Minister to allow himself to take responsibility for a third party only in order to protect himself and the government in this coalition and to prevent the government from falling. Nor would it be necessary to fall because you certainly have people who are significantly more responsible in the Civil Code who are significantly more respectful in this country and who would significantly improve their role as interior minister than Gregor Virant is doing now. Let's keep going. Lately, in the last year, there has been a lot of media coverage about Mr Virant and his moral-ethic attitude. Among other things, the following was written, if you remember a little back, it seems to me that this is of exceptional importance, and the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have remembered all of this, be free of worry, they will never forget it if you remember when they received a €22,000 stench refund. And in the end, it turns out he didn't even live there. He took his rent because he's near the dump site, but he didn't even live there. And he was shamelessly receiving 22,000 euros. Second thing. For the 40th birthday – that's all from the media, that's not what I invented, it's all written down – which he celebrated in the logistic center of Brdo, he ordered tables, chairs, baldahines, and the umbrellas that they brought to him, set them up, and also took them away and paid only 60 euros. Look, if this is, someone can explain to me whether it's normal and logical, and if these are some normal prices for these services, then I don't know. [[…]] He also co-sponsored the study Management of Protocol Facilities, for which he received EUR 2 000 170. After his ministerial mandate, he received EUR 61 000 762 in a year, and only after the journalists discovered this issue, because he also worked contractually with the Macedonian government and at the same time earned more than EUR 106 000 of contract money, he returned EUR 18 000 888 to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and thought that the Slovenian people would buy it. That the Slovenian people would buy it. That's before the press found out, he shut up. Next, he was also a co-author of the collective agreement for the Red Cross, for which his institute charged EUR 9 000 300. Further, when the President of the National Assembly signed a contract for the purchase of 156 laptops, which were estimated to have been overpaid by some to EUR 80,000. Where's that money? Why didn't anyone ever reveal it and find out?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u103	Mr. Pojbich, this is not an interpolation matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u104	It's because it's connected to integrity. We're talking about integrity, dear vice president. And if we heard what the President of the Government was saying here today when she was presenting the programme, and I don't know what the Minister has been saying, what they've done in recent years and what they're going to do. Is this related to interpolation? So please, if you've been through here not to interrupt me because you have no right, because this debate has gone in every direction today. Please, please, please. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u105	I've been here, and I have the right to interrupt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u106	I know you do, Madam Vice President, but please, if everyone else has anything to say, let me say this for a few more minutes, and I will finish this debate myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u107	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u108	Thank you very much. I wanted you to break up with me at the end of the day. I wanted to go back to buying airline tickets. At the end of this flight map, maybe they wouldn't even be at all unknowing how controversial, maybe I don't know how controversial they are. But do you know what the problem is? That Mr. Virant, Minister of the Interior, lied. He lied. It's all written here. I'll read it to you. I'll quote everything so no one will say I made it up because it's all written here. I didn't make that up. Not a word. And I'll read it, which is written, diary 18. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the Virant’s claims and facts are as follows: “I never asked Adria for or expected any privileges or benefits – 26 April 2013. Fact: When buying tickets, Virant turned directly to commercial director Adria rather than to regular sales places and website. The motive for this could only have been an expected benefit. Second, I've never affected these prices. I ordered an offer, got it, and paid the bill as it was — May 9, 2013. Fact: Don't hold. Virant knew he'd pay less for tickets over Costa Rica. It was not a classic bidding, and Virant, as a regular airline user, must have known for sure how much a ticket would cost in a regular sale. The discounts received by Virant were higher than those granted for tickets from his classes by the IAT resolutions. Thirdly: In my years of receiving benefits, I was not a public official. May 9, 2013. The fact. No, he also received more favourable tickets at the time of the Minister of Public Administration. Moreover, the individual’s ethics and integrity are not qualities that the official could exclude during periods when he is not in public office. Fourth time. I will resign from all functions if it is found that I have done something illegal or unethical — May 9, 2013. Fact: Despite the assessment of the KPC by Virant, it is unacceptable that the recipients of Adria's cheaper airline tickets, which is majority owned by the State, did not give up until yesterday. And the fourth time. The purchase of airline tickets was regulated by the wife – 14 October 2013 at the KPK hearing. Fact: No, they were also discussed by Gregor Virant himself." So, respectable colleagues, is there anything else that needs to be added here? Is there anything else you need to add here? Can any of the Members and Members defend such a minister who speaks about some of the great ethical standards that he does not take into account in himself? Everyone in this House knows how to behave, what is right and so on. But with him, he does everything on the average that he can think of. For me, such a minister is unworthy and, of course, I will also support this interpretation against him.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Pavlišič has the following word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. Mr Pojbič, of course, there is much more to add in this debate, especially that some are not double morals, but above all the problem is that they are completely moralless. However, if I may remind you, you have forgotten to mention the Slovenian people in your debate, which is what you like to do. Mr Pojbič, you are a member of the SDS Group, please list some contracts that you know are signed with the SDS Group. One, two, three, four, five, here you go, as a replica, name them because you know them out of your head. This is what you expect members of the parliamentary groups to know about everything signed, so I'll say, out of my head. And read who's signed under these papers that you're waving over there. Read who is signed below, because they know what they have signed, others, look, I'm afraid not. Mr Vogrin said that the tax authorities had found that there was nothing wrong with the business that the KPK presented to him. Yeah, probably taxes were paid, it's a tax review. The tax does not review the content of these contracts and what the PSC has read. The tax check, if the taxes were paid, and yes, is likely to have been paid, as it went from the National Assembly's account of the matter and it has already had to be taken care of in this way. On several occasions, Mrs Truda Cinderella, a former member of the Parliamentary Group, was limited. Mrs Truda Cinderella was legally convicted in the High Court of Justice. And this was the reason why he is no longer a member of the Group of Members. I don't know what the criteria are, what the penalty should be for this to happen to you, but here was the reason the verdict was. Mrs Jeraeva mentioned something about the rationalisation of public administration. It was not clear, though, whether we should rationalize it or not. Let it be clear whether it is in favour of rationalisation or not, and we will see that it is very likely that it supports Mr Virant in these ways. Mrs Irgle – several cards have been reviewed for so long. Read the KPK report. This report speaks of the thousands of cards that were reviewed when they began to open the matter, and they ran into thousands of cards and so it took, according to them, so long. Yes, of course, there weren't all thousands of cards tied to Mr. Gregor Virant, some of them were his, but when they went through the whole thing, and if you took things seriously, you just looked at everything that was involved. And Mrs Irgle, who is unfortunately not here, I believe that she is listening and will answer, we have not examined our relationship for our treaty, but I am very interested in whether you have reviewed the relationship between your contract and your English teacher. Did you check the family ties there? You had an English teacher, didn't you? Mrs Sonja Ramšak, I'm going in a row to answer a little bit, which was all set up here in the National Assembly. Mrs. Sonja Ramšak, how long have you been on stage or your client and how long have you been DL? Answer that. And how much for all these weaknesses of the state administration, which you have long and wide explained and associated with the congregations, how much your client is responsible for and how much ours is responsible for this. All past work, all 20 years, is probably responsible for the National List, because we have been here for 2 years, of course. And how did you not correct all of this when you were four years old? Yeah, Virant did it for those four years, too. And Mr Janša is completely incapable of doing so. Isn't that right, Mr Grimes? But, look, I'm not just going to, I'm going to say, speak ill of you, I must say that most of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members deserves to be commended. In their first attempt, they successfully passed the test. Those nine who are signed under this interpolation, apparently today, have a retrial. Otherwise, I can't explain why there were only nine signatures. They probably have to take the correctional exam because they did not do their work in the first place as they had to. And the first-signed gentleman is probably doing an admission exam today, otherwise, I'm sorry, I can't explain it to myself. Otherwise, it would be very strange for a member who has problems with law enforcement authorities to file interpretations against the Minister of the Interior. For he was in great distress. I'd love to interpell the judge, but he can't. I'd love to intercede with the D.A., but he can't. I would be happy to intercede with all those who have denounced him, and neither can they. And that's why it's kind of logical that he's just going to interpret the interior minister and try to ease all of his traumatic pains that all of this is affecting him. And he will intertwine a minister, a minister who personalises the fight against such ones as the first one signed under the interpolation. What is the purpose of the interpolation, and what do we have here, why do we have this interpolation? I mentioned on Monday, we only have interpellation because someone is constantly trying to arouse this feeling that we are in an emergency. That we're in an emergency. And why he needs this feeling, because in an emergency, a criminal can become a hero. And that's why all legal and political means are allowed. The ancient Romans knew what the word Abusus non est sus, sed corruptela – Abuse is not use, but corruption. And what's happening today and what's happening back there is nothing more than mere abuse and corruption. But look, because this isn't even about interpolation, I'm going to say, in this reference we had some kind of interpolation that had some good reasons, or I'm going to say, it was right to debate it. These were, for example, cases of deleted or the fact that the bank was either destroyed or destroyed. These were topics worth discussing. And it's right to say what we think, and then decide whether the minister did wrong or right, and we did it, and then we made a decision. But look, it's not an interpolation today at all, but it's a confirmation, a confirmation of all the good work that the Minister has done in his mandate. The fight against corruption, the fight for transparency, the resolution of the decade in as a problem deleted and more. You know what confirmation means, don't you? This, according to the Dictionary of the Slovenian Book Language, means official confirmation, says official confirmation of good work, today it is happening. Why? Because if we had one weakness in his work, in the work of the minister, we'd name it in the interpretation. And you haven't found one. Not one. And that's why you've come up with some strange reasons that have nothing to do with interpolation and why this interpolation is an abuse. In the SDS, you think Minister Virant should leave his post. And I'm asking you something else. What criteria do you think? By whose standards? By your criteria or perhaps by someone else's criteria? Under the criteria of Minister Virant, you believe that. Well, nice to meet you. Perhaps Mr Virant has also written you the ethical code of your party, and you will probably know what your criteria are, which you have summarized according to it, which he has prepared for you, no, and which you are still following today. In short, the SDS party follows some criteria, please list them. Even though it may be from Minister Virant, these are the criteria. List them. Look, once upon a time, everyone judged by their own standards. These were the times of the barbarian hordes. But ever since then, the development of civilization, at least most of them, has gone a little further and there has been a convergence of criteria and appropriate institutions are needed for the verdicts. Of course, it is right and imperative that everyone has his own criteria to follow. And I'm asking you about these criteria. Tell them we'll know for a second time whether it's a legal charge, it's a simple charge, it's a legal conviction, it's a simple conviction. Where is the limit when someone can perform a public function and where this limit is exceeded? Say it. I asked Mr Tank this question on Monday, there was no answer, today I ask Mr Grimes. Tell me your criteria where this limit is. But look, here we are dealing with those who, like some other days, some days, when it was still somehow meaningful, I mean, when some went to Kumrovec and there and shouted, "I don't recognize this court!" That's what we're dealing with here. Now I really want to know what these criteria are, and please, if you can tell them. Otherwise, it's an interpolation against the minister. It is also an interpolation against the Civil Code. It is also an interpretation against the government led by Alenka Bratušek. But why are you interpreting us all? You're interpelling us because we're fighting corruption, even yesterday, there was, say, some action from this end, because we're fighting for transparency in the Public Information Access Act, and there's been a lot of damage to someone and now they're over there because they've solved the problem of deleted and not least because of the program followed by the Minister, the party's programme, the latest act of which is the opposition to VAT withdrawal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Pojbich applied to the replica earlier. Here you go. Were you misunderstood?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u112	Madam Vice President, thank you very much. Look at how exactly the fact that I said they have excellent candidates for ministers in the National Gazette, and then they have Gregor Virant as minister, who has demonstrated his abilities, his quality and everything we're talking about today. Mr Pavlišič, I think, excellent, a real minister would be, in my personal opinion, after what you have just said. Really, well done. You said today that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are doing everything we can to try to work in this country in a state of emergency. Mr. Pavlišič, please, you are an economist. And if you're an economist, which I think you are, you should know very well that we're in an emergency situation, that you brought this coalition and government before bankruptcy. 30 billion is in debt, 80% of GDP is in debt. And you're saying we're not in an emergency. And you're saying we're not in an emergency! Look, 130,000 unemployed. Isn't that an emergency for you? 500, 600,000 employees and so on. You said Mr. Minister was intertwined because he was fighting corruption. Mr. Pavlišič, trust me on something. Do you know when the real battle against corruption will be fought? Once these networks are torn apart, the networks that have been built since independence in this country. Then there will be a real battle against corruption. And when all subsystems and systems operate in the same way that it is necessary to start this corruption of persecution against everyone, it is fair that not one map will be placed in drawers and that the anti-corruption commission will do what its task does not politically persecute some citizens and citizens. Then we will have a real battle against corruption. And when we sit in this country and this National Assembly, people who believe that we are fighting for it and doing it. And finally, Mr. Pavlišič, if you can defend what your party president and Minister Virant have done with regard to the purchase of airline tickets, then believe that it is better and I think it is my fault if I did you before. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u113	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u114	If I mentioned you earlier that you could be a minister in this government instead of Virant. [[...]] I think I made a mistake. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sonja Ramshak has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u116	Thank you. I'll just be for a little while. Mr Pavlišič, I advise you to look at the magnetogram of what I have been saying about public administration. I didn't say it was a civil liability. I said that with rich experiences I know a lot of things about how it happens, and I did not mention in my words the Civil Code that it is responsible for the situation in public administration. However, I have said how political corruption is allowed. And you know where integrity is, there's no corruption. And corruption is what Mr. Greg Virant used to do with airline tickets. In fact, he brought someone else who was employed in Adria into corruption, and that's harmful. And any call from any member, minister or any other cabinet to hire someone or a suitable candidate, that's corruption, and that's the fall of integrity.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Even Mr. Franci Breznik wanted a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u118	Firstly, as regards the worlds concerning the pir of the performances of Members, in which is in fact one of the points of today's interpolation. Look, you can go to Mr. Jozet Tank, and I'll give you the contracts we worked with right away. I must admit that even the SDS Members had to sign in, a strict presence, at these sessions they did not even have the opportunity to enter in front of the cameras those with less experience. And look, that's the way it is. Another thing about cards. Look, this isn't about these subjective judgements in today's interpretation. The serious charges of lying to the public regarding the airline tickets that Mr Puksič gave in detail today, exactly e-mails, correspondence that I personally know, i.e. with former commercial director Mr Kostajski. Why didn't I call him or someone else I knew? Because that's not what you do. Because I'm a member of the National Assembly or I'm a minister. You have to pay and drive like other people, but if you want the luxury of "tribulation" at home, as we say in Lenart, then you have to pay for this luxury. That's what it is. Now look at the exact correspondence that happened on Adria; they sent me my colleagues from Adria, and I'll look at what I read. "The first thing about coffee in the department when the phones open was the alarmed call of Virant himself and not the secretary. He had a map for a tourist class in his hands, read it, he should be driving around in plain paradise. Vanja's employee explained to him that there is no room in the business class anymore and that she can't get room there. There was a real outbreak, an arrogant attack full of threats, in short, such communication by a regular staff member was on the verge of a nervous breakdown. The result, in time Kostanišek arrived and the matter was settled, someone was demolished, thrown into a lower class." That's the other part of the story. So not only does the cheap come through, this arrogance to a state-owned company, which was recapitalised by people for 80 million euros, in 2011 50 million. It's not a problem with these cards, it's not a problem with cards if we're taking them as a colleague, I don't know about Austria Airlines, or I don't know which airline that's not state-owned. That's not the problem. The problem is that the company is state owned. The problem is that people on the border – and I will not talk about social issues now – have to pay and recapitalise these companies over taxes. That's the problem. And then he comes in here, and that's past every subjectivity, that's healthy, and this man was thinking of himself as archangel Gabriel and pointing his fingers at my fellow Members sitting in here. And he showed who was right and who was inappropriate. And today I was talking, look, in my debate, about two points. I was talking about where this healthy mental limit is in European countries and where it is here. And the greatest evil about getting caught up in politics is that you took advantage of public goods with public money. This is the biggest breach, and if it goes like the German President for 700 euros, now it is guilt-washed, but for 700 euros, the German President had to step down. The difference between one map and Mr Virant was €700. You'll never convince me that in business class at Adria you can fly for less than a thousand euros at the most [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u119	Mr. Beznik, time for the replica has run out, so please, if you'll just make up your mind.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u120	Thank you and that's what we're talking about, and I can't see about it when you stand on some pedestal and learn integrity, honesty, I can't, either, because I think I have some mistakes, too, I can't, but then you really have to stand. [[…]] [[…]] And we have accepted these standards, Mr Virant, we have all adopted them in the end. And now look, and now we find that we have the greatest sinner between us. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u121	Thank you, Mr. Breznik. Mr. Beznik, your time is up. Will you finish it yourself?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u122	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u123	Thank you. Procedurally, Mr. Pavlišič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u124	Mr President, please organise individual education from what is a replica and what is not. In fact, he talked a lot about some airline tickets that I never mentioned in my performance, it was three interpolations back when I mentioned, yes, airline tickets, some 200 euros, there were flying somewhere in Scandinavia, but today I didn't talk about it, so it wasn't a replica. Secondly, I would gradually suggest that you can put an investment.com website on these screens showing that the current interest rate of the ten-year Slovenian bonds is 3.426%, which clearly shows that we are not in an emergency situation or in what Mr Pojbič has identified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u125	Thank you. The replica really needs to be careful. If someone thinks he was misunderstood, then of course he can follow the replica, or else it's not a replica, but probably a debate. The next debater is Mr Daniel Krivec. Here you go, Mr. Krivec, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u126	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. A nice greeting to all present, the minister is not at the moment, but a nice greeting to him as well. At the beginning of this session, Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek mentioned that this was the worst interpolation, the worst-prepared interpolation in all history, but she also spoke at Monday's interpolation, so she will have to decide which one is the worst. But in the case of Minister Pical, the Epilog has already shown that he has many holes and that he has quite a problem in defending things that have been read to him in interpretation. The past interpolations, which were then said to be unnecessary, irrelevant and so on, proved to be real or focused on real problems. Remember the appropriate Kresal and NPU, Mr Lukšič, where it was clearly shown that the Hives were problematic, and there was quite a return of money and so on. By suggesting to my colleagues that we wait until the vote, we will see what is going on with these interpolations. Minister Virant says, we undermine the reputation of the National Assembly, those who sign under interpretation and thus play the constitutional order, reduce the credibility of the National Assembly and make fun of citizens and citizens. I must say that I am signed under this interpolation, and I am still not making fun of anything, but even less that I would like to influence the non-creditability of the National Assembly or to violate any constitutional order. This could be asked by Minister Virant, who is reducing the credibility of the National Assembly. When he was chairman of the National Assembly, he did considerable moral damage to the National Assembly, especially the Members, in his statements, recklessly and uncoordinatedly with all other stakeholders in the National Assembly. So when we talk about who is undermining the integrity of the National Assembly, Minister Virant is the first on the tape as President of the National Assembly. Take a look at his statements to the media during a certain period of time when he purposely compressed the credibility of members of the National Assembly. Let us not turn to how he condemned certain Members who were only in the proceedings carried out by the media before the National Assembly before they were convicted in any way or were proven to be guilty of any kind. And in these cases, none of the Members was in a position to condemn anyone in the National Assembly, Minister Virant, at the time as President of the National Assembly, but he was allowed to judge individuals in the National Assembly. And he's still doing it. And the other thing that I signed this interpolation for is that it's really a lot of work, but it's also a lot of lying. And even when we prove lies, he commits himself, and even when we prove lies to other ministers of his own kind, he takes them into his defense and protects them, thereby proving his double morality. While writing an ethical code for civil servants, he also requires these officials to place the cards under his desk. This is the duality that has been demonstrated over and over again today, before this national assembly, he has not answered any questions; he has not been able to answer any obvious interpretation. He talked all the time about his kindness, his diligence, how he works with administrative units, how he prepares programs for changes in the field of local self-government, how to "spar" that country. That's all he explained. And I find it hard to trust a minister like that who's literally lying. And that's why I'm going to support the interpolation. The above mentioned was Truda Cinderella, and the speech was about a legal conviction. Yes, but, colleague Pavlišič, Mrs Truda Cinderella has made a mistake in her job, a mistake in some procedure. Mr Gregor Virant uses public servants in another state-owned society for his own purposes. If we compare this, I would gladly support Trudo Cinderella in the National Assembly, because I don't even know how convicted she is, but she made a mistake in the administrative procedure, and it was unintentional and not for her own benefit. Unfortunately, we all read them and the minister didn't deny them at any point, and I find it hard to trust them. First he says that every wife makes a deal, which he would almost believe, given that I hear that the wife in this family commands, then he turns out to be in contact with his friends by e-mail. I don't think anyone in this group would allow themselves to get tickets under the table like that, because these are cards under the table. Let's be realistic. He who deceives should take note of himself. Tickets are bought on "barriers", they're bought in some bureaux and so on, but not by some director of a sector that happens to be your friend. The one who thinks so will have to prove what's wrong with it. It has also been said that in some ways we are dishonest to those who have signed this petition or this request for interpretation. I have to say I don't consider myself unfair. This was said earlier by a fellow Kurnjek, in his debate, you can look at the magnetograms. I have to say that I signed consciously and with full consciousness. And I'll tell you again, as long as the Minister lies to me, like Minister Omerzel, when we proved to him in the process that he was an eclectic liar when we proved to him that he was lying to the boards, that he was lying in the National Assembly, that he was defending his interpretation, when he couldn't explain the difference between his company that made one statement, and the argument in the interpretation that was contradictory, and when Minister Virant covered it, then we really ask ourselves about the double criteria for everyone else. Even when talking about the appointment of chiefs of administrative units, the explanation given by the Ministry of the Interior speaks of the fact that the Minister of the Interior has assessed that it is appropriate to repeat the procedure in order to ensure the professional, political neutral, friendly and effective functioning of the Grossuplje administrative unit. Nowhere are we talking about illegality, what you want, and what the Minister is saying right now in the media, the Minister himself has vowed to resign if he turns out to have broken the law on air tickets, and I expect him to do so. Well, that's nice, but then ask the others to do the same. Even when they were appointed chiefs of administrative units, there was no violation of the law, all procedures were transparent. And don't talk about the double criteria, say that political recruitment is and we'll all be satisfied, not to worry about Gaspar Gaspar Misic, and on the other hand your colleague Jenko is not a problem. These are the double criteria that we're talking about all the time, and you can't deny it. Minister Virant said, "A beautiful union came after me." I don't have any problems, we can keep talking, but the minister obviously doesn't want to talk to us. Not even around other issues. And once again, even when he was president of the National Assembly, he did little harm to the National Assembly, for in every way he tried to reduce the credibility of the National Assembly as such, and this was a constant struggle. And I can't forgive him for that. Before that there was also a deception on his part, he talked about his colleague Vogrin that he was in 15, 20 procedures, he was in fact in 9. Here, too, is his legal wisdom or his doctorate. Someone with such a high title cannot afford to entangle himself in the National Assembly with such misinformation. Neither you, as Members, nor your colleagues, allow this to happen. He explained to us that his main concern to the public about bad loans, in the previous debate, the intention of the community association, was to explain, and he also said that those who signed it would want to give the police the reins. So, the minister equals the police. This statement of his is also of concern to me. At least I hope that the police act independently of who the minister is, but the Minister always equals himself and the police in his discussions. I strongly hope that the police are independent of Minister Virant, because otherwise I really wonder if these 10 signatories are still somehow safe from what they are doing. In order not to make a mistake, I myself have had a lot of work with the Commission to prevent corruption and I know how it works and how it works, and therefore I am even more convinced that, in the case of Minister Virant, she has not done her job, she has not looked at all the documents relating to the airline tickets, and not all the procedures have been transparent. However, when it comes to the table at the interpellation and colleague Vogrin shows a contract showing further links within the Commission to prevent corruption and the minister, there is even more reason to worry and fear that the Minister will again be able to lie to us in the next step, because he has not so far given a correct answer to any claim. Whenever it's problematic, he gets up and goes out of the hall, just like he did at the first interview. Earlier it was said that colleague Tonin had asked him some nice questions. I believe, and even then, at the first interview, he asked him nice questions and talked to Mr. Tonin in the hallway. Of course, that's why Tonin didn't ask the question of airline tickets at that interview. They are now on the wallpaper, because earlier Mr Tonin had said one fact that the one who is blameless should first throw the stone. We also know another word in this Slovenia that a lie has short legs. And the minister has proven this several times, and it is therefore right to leave his post.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u127	Thank you. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the word and the mag is ready. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go, Mr. Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Well, in my speech, I don't intend to repeat over and over again what my colleagues are already before me, those mistakes that were written in interpretation, and argue because it is obvious to me that there are double criteria for Minister Virant. At the time he was President of Parliament, he always stressed zero tolerance for officials themselves. His decisions, as soon as the KPK decided on the case of Janez Janša and Zoran Jankovic, were immediately understood that they both had to resign in all functions before anything was proven. However, in the case of his Minister Omarzel, let us wait until he is charged with a legal charge, but he is innocent. Why such criteria? Today we have also seen here a series of things of connection between the KPK and the parties of the National List. At the time, I was surprised to learn how the then Minister Virant, of the KPK, first learned about the information, today I am not surprised by the information I have heard today, since it is likely that he was even familiar with the work of the KPK. However, I do have comments on his work as minister, particularly as regards local self-government, because it has already been said here by colleagues that it seems that his client and his activities range from administrative up and down nothing. Although he's in charge of local government. All the laws that charged local self-government: property tax, then cadastral income, the Law on the Financing of Communities, the Law on Local Self-Government His work went in the direction of making local self-government difficult, even though he should be a minister or minister who should defend local self-government before other state authorities. It is also now in the procedure, in the government procedure, the law which interferes with local self-government, with the mayors' withdrawal, the non-professional function of mayors up to 5,000 inhabitants and so on. All in such a direction as with the third local government, from the abolition of municipalities, so vehemently enough, "I have the agreement of all coalition parties that we will reduce the number of municipalities for this year's elections." Obviously, he has not read the European Charter of Local Self-Government and our Constitution, because without a referendum, it is impossible to abolish municipalities. But he, we're going to save 200 million, just like that, which was a big lie, we're going to shut down the congregations, and in the end, there was none of that, just a lot of media attention. Even during the European basketball championship, this was the most interesting. And what do I have in the local government? The municipality can guarantee its tasks if it has 5,000 inhabitants. Do you understand what 5,000 people are? As you might say, it is only a Member who is at least seven hundred feet tall. Because that's what the law says. And in the last amendment to the Law on Local Self-Government, we've thrown all the conditions out. The municipality can be one city district, which has five, ten blocks of 5,000 inhabitants, has no health home, no primary school, no stuff. It's our Law on Local Self-Government. Now the mayors are supposed to be the mayors of non-professionals up to 5,000 people. That's according to the complexity of the job, or if you want to be a good mayor, you have to work more than eight hours a day if you want to do something. Besides, now that the money's getting smaller. And now they can be mayors, probably those on the labour market. And he'll be a non-professional mayor and unemployed. Because he can't be a professional mayor. Because it is likely that others will not come forward under conditions such as the elections now. And what do we get? What is the goal? Get some servants who are incompetent for every job, but the mayors will be able to. Depending on the salary, given all the conditions for the performance of this function. On the other hand, the European Charter on Local Self-Government says that democracy in Europe is at the heart of local self-government. What did we make out of her? It's like local self-government is the last servant. However, the local self-government has original tasks to perform, namely public economic services, water supply, waste water separation and treatment, waste management, maintenance and construction of municipal roads. How? The state imposes new and new tasks. The catalog of jurisdiction of the municipality is eight centimeters of paper. A huge warrant. And it's supposed to be done in Virant's hands by someone who's not for any other job. You've got to be kidding me! And Mr. Virant also from local government. It is likely that in a few months there will be a prize in the local elections for the National List as well. Besides, we have administrative units. 13 candidates in parliamentary elections were candidates for chiefs of administrative units who ran not only in one or one constituency but more. It's the Civil Code database. Tell me, where in the European Union do they have administrative units? Where? Mr Virant sold this policy in Macedonia. Why didn't he go to Brussels to sell administrative units? Europe knows the first level, the second level, the third level of local self-government. At our second level, there is no way that we can get together because it does not suit anyone, because the leaders or presidents of the provinces would be too strong for a policy as we have today in the government and also in Parliament in positions. The European Union is obviously only interested in the European Member's position, which is well paid, five times as much as the Member of the National Assembly. Otherwise, we would just forget about the European Union. So I don't see Minister Virant doing this job well, by no means, he goes headlong into some changes in legislation, like they're primary school tasks that everyone can swallow. That's how we play with the country. I believe that this country will have to be built from the bottom up for once, not to go from the top to the bottom, to increase penalties, obligations, tasks, without the provision of funds. What is now done with taxes, with laws, is already seen. In our wine-growing areas, people cut vineyards, probably Mr Virant, when he walked through Macedonia, could look at the mountains, how they were abandoned, how everything went down in Macedonia, and it was 20, 30 years ago, just like in Slovenia. We're on the same path. Nobody thinks about little people. The foundation cell of the company is family, the next is local self-government. All that matters to us is the summit, the state administration, which has become rich. What did Mr Virant do to reduce public sector employees? 2% have decreased – in how many years? In five or how many years. In the administrative unit, the tasks of administrative units – we have references to the sale of agricultural land. There are about 500 of them in Slovenia. Traffic with agricultural land is decreasing, we have agencies with licences that could do this, 500 jobs surplus in administrative units. The driver’s license affair — did she get any epilogues? But administrative units are nothing to blame for this, because it forgets and moves on. Therefore, I cannot support the Minister further and will support this interpretation, because I do not think he has justified his task, nor does the public research also show, because the party also has such a rating that people no longer trust this party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u129	Thank you. Mr Richard Braniselj has the floor and Mr Tomaž Lisec is preparing. Here you go, Mr. Braniselle.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u130	Thank you very much. There's not much time left, but I'm going to try to be very fickle. We talked about some contracts here, and now I think it would be too little time for us to discuss these treaties in depth. As it is said, these contracts have been dealt with by a number of institutions and let them determine whether these contracts are actually perfect or not. However, the work was done, the work was ordered properly, rationally, the payment was made and the work was fully carried out. About the cards. In fact, we now have one ideal opportunity to go on about airline tickets and all the other things that concern irregularities or suspected irregularities, in state-owned companies after the adoption of the Public Information Access Act, we practically walk to Adrié Airways and pull all the cards out and see what you find there. I'm afraid a lot of people will find themselves, but about those who are interested in seeing it, I think they'll be interested in the press, and I'll be happy to see what falls out there. It's a propiar deal. Look, the contract is worth a good 3,000 euros. A good 3,000 euros. I don't know where you got the documentation, but I'm surprised that documentation comes in a number of times that you have access to all the possible documentation relating to the Parliamentary Group Civil List, but we're working transparently, we don't have these problems. We can also make all contracts publicly available. As it is said, the contract is heavy for a good 3,000, it is a pear service that has been fully performed. We have selected the contractor in the parliamentary group on the basis of the call for tenders. He was the cheapest, and he had the best references. And believe me, the service was done. We didn't choose the contractor after who's related, who's in the background, who's the owner, who's the owner, and so on, who's dating, and who's somebody's extra-marital partner, they still don't match names. So I reject any insinuation that these contracts were wrong. I'm behind these contracts. And once again, these contracts are correct and correct.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u131	Thank you. Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor, Mr Franz Jurša is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u132	Thank you, President, for your word. We are talking about a minister whose words are mostly high ethical standards, the fight against corruption. For starters, you may allow us to prove his duality both in words and in action through his words. In the case of Ivan Simčič, Mr Gregor Virant said, "Everyone is considered innocent until proven otherwise." Interestingly, before the KPC report on Mr Janša and Mr Jankovic came to the public, Mr Virant has already accused and condemned both. And at that time it probably not only started, it probably continued the story, which we call the link between the Interior Minister and the Anti-Corruption Commission, or between its main people, Mr Klemenčič and Mr Praprotnik. Then I proceed, in the case of Mr Ivan Vogrin. Mr Ivan Vogrin, from this place of sincere congratulations, you have exposed yourself, exposed the minister and exposed all the links between the Slovenian economy, the judiciary, the banking system and probably someone else I have released. At that time, Mr Gregor Virant said, "Colleague Vogrin has burdened his colleagues and the entire party with his controversial business relations." We could write down, Minister Virant charged his client and his colleagues with his controversial business relations. Nothing should have happened with Minister Virant, and Mr Vogrin is sitting, as he himself said, "like a 13th pig", although sometimes very well debated. And Mr Minister continues: "I am firmly convinced that the Member of the National Assembly must have cleared personal and business accounts. Otherwise, he doesn't deserve those functions." And I ask the Minister, who is vengeful today, Mr Virant or Mr Vogrin? "Messenger," probably the same for the minister, "must have cleared personal and business accounts." So much has been said about airline tickets today, and Minister Gregor has nothing. Perhaps for all of us a rhetorical question, but especially for our fellow citizens. If the members of the National Gazette had known or had seen a picture of Mr. Gregor Virant before, would they have set up a party with him and installed him as President? Perhaps the easiest way to answer this question would be by Mr Štích, Pavliha, Šuštersič, Pedro, and today Mr Vogrin, as a carrier, said the most about this case. And here we go with Truda Cinderella. Mrs Cinderella has set herself the highest possible ethical standard that must be in force in politics and has decided to withdraw from politics because of a small error. But Minister Gregor's nothing. Moreover, Mr Virant said: "Because ethics is the foundation of all values, decision-making and responsibility in the Civil Code, Mrs Pepelnikov has decided that she does not wish to continue her work in the National Assembly under the burden of the judgment given." In the Civil Code, ethics lays the foundations of all values, decisions and responsibilities. But Minister Gregor's nothing. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Gregor Virant has only one luck, which is that the self-preservation instinct of this government will keep him in political life, even though it is obvious that colleagues and colleagues from the Positive Slovenia Group will bite their lips all the way to the vote today, and probably even during the vote. Perhaps before I continued with the content, when we were preparing the so-called other Janša government in 2011, one prominent official of Positive Slovenia laughed at the coffee and said, "You've got Virant, but now you'll see." One year later, we saw what happened. And apparently the story repeats itself to this coalition. The millstone is obviously for this coalition, but the name is the same. Too many interpretations. Respectable colleagues from the entire coalition, given what the ministers of this government are doing, could be on the agenda of this national assembly weekly. We can't even follow them, there's so much nonsense, but that's excusable. Whoever's working is wrong. But the fact that things are going beyond the law is that the unconstitutional situation is caused by the personal exploitation of his position, Minister Virant here also nothing. We do not see Mr Cuffer at all, Mr Stepišnik is the only victim so far when he gave his political influence or pawned it for his company, and instead he is now sitting on this side. There's not much movement, but there's only one thing. Look, Minister Virant, after throwing a stone at former Minister Stepišnik among the first, with his Minister Omerzel and with him, it's quiet. Double mirror, not just double morality. In short, what I want to show you. While Minister Virant has been saying for some years, it has been said for ten years that he co-creates the Slovenian political scene, speaks high ethical standards, fights corruption, and stings with his left hand to all those who miss, but we do not see that his right hand is held in a glass of marmalade and pushes down his guilt, which is by no means willing to show. I have to say that, in fact, Minister Virant will regret it once, when this current coalition decides to reject him, it is likely that only then will there be a number of secrets that are still missing today, probably not even the stories, but probably will. I think that this matter of airline tickets, which we have already tried indirectly to prove to Minister Virant in the first interpretation we have submitted, and then we have not received any answers, and apparently the answers, at least as successfully as possible, have begun to be sought by journalists. For once, if we have failed politicians, Members of Parliament, we succeed in the media. I'm always critical of the media, but if they expose a political clientele to the truth, I'll give them a hat. I must say, ever since this famous story has been established by the KPK, Gregor Virant has always appeared somewhere. Earlier, Mr Jože Tanko, Head of the SDS Group, said a few sentences, some questions, and Minister Gregor Virant said nothing. I am really interested in not only the official connections of these people, but obviously the family. I'm not going to let go of how individuals have their home arranged, where the wife's boss is, where the husband's boss is, where they're both equal, but obviously the stitches reach not only business, but family. In addition to the anti-corruption commission, Gregor Virant has another standing – administrative units. I myself remember when I was an expert member of the parliamentary group, in the so-called first Janša government, when a broad debate opened within the coalition about the provinces, what and how they were, there was almost agreement, there was not so much debate, or 3 or 6, 8, 12, the biggest debate within the coalition was, what and how with the administrative units. And here the fighter has proven himself, for the administrative units, the current minister, Mr. Gregor Virant. Now we know what these units were for. They were apparently used to raise personnel for political functions. When I examined the list of candidates for the National List, with all due respect to my colleague Kristina, who I think is one of the better members of the National Assembly, but when I looked at a few CVs of candidates and candidates, which rattles at various employees of various administrative units, which is understandable. Since 2000, Gregor Virant has had a continuing influence on administrative units. Maybe I'll be a little more personal. When we started preparing for the 2011 National Elections, I myself served as the SDS Programme Secretary and therefore I know what Gregor Virant took from the SDS programme, and I know who and how he addressed who were at least close to the SDS, or any other spring functions. He had a whole range of potential candidates in his family. And as you know, probably every party has, at least local elections or national elections, in every congregation or in every constituency, at least two candidates, maybe even three good candidates are found. And then, in the last few weeks, Minister Virant, when it was already within the SDS party, knew who would be the candidate for an MP and who wouldn't, also made a phone call to people who fell out of the first round of possible candidates. Believe me, there's evidence in my constituency as well. Minister Virant probably – I agree with Mr Krivec – he is doing a lot of work, but he is making a lot of mistakes, and unfortunately he is also lying. I believe that public research means a lot to him and that sometimes it follows what public polls show. But the devil is that if some public research, for example in a medium, shows a diametric picture like in another medium, then Minister Virant is facing a great dilemma to believe. And when it looks at what to do, it prepares various laws that destroy the parties on the one hand, on the other hand, for the fight against the grey economy and against corruption destroys sport, culture, because state-owned companies will shut down their tentacles, just as the tentacles closed down to political parties, attacking the municipality, despite being a municipal councillor himself, and should be aware of what local self-government means while we still have it in the National Assembly. True, but if I didn't expect anything from a fellow Virant, I didn't expect an attack on local government. Someone who has worked for some time in local government should know or realize that local self-government is the very essence of our country. I think that the most successful Members are those who have ever been at least municipal councillors, mayors, perhaps even members of local communities or of the fourth communities, whatever you tell them, because they know what is going on in practice. A Member, with all due respect, because I hope that I have not offended anyone who has previously had no contact with the local area, his work in the National Assembly is much more difficult because he does not even know what is social, what is health, what is sport, what is left of it, unless it is possible from his professional structure or educational structure to this area. However, work in local self - government is as wide as work in public service or in the National Assembly. In short, to conclude, Minister Virant is unfortunately another one of those politicians who speak one and the other are working and squandering others, and they never set up this mirror for themselves and have zero tolerance for everyone, and they are totally tolerant of their actions. All the obvious, including those who are today in interpolation, political recruitment, customerism, as a result corruption, double criteria, answers with silence or point to those who hope for anything. In short, I do not think there will be a ten-hour fruitless debate today. Personally, it was infertile for me to see that in a second, the coalition MPs threw 2.2 million into the "luft" because of a referendum, that was infertile. Ten hours of debate on corruption and customerism, although it is one person, is by no means infertile. In short, Minister Virant, with all due respect to you as a person, but I think it's time for you to leave your post as a politician. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u133	Thank you. Mr Franz Jurša has the floor and the Mag is ready. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u134	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. After nine hours of discussion, I think it's very difficult to say something new and smart. However, I would like to take advantage of this brief debate and be quite objective. To begin with, there is one common point between the one you're interpolating and the one you've signed this interpolation. That you know each other very well, and, of course, because of this, also Minister Gregor Virant, you attack strongly under the terms. He was with you for several years in the government, and, of course, with Mr. Virant in one party. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] With Vogrin, yes. And there's something else about interpolation in general. You know, when we were together in the right-centre government, we were lucky to have a group on this side of the delegation and a client who didn't have so much experience at the beginning and wrote only one interpretation if memory doesn't fool me. And that made that government in a way easier. However, this government is more difficult because colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party have a lot of experience in this area, you are interpreting, calling extraordinary meetings and this government, and this coalition actually has to deal with these proposals for interpretations as well as, of course, extraordinary meetings. Well, something in the community; Minister Virant proposed some changes in local self-government. And if we're to be honest and put our hands on our hearts, we need a reorganization in this area. Now what this reorganisation is supposed to be, and this is a question of a common debate and a common position, and then of course also of course of the legislation that we must drive through the National Assembly. For the time being, Gregor Virant has not abolished the municipalities and also in this new bill, the amendment does not propose the abolition of municipalities, but proposes something that would in any case be useful for citizens, citizens, in fact citizens and citizens in local communities to call off their mayor if he does not work in the interest of the development of municipalities, it is in the interest of citizens and citizens. Now just for a little while. Dear Mr Ivo Vogrin, you did not write the interpretation well, is not well-founded. You could probably write it better, because you probably tried, but this is your first experience in this area, you'll probably write the second one better, and you'll reason it better, that even in the coalition, we can think about solving some of our ministers then. You know, when I listen to these discussions – I said I want to be objective – I estimate that this is mutual cleansing or I will say sports, pure sports, resentment from the past. For what we know with Mr Vogrin, we know for what reason also with the Slovenian Democratic Party. Now, I would like to say something here that the Minister will not agree with most. Mr. Secretary, there's a thought that says too quickly. If I knew the consequences, I probably wouldn't say something like that at the time, but that doesn't mean Mr. Gregor Virant is a bad minister. This is now a second interpolation, due to what I just said. I'm sure as I stand here, you have a third interpolation ready. You've already talked about this today, and even on the first one, it's about airline tickets. That's not what this is about. It is said that you will also be forced to write this interpretation if you wish to report to him what you think belongs to him. It is true that the Minister speaks of high ethical standards. It would be good for everyone to meet my standards. And it is probably the biggest problem for some to manifest themselves to those who may not have made such a mistake that they should also sit in the third bench. Now I would like to touch the relief of God the Speaker and Moses the Kucler the Dolinar. Look, I don't know anyone personally, but I have to say that God's Predator-General of the Government and, as far as I know about his work as well as the Dollinary's, I could say that we could probably both be chiefs in Grouplje and Ljubljana, but one thing really happened too quickly. Comrade Horvat Joža, you know this appointment was not carried out by the Minister of the Civil Service List, this appointment was carried out by the Deputy Minister of the Slovenian Democratic Party, and that seven, eight months earlier, is a small problem. Come on, I'll say it again, hand to heart, that you were in here too soon, and that you were just trying to make the last human resources rustic. Suspicion of criminal services and the introduction of systemic corruption. This is one of the chapters where you speak – I think this is the first chapter of your interpretation – about Jank Jenk as the Executive Director of the Party of the Civil Gazette and the Supervisor in the Slovenian Steel Industry. Political personnel. What Minister Virant explained in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners is enough for me to know that Minister Virant has made no mistake in this area has not acted corruptly. And of course, in the end, because I said I'd be brief, I'll say that. In my own opinion, the democratic party of pensioners was a good coalition partner in most governments, despite the fact that we have repeatedly said, if it does, too much to go to pensions to then leave the government. The coalition partner in the previous government has been corrected, and in this way we want to be in this government that we are now in. That is why, personally, my colleagues and my colleague will not support this interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u135	Thank you. There's a Master Branko Grimes. Then get ready, then, Minister. Here you go, Mr. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u136	Yeah, good-bye again! Now the key defences against this interpolation have actually been carried out today in accordance with that Murphy Law of Political Defence, which means If you are being spoken against by the procedure, refer to the facts, if the facts are speaking against you, refer to the procedure, if both the procedure and the facts are speaking against you, and then just scream at the whole voice. In this context, it is necessary to understand the statement made by the President of the Government, who has come and said that he estimates that this interpretation is contrary to, quote, 'normalisation of political space'. Now, what is normalisation of political space could be debated. But if we know that Slovenia's debt has reached EUR 28.8 billion during this period, which is now twice as much as the debt of the whole of Yugoslavia once, and the population is headed by EUR 14 000, or every family, four-member, for example, EUR 56 000, then of course it is a very awkward thing, if Madam President of the Government is talking about "the normalisation of the political space" because it would obviously be most normal for such a government to go to the historical dump immediately. What is also a particular problem here is that today we can also see this as an attempt to overturn this interpolation, which is obviously justifiable, otherwise it would be counterproductive to argue that today the Prime Minister announced that she would go to Parliament for a confidence, and of course this was the central news. However, what is even more interesting and precisely in the context of this interpretation was the Minister's statements, if he is withdrawn from the support of the largest parliamentary group, which, of course, belongs to the President of the Government, then this will have serious consequences. This, of course, testifies to the fact that this government is aware that it is extremely unsuccessful, that it is intertwined, ineffective, and that, of course, it is already at odds with one another, with regard to future elections, when it does not know how those in it would go to a distance on their own. And that is why today, too, this debate takes place in this way. This is bad for Slovenia. If you are responsible, let us leave the decision to the electorate alone, go to the elections and set up a normal government which will be European comparable and which will be able to do its job, capable of taking the Slovenian economy into a serious development cycle in the coming period and not only to hang new and new taxes on entrepreneurs and on all citizens and citizens. This is what Slovenia needs, and it is your responsibility to make it possible. One small step can be taken today to express a mistrust to at least one of the ministers. An even greater step can be taken in the coming days. What's the problem is that you're obviously just being accompanied by spending money for future generations, because you're no longer able to deal with each other. This is sad for Slovenia, and this is something that this country and no country in the world deserves. Slovenia needs a government that will not come to Parliament where the President of the Government will not come to Parliament and say that she is responsible for showing some signs of recovery in the economy, while we have experienced a fall since the whole European Union has experienced economic growth and it is now clear that we are bound to export to some of the most successful economies, particularly Germany, we are starting to draw a little bit from that extreme bottom where we have already sunk. But this is not thanks to this government, this is proof that we have a capable, excellent entrepreneurship, a European comparable, that despite such a government has started to succeed, despite the burdens you have placed on them, it has begun to bring about success. That's the point. And it's similar to today's interpolation. There's also talk about how successful the police were, of course, there was some kind of action for the pirates yesterday. Every time an interpolation occurs, something like this happens the day or the day before. This, of course, only means that the work of the police is obviously politically affected, which is contrary to what it should be. But I would still agree with the minister on one point when he said we had a highly professional and capable police force. We can all be very happy about this. But this is not because we would have such a minister, but even though we have such a minister, because obviously this organization is so professional that it cannot be completely damaged in a short period of time. Therefore, the entire common point of the statements made by the Minister and the President of the Government is in one simple fact. Do not offer yourself as a solution, you are not the solution, you are the essence of the problem facing Slovenia today. Some very interesting words fell into the defense. This too, of course, goes in the context of what I said earlier, screaming or shouting out loud. Mr. Virant has been declared a "tragic hero" by you. Now, see, we could read in the newspapers during this period that more than 60,000 euros received compensation as a former minister, this is related to the ministerial function, and at the same time earned 95 000 euros there, according to some figures even more, in the same period. And it's a compensation that's designed to help someone who can't make a living. And that's clearly an abuse of some kind of right. It's obvious abuse. You can even read the debates of constitutional lawyers which have already been published on this subject during this period. On the other hand, we were able to read a statement by the minister, the current minister, that he had nothing to do with buying airline tickets, but then they were only a few weeks ago, and this is a new fact, published documents showing, of course, that he was still engaged in these things and that he was fully placed on that field, which is called the untruth. That's a bigger problem. And it's also an obvious abuse, an obvious abuse of some right that probably comes from political and other relationships, but at a time when you're defending it when you're in a position, it also affects your function. This is said to be relevant to the confidential question alone. This is also what some of the coalition, including one of the members of Positive Slovenia, have specifically said that you view this as a purely ordinary lie and that this should not happen. I leave the judgment to you and the public, but the fact is that this is an obvious abuse of some rights that ordinary citizens are not available to. Now, I'm going to quote another member of the Civil Code, who said, quote, "through abuse, corruption." I agree with you in this context, sir. I would also add that it is the other way around: corruption is the source of abuse. We can also do it the other way around, this simple philosophical analysis very clearly shows. We both agree here. And that's why it's a problem. Some of you said, "Mr. Minister is doing his job well." You know, this is now very relative to how you look at it, but I think that the whole government and, of course, it's a minister then it's a river that was considered to be that legendary 16th century abbot in Paris when he was written as an epitaph. This would roughly be in line with this tax policy and with everything that we have already discussed at this meeting today, which I think is very useful for that part of the opposition's constitutional task, which is called a control function. This has proved to be a number of other things, such as new information, which is certainly very enlightened for all in the light of the current situation, when the Minister is in his office and is, of course, responsible for the work of the government, and also more so as the President of the political party, as he is certainly directly involved in the negotiations, including the human resources negotiations, which have already been held by the Deputy President of the KPK, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, which was just like the FDV diplomat, the Faculty of Social Sciences, namely, the non-economic expert on finance, placed in the lead position of the Bank of New Ljubljana, which this coalition and this government previously rehabiliated with taxpayers' money. At the same time, if we look at what turned out to be here today, that it was this particular party, specifically their parliamentary group, that the partner of the same person was doing certain services and that is why she received quite a payment. During the same period and in the same term. This is a rather awkward matter, and I hope that at least we will all agree on it. It doesn't matter who signed that contract. I believe that the person empowered to do so is indeed the leader of the parliamentary group. But the point is, as far as I know, in this particular mandate, this same official was involved in overseeing the financial situation of the political party's president. That's a pretty awkward thing to do. And if, in the end, at a time when this same political party president is a minister, this same person becomes one of the leading people in the New Ljubljana Bank, without having any relevant qualifications and work experience, then, excuse me, I wonder if we will use the same time to say that this is the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption or the Commission for the Practice of Corruption. However, I did not say that this was the institution's fault, but obviously it was a combination of the wrong people in the wrong places, those who were in the past leadership of the KPK, and those who were at the moment in the position of the government and who could actually influence. For, to say that the government has no influence on human resources policy in the Ljubljana Bank is purely sedition, we all know that. If we go further, see, the question of today’s confidant is already – as we could read on the websites – the minister himself has tied to the issue of the existence of this coalition. This means that he did not act stately in this context as represented by the current coalition. He has always been what he looks like, according to his actions, what was said on television in the politics of the new metal. He will always find a variant that will benefit him. And the problem with this minister is that he's always saying one thing and he's doing the opposite of what you've all found. You've been discussing here today how, say, he's written off some of them in a vehement manner, in public and in action, because it was brought against them, say, a legal charge, but he's been putting others in the same position, because there's also been a charge against them, in positions during this period. This is a rather awkward matter, and I hope we all agree on it. And if I add to this the fate of a member of his own party, Mrs Trude Cinderella, he himself said that every official, I quote, "must have settled his accounts". Ask yourself whether what has been exposed in recent weeks, including in Slovenian media, corresponds to these words, that, according to the same minister, it is not appropriate for him to perform his function. He's not worth it. But here's the question of double criteria. When you said earlier, by what standards, by what the Minister himself sets, but expects them from everyone else when it comes to him, he does not draw the right sequences. Where, though, is guidance based on an example that should be the basis for any action in politics, according to his own words? Then he should be the first one to step down. It's still time for him to do it. It is also time that if you do not do so in the coalition to gather your strength, and that you do not at least assume his responsibility, because it is very good from the debate today that you realize that if you defend him today, even if you hide or disappear and are not in the vote, you have actually done nothing, because today counts only 46 votes, in fact, as a concrete effect. In any case, however, the political message will be very clear, any vote. And it will certainly affect further political development, which is why today's vote and this interpretation is very important. You're very well aware. It was also obvious from your own discussions that it was a policy that could not be trusted because it has changed away whenever it came to its benefit. We call this a domestic betrayal of the one who helped him before that, trusted him. And trust given out, you know, is the most embarrassing thing that is. We could tell quite a few stories about this, which goes beyond the scope of today's interpolation. You're aware of that, too. In fact, this has already been announced in his own words when he linked the issue of his confidant with the existence of this coalition and with the confidence of the Prime Minister of the Government, which you can read on the websites. Very instructive reading. The hint is more than clear. You know, from this comes the simple fact that if someone specialises in speaking one and doing the opposite, this is exactly the opposite, Minister Virant. And that even for him, and especially for him, is that Murphy's law that whatever they say to you in politics, and if they're still so high up about ethics, they have to, always talk to you about money, about their money. That's what's really the problem. The question is whether someone says it honestly and keeps his word, or is he being played all the time. And when the moment of truth comes, when things lie, when documents are published, then suddenly there are no more standards, all those high-pitched words that were present. I ask you publicly, but most of all, Mr. Minister, where are those words now about ethics, about ethical rules for officials, about the values that we have always heard from Mr. Virant, and which he, at the time of his ministerial position, has specifically put at the forefront of his programme presented in the National Assembly? Where is this strong ethics and morality now? At the moment when we should materialize in his own resignation, at that moment, ethics and morals are over. And if today's minister is not resolved, you will allow those who vote to remain in office to take on this part of the responsibility. Then it will rightly be said that in this part it is in fact an excellent identification of the actions and interests of the whole government. Think about it. In the SDS Group, I assure you, we will vote unitedly in favour of its resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u137	Thank you. Well, Dr. Gregor Virant has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u138	Yes, thank you very much. If I get this right, it's like a final word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u139	That's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u140	As I expected at the outset, I think today was a major waste of time in the National Assembly, a time that could be spent dealing with the serious problems of this country that could be used to find solutions to the problems we have. I have to say, when I was aware of this interpretation, it was the end of February, and when I saw how it was actually materially empty, I asked myself which bunny would be pulled out of the hat. Then, of course, a bunny fell out of the hat in the form of a newspaper article in the journal, which speaks of some of my private e-mails from 2010, when I was a purely ordinary citizen, so I was neither a minister nor an MP, nor any other function, but I was a purely ordinary citizen. How private mail comes into the media, I don't understand. This question should also be asked by someone, but of course it is not that important today. Everything about these infamous airline tickets, as I've already said today, some people hang their buckets when they want to get rid of them and others' cards. I have made everything very clear to the Commission in order to prevent corruption. I didn't say anything about how I ordered, how I bought tickets, and I never told the board or the public that I didn't order these cards, even often, I said how, with whom I communicated, I asked the commission whether I would give her correspondence, and the commission said she wanted correspondence for two private years, the only two private years of 2008, when I was a minister. On the question of whether they wanted a later correspondence, they said no. So, I gave it everything that it was. Those who believe that I have deceived KPK can read an interview with Mr Klemenčič, which was published in the previous Saturday's annex to the Evening, where Mr Klemenčič made it very clear that on the basis of what has also been found afterwards or what they later saw, in the Dnevnik newspaper, there are no indications that he is misleading the Commission. I told the committee everything that was and how it was. I doubt that any of you have read the Commission's report on anti-corruption, because the essence of this report is that in Adria Airways for decades, since 1980 or 1981, a system of decision-making on prices or awarding discounts has been established, which was not ok, which was untransparent, which was arbitrary, as they wrote, and so on. This is how they've issued thousands of discount cards. And I really don't know how the buyers of these cards, so those who were or were on the other side, could be blamed, responsible for these discounts. Look, I didn't lie to the board or to the public or cheat. I have argued and continue to argue that I was not responsible and did not influence price fixing in Adria Airways and that I never expected or demanded any special discounts for myself. I got the tickets through a certain contact order, got the price and paid. And even the prices I was getting, none of them were so low that it seemed particularly strange to me. If you go to Adria's website today, you will find an action offering 17 destinations after €39, my airline tickets were mostly 150 euros, with me flying with Adrio Airways in 2009-2011 when I was a private, not a minister, not an MP, not a private minister, and a private, very much flying with Adrio Airways, I was doing a lot of work in the Balkans. Given the number of these flights, and given how many miles I've come across, I'd find some kind of commercial discount even quite logical. Sometimes it seemed a little too expensive, like when I was driving to Sarajevo, it would be better for me to drive sometimes with a car than with a plane. But the bunny had to get out of the hat, because the problem is that since we went to the elections with the National List, from that moment on, I've been under the X-ray, especially the SDS X-ray. And if the most you can find is buying tickets with a discount, then obviously there's not much wrong with me. Two of the only things I've been told so far, the first was the replacement, and the second was those cards. Both cases have been dealt with by the Commission in order to prevent corruption. The first was at the time of Drago Kos, when Drago Kos was president, but no one could say that Drago Kos was one of my fans or a friend, and he even marketed me in court and lost me, and the Commission found that there was nothing wrong with my compensation. Black on white. So I have, unlike many others, the only things I had, were, I'd say, black on white confirmed that everything was fine. Same for airline tickets. KPK was logically interested in what happened during the management of my function, had nothing to do with the years when I was a regular private person, so she was interested in the summers of 2008, which were two private years, and that's all. And that was really my wife's job. It doesn't even matter if I did it. What's really important is what's very well written in the Commission's report, the problem is that in Adria Airways there's an untransparent setting of discounts. They will probably say that all airlines are doing so, I agree with the Commission's report, given that these are state-owned companies, this should be transparent and better arranged, but it is probably not possible to attribute this to the buyers, to those who have received these tickets or bought them. I'm going back to that starting point, to the starting point, which shows that we're in the wrong world, that I actually feel like I'm in some kind of wrong world. If I were to be intertwined, but I would never have seen it, I would not have even talked about it if, as the first to sign under the interpolation, Mr Vogrin, someone who has, today, counted, that is, nine criminal proceedings. They took a little look at the MVK records in the Group of Members and told me that there were between fifteen and twenty of them. Okay, if you say there's nine of them, it'll probably hold. But the man who is in nine criminal proceedings reads the levite menu, which I have in the only two cases that you've given me in all these years when I've gone so mad at you, would say you got black on white, that everything is fine with the Commission to prevent corruption. In some kind of procedure, police or criminal or something like that, look at me from a distance, and I'm not going to, because I don't have anything like that. And look, since we went to the elections, since I announced that we were going to the elections in 2011 with the Civil List, it's been happening to me. First they started to circulate anonyms, the moments when someone, someone — who do you think?—found out that we were going with our client to the elections, the next day she was anonymous, I don't know where, in the Fire Report, or she started circulating some sick stuff by email. And so on and so forth and it happens all the time. Look, the thorn in the heel – not just me, but the National Sheet. Since you need to know one thing, you can still get rid of me, I have strong nerves, I have a stomach, if I can borrow the Istok of Milk, like the rastfrei, so you won't get me nervous, even if you get tired of a nice day and say, but now I have a really full suitcase of it, here is a party of the Civil List, which is not only bound to its President, but lives its own independent, liberal life, which has taken the central political place in Slovenia and has an excellent perspective. Although I'd give anything to make it not so and now you'll laugh and so on and so forth, but look, it's a party to the future. Yeah, I'm optimistic, I have reason to be optimistic. With or without me, the National List is a party to the future. So, as far as this big, major sin of mine is concerned, it's called a plane ticket or an airline ticket. But for everything else, in fact, it bothers you that I'm an active minister. You can be a minister in many ways, you can sit on a chair, you can smile, you're nice to everyone, you can avoid any conflict, every problem, and everyone will applaud you, you'll love everyone, you'll be high on the popularity charts, and so on. But you can handle problems. And if you get into trouble, you get into a conflict. If you want to reduce the number of municipalities, you get into a conflict with the mayors. If you want to make state-owned companies transparent, you get into a conflict with management in these companies, as well as with all those who do business with them. And I imagine politics like this, I think of politics as an active work to solve problems. That's why we're here, that's why we're paid, and that's why I'm always gonna work, no matter how much pollen you throw at my feet. If today's interpolation runs out in such a way that I will not be resolved, I guarantee you that I will follow exactly the same principles and work as I have done so far. The police will function effectively, professionally, independently, professionally and for it there will continue to be no holy cows, not in the world of politics, not in the world of economic elites, not in the world of banking, not elsewhere. That's how the police will continue to work. I'm not fooling around with the feathers of the police, I'm saying once again, but what's the duty at the end of the day is also the minister's credit, is that there's a team there that thinks that way, that thinks that way and that the necessary conditions are created. And also to protect the police from the attacks and political pressures they often face. Often, especially in recent times, and I will continue to do so. In other areas, too, with full steam ahead, if you give me confidence today or if my resolution is not voted out. Too bad today, I'm going to say again, although I used it usefully in one part, took advantage of it, it wasn't exactly like the vice president who led me to take a break in the middle, I did a lot of things in the middle. Today we had a meeting of the negotiating group, we prepared a starting point for negotiations with trade unions for a wage agreement for 2015, so that it did not go "to the luft" day, at least not mine. But if you've enjoyed this and you think you've caused me some stomach problems or something like that, I can tell you calmly from this place that my nerves are not principles, and that I will go, of course, under the assumption that I will not be resolved, calmly and with full steam to work on.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u141	Thank you. Replica first, mag. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u142	Mr Minister, obviously we did not understand at one key point, because anyone who performs a public function must, of course, speak the truth in public when it comes to things that may affect his performance. This is one of the fundamental principles that not only applies to ethics and other standards that you so like to refer to, but also very seriously apply to world politics. Even some American presidents fell or were just before the fall, not because of the trouble they had committed, but because they did not tell the truth. And it was counted as that crucial problem. And in this case, you, as Minister, argued that by buying these cards you had nothing that they also noticed in the coalition, because one of the members of Positive Slovenia said he would vote against you because you obviously lied to the entire coalition. It's a quote from the magazine. So here's the point of the problem. Especially because, on the other hand, when it went, for example, for Mr Trudo Cinderella, your party's MP, you said so yourself. Message from the Civil Code. I quote. "Because ethics is the basis of all values, decisions and responsibilities in the National Charter of Ethics, the lady has decided not to continue under the burden of her work in the National Assembly." Ladies and gentlemen, none of us have claimed that you have drawn over 60,000 euros and at the same time earned 95 000 euros, although that assistance to officials after the end of the post is intended for those who cannot earn their survival, and this is clearly an abuse of some right. No one claimed it was a crime. Even for these cards, as far as I understand, and at least for myself and my colleagues, I can say, we did not say that this is a crime, that you got them under completely different conditions under which ordinary citizens cannot get them, but it is true that you have now said that the PKK has not been informed. And interestingly, you yourself have said that this year 2010 – that is, that year after the performance of the function, when, under the law governing this area, you are increasingly exposed because it is assumed that you can still enforce certain connections or levers of power that you draw from your political function that year. And in a year after the end of your function, you are still more under the scrutiny of the KPK than any other, which is already an interesting information. But what's most interesting about this is that [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u143	Mag. Grims, time for the replica is up, so make your own show.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u144	If you'll just let me finish. Not that you've obviously abused the right to compensation, not that you've obviously abused the right to purchase some cards that are intended solely for the relatives of the employees of Adria Airways, but that they're unethical. And you didn't speak the truth in this regard.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u145	Lock down Mr Grims, because the time for the replica is up.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u146	And that's why it's relevant, and that's why you're getting rid of it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u147	Mr Franz Pukšič has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u148	Mr President, since Mr Minister has left, I intended a second procedural proposal, but I ask you what has the advantage, a replica or a procedural proposal after the Rules of Procedure. Please answer that.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u149	Mr. Puksich mag. Branko Grimes signed up for the replica in front of you. And as soon as the discusser who applies to the word is finished, I can give the floor to the motion for a procedural motion. Please, as you have the floor, I have already given you a procedural proposal before you choose.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u150	We must have raised our hands at the same time, and I said I had a procedural proposal. My friend Grimes said he had a replica. It wasn't until then that you decided what you'd take advantage of. You've given priority to the rules of procedure. I have already told you that I had a procedural proposal prepared, but I cannot tell you what I had previously intended because there is no Minister present.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u151	Thank you. The text is by the proposer, mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u152	Dear Members and Members, Mr Minister, one is here now, perhaps another will come. Today, of course, there was a lot of talk about interpellation destroying the reputation of the National Assembly, the Government, that is, the political assembly. And I'll tell you what I think about what's ruining my reputation. Why are Members, the government not well recorded in public? Not because of today's session, not because of the interpolation and things like that. Simply because we do not provide prosperity for all the inhabitants. It's a political task. To adopt such laws, such regulations, creates such a legal order that even the weak can live with dignity. Because we are adopting or better adopting catastrophic laws that have disastrous consequences for the functioning of the economy and the well-being of the population. For example, this is one of the last in the series of laws, the Real Estate Tax Act, which has exposed the entire intellectual misery of the legislative and executive branches of government. The Constitutional Court has exposed this intellectual misery, ladies and gentlemen. That's why people don't like us. The Vice-President of the Government and several members of the Government are doctors of law, and first this law was passed by the government and then by the National Assembly. And here we were against this law, marked as anything other than people who want the good of Slovenia, because we opposed the law. Further, why is there a low reputation? Because financial experts, political experts, owed us 7 billion euros in 2013, that is 7,000 million euros. I voted against this law. On the day of each citizen of Slovenia we charge an additional 12 euros, per month for 360 euros, per year for 4 000 320 euros. People feel this because we are lowering their pensions, their salaries, their social transfers, because we are paying interest for this debt, so people don't like us and they will still be less and less. Furthermore, an additional 7.7 billion debt is foreseen in the 2013 budget. That is why they do not like us because Slovenia's gross social product, after purchasing power parity per person, was 91% of the European Union average in 2008, and today only 79%. People feel that Slovenia is sinking at the speed of the Titanic, so they are not excited about our meetings, our governance, our discussions, especially not with our achievements. The results, ladies and gentlemen, are catastrophic, so he suffers from reputation. People don't like us because they get information that some in the public sector have a gross salary of 900 euros, and some of us have allocated 15 or 20,000 euros to the electorate. Ladies and gentlemen, where are we when we lost our sense of justice? 13 years from 2000 onwards, Minister Virant has been talking about the debirocratisation of Slovenia. And who's feeling this de-de-irocracy somewhere, feeling our citizens? In four points, the European Commission has warned us that we are extremely weak. The first point is the labour market, the inflexible labour market, the second is the high taxes, the third red tape and the fourth banking system. Ladies and gentlemen, we're not doing any of this. You know why they don't like us? Because we're filling the budget with predatory troikas that we send to businesses to still prey on their little ones. That's why. And 32% of respondents said in a survey published on 24ur.com that if they had money, they would have moved from Slovenia. It's the bark of our 23-year-old or better of your work, my little one. I was the mayor, I was unprofessional, in a municipality that had 12,000 inhabitants, so now I can't ask the minister anything, and I can't tell him anything because he doesn't. However, not one key question was answered in the document, none. First time. How can counseling be 30 hours a day if it is 24 hours a day? Second. How is it possible that we had counseling between the 16th? 3rd and 23rd, when no contract was in force? Third time. Why doesn't the Minister of Interrogation allow you to see the diary of visits to the National Assembly? Because in this way we could most likely prove that we are wrong with the interpellation candidates. However, as far as my judicial proceedings are concerned, once again, I have already told the Minister, he has not been, I repeat. It is the same matter of nine parties, all creditors, and there are about 20 individuals, and the company owes 85,000 euros, the circus. Ladies and gentlemen, when will Minister Virant return what he took? He gave back what we owed the people. I should have lived a thousand years. If he and I were judged by the same courts, he'd have at least a thousand criminal charges. Why did the Anti-Corruption Commission find nothing? Because it's an incestous relationship, because today I am here clearly exposed and no one has denied it. If the wife of Roc Praprotnik, a member of the former KPK commission, provides services for the National Gazette, then she lives off it, who will investigate? Dear Members and Members, I am the representative of those thousands, 10 000, 100,000 people of Slovenia who go to work each morning or better at work, yet they can no longer afford to pay their bills on time, buy toys for children, have a little joy at the end of the week and have a modest holiday. Where did we bring this Slovenia with such a deceptive policy? When a doctor operates on a man, he can make a mistake and kill him, but he kills one life. And you, with your action, your vote, your bribery, your lobbying, all of a sudden, at one point, you kill 10,000, 100,000 people. 400,000 people are on the threshold of poverty because you do not represent the interests of the people of Slovenia, but your interests. People's interests are simply sold. People move from party to party like they're buying jams, today one customer, tomorrow the other, today was the president of the world of one party, tomorrow you have your own. What do people say? He sold out. People know exactly what we are going to do to vote against our people, against the well-being of the weak. People know. Those of us who disagree with such a deceitful policy are barking at the moon. But indefinitely, you will not be as inaccessible as the moon and we are not sheep or dogs to bark. And we often hear, let them talk, and we'll do our own thing. The ones we think differently are in the area of tampons, tampons that the doctor puts on the wound after surgery, so he doesn't bleed anymore. We are a tampon among a crowd that bleeds, for this multitude despises politics, because it cannot live. Not because of Ivan Vogrin, not because of Simčič, not because of Meršol, not because of Stepps who had to resign, but because of the disastrous results of this policy. People say, "There's nothing to change." Like all these years, 23 years along the same route of deception, delusion, lies. The saying of men says he who lies, he who steals, even he who falls to hell. I would like to ask the minister how he feels when even a coalition, the vast part of the coalition knows he's lying. The papers were presented, he doesn't know anything about it. Mails were introduced when he made the deal. He doesn't know anything about it. Because of all the lies, the place, the bureaucratic latrines, you've thrown 100,000 people into hell to buy yourself the heavens. Tell me, is that worth it? Is this worth it — such a policy? People talk, people in Parliament are always pounding on empty straw. We all know we're repeating ourselves. You repeat what others have said, you're just egotistical, and it seems to you that it sounds a little different from your mouth. But it's always the same story, and the result keeps getting worse. But there are smart, young people, capable, who don't get in a position where the system doesn't allow them, the electoral system, this system, these systems because you won't let them. We'd do ten times better than we do here. Parliamentary work, ladies and gentlemen, is not a humorous show to entertain citizens and citizens who are unemployed so as not to go to the streets. No, it's something completely different, I think. This parody that we've been listening to, I've been listening to it for two years, and I know that you've been growing it for years and years on the basis of irresponsible work, irresponsible pressure on the voting machine, reading pamphlets written by others, has brought us into bankruptcy. And some people still find that funny. Who exactly are you laughing at? To yourself or to those citizens who are hungry? Many people are prevented from taking the floor in order to gain power in order to be able to make decisions. I was just lucky, a set of coincidences that I came to Parliament, the only thing I could do, is say. I say, and I think I'm saying that you feel, people feel I'm telling the truth. They feel it. Believe me, they feel and most Members here believe and feel that I am telling the truth. How many Members, ladies and gentlemen, how many politicians have always been on the right side since 2000. They sit in Parliament, or anywhere else, they are not guilty of anything, they are responsible for nothing, but always on the page where the urge is cut. When did you raise your voice, scream, set your existence for truth and justice? When was it so intense that you were really heard? Never, or very rarely, or you were winking at me to give you the impression that it was truth and justice. When did you make it clear that national interest in the form of state ownership in companies is only a pretense for the ordinary theft of the ruling elite? Is that really the elite? I don't care who's on the government, the left or the right, only to run such a policy that people can work and live so that the economy can work. Why did Slovenia go bankrupt? Obstacle: The covert bureaucrat killer of Slovenia is not a book dedicated to Gregor Virant, this is a reminder to the new generation that it will not make the same mistakes. We're not gonna live on red tape. It is a call to fight for the right to freedom of creation, freedom of life. What we are experiencing right now is jails, jails for most citizens and citizens who no longer have the hope of getting better here soon, and moving out. I'm sorry to have to say this, people, politicians, don't feel the people. People are crying, they have enough of this crying, young people are not hooligans and they don't deserve to live in fear, and pensioners don't want to live in a country where we're constantly threatening to reduce or take pensions because we've paid someone 20,000 euros a month. This is not my confession, this is the confession of the people I represent, I am only in a position to speak, in the name of the multitude. This is what I have to do for them and for my dignity. Some people even warn me to keep my mouth shut because I think something's gonna happen to me. There is nothing worse, ladies and gentlemen, than living an unworthy life, against your principles, in violation of natural laws, acting against truth and justice! Many of you have already killed your personality by selling the voice of an MP for a rich price and causing poverty in Slovenia. It's the biggest punishment a man can ever get to a level like this. I expect you to vote in your conscience, of course, if you haven't already sold you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u153	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate on interpolation. Interpellation candidates propose to the assembly to adopt the following decision following the discussion: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall, on the basis of the interpretation submitted, extend its non-trust to the Minister of the Interior, Dr Gregor Virant. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 118 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the non-trust of the Minister will be expressed to the Minister if the majority of all Members and Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more. If an untrustworthy person is voted on, the Minister shall be deemed to have been dismissed. Please check the operation of the voting devices. Mr Möderndorfer, however, wants to do so on a procedural basis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u154	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues! On the basis of Article 65, I declare obstruction of the Group of Members. At the same time, let me just say that, as you have probably already seen all day, we do not participate in this debate, nor do we want to participate in an interpretation that is not worth mentioning by a proposaler who has ideally envisioned this whole-day procedure. But you can think about everything else on your own. In short, we're not doing this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u155	Thank you. Does anyone want us to decide? [[…]] Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. Mag. Branko Grims on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u156	Your Honor! From the Civil Gazette, when Mrs Cinderella, their Member of Parliament left Parliament, said: "In the Civil Code, ethics is the basis of all the values of decision-making and responsibility." That's what's been going on so far. In his opening act, after which he was appointed Minister in this government, the Minister also set ethics as one basis for his actions, essentially as the basis for his political career and action. Today we have been able to witness several times a demonstration of the facts of how this same minister once took advantage of his abuse of a right belonging to an official who cannot otherwise obtain livelihoods, cannot be employed and has received more than €60,000 of aid from the State at the expense of taxpayers, while earning more than €95 000 in the same period. And we learned how he denied as a minister that he would have something to do with buying just under extremely favourable conditions, but at the same time there was evidence presented in the newspaper and also here today that, of course, he was also personally engaged. And so this is also an obvious abuse of some right, some connection that is not accessible to ordinary citizens and citizens, because those cards were intended exclusively for employees in Adria Airways and their families. These two must not be a crime, but let those who are called upon to do so be sure, ladies and gentlemen, be extremely unethical. And now I ask you, Mr Minister, why do you insist on this vote, because you know very well that your conduct was not in line with the ethical points you have set yourself as a standard for yourself and your party, and why don't you step down before the vote. However, I sincerely hope that the message of this action was that you did not speak the truth as a minister, which is why many prominent politicians have already fallen, that the American presidents were also in trouble as the most influential politicians of this world, because this is something essential if you are publicly speaking the truth or explicitly deceiving the public when it comes to a question, whether in this case you will understand the result of any vote. For if today the votes for your resolution are more than your support, and thus against it, the political message of this will be clear and inexcusable. And that's the way it's gonna be. The Member's Common SDS will, of course, vote in favour [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u157	Thank you. On behalf of the Ambassador of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat will explain his vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, distinguished Minister Dr. Gregor Virant, interpelled, respected fellow government representatives! A man who lives and falls on ethics. It's a hundred times over. The politician stands 100 times earlier and falls on ethics. Today, in the debates of the Minister and also those who defended him, the muddy name of Mrs Moice Kucler Dolinar, Mr Podalič, I must also defend former colleague Trudo Cinderella. Mojca Kucler Dolinar was the only candidate to apply for the invitation signed by Dr. Senko Plitčanič, Minister of State List. Not 7 or 8 months earlier, as my esteemed cousin had previously said wrongly, I am not allowed to be politicized here, but 8 months after the old head of the Ljubljana Administrative Unit had been retired, Mrs Mojca Kucler Dolinar was appointed Head of the Ljubljana Administrative Unit, and today she has almost half a year since the Ljubljana Administrative Unit has no chief or chief of the administrative unit. Today, some statements here in this hall that have maligned the good name of Mojca Kucler Dolinar deserve legal proceedings. Unfortunately, the rule of law does not work. Today, no one is a winner and there will be no winner, at least Dr. Gregor Virant, at least those who advocate him, but also us who will vote for the untrustworthy, the New Slovenia Group will do so. I myself will drive 200 kilometers towards Prekmurje in a very strong mood, because the public will say, "They are all the same, they are all buying, these politicians, the bread at the commercial director of the bakery, the airline tickets they buy from the commercial director of the airline, and so on and enjoy their political status." We are all the same politicians – but we are not all the same, we are not all the same, we are not all the same as Dr. Gregor Virant, who says Stop bureaucracy. I sign and wait for the effects. Who calls Stop new and higher taxes. I sign and wait for the effects. But he also says, "Behave as I say, not as I do." I don't sign, and I vote for an untrustworthy woman.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u159	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the National Gazette, Mr Richard Braniselj will explain his vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u160	Thank you very much. In the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, we will vote against, against, against, against, against this interpretation. Everything is missing from this interpretation. He's missing both active and passive legitimacy. On the part of active legitimacy, we find that the problem here is the lack of competence, the competence of the proposer of this interpretation. On the side of passive legitimacy, however, we find that this interpellation is actually directed at everything but Minister Gregor Virant. It is directed at our colleague Janko Jenk, directed at our Minister Sam Omerzel, against the leader of the parliamentary group. Yes, there has been a lot of evidence that the Minister is responsible for contracts that are solely the responsibility of the leader of the Group of Members. There were two contracts out there, and there was a lot of talk about it. I have already explained, not only to you, but also to all the institutions that have become part of our parliamentary group, in my office regarding these contracts. With regard to today's agreement with Propiar, I can ensure that it has been concluded transparently, for a very small amount and, of course, not with a view to doing anything in the background. All services were provided correctly. The funds that have gone from our parliamentary group have been used transparently, rationally. In 2012, as the only member group in the National Assembly, we left €72 000 in the budget because we acted economically and there is no bad news here, and no one has found that this would be different and none of this was known by the Minister and I don't know why you think he would be responsible for anything here. You were talking about plane tickets. The Public Information Access Act is currently in force. Go to Adrio Ayways, look at the situation, and you'll find someone you don't want to find. Things are transparent, we don't have a problem with that. As we say, we will not support interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u161	On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Han will explain his vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Dear President, distinguished ministers, secretaries of state, secretaries! We will vote against interpretation in the Social Democrats' Group of Members, because dignity also counts in politics in addition to agreements. In the party, in the parliamentary group, we have decided to respect the interpretation, respect that the investment is interpolated, but if we want to restore little respect for the National Assembly, sometimes it is also necessary to be dignified, broken down and, above all, principled. Slovenia is facing severe challenges, and this moment will not help us with any emotional outbursts or anything more to say. Everyone in this room has made a mistake, and everyone in this room has ever been cursed, but if that's the kind of thing you have to be nailed to the cross, I don't think it's right. Mr. Virant must have learned his lesson in these two interpretations. They say you learn every day in your life. However, as I have already said, the Group of Social Democrats remains a permanent position in the political space and will also vote against interpretation today due to political stability in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u163	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Franz Pukšič will explain his vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ministers, colleagues, colleagues, other government representatives! In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the interpellation. Unless it is necessary to do so, the Minister should come before the National Assembly, Members and Members and make a move as it would be appropriate. That's to be expected, still. Mr Minister, unfortunately you were not here today in the debate, although I expected and wanted to ask you or ask you a question, but you did not answer the question asked whether you were telling the truth or lying to the Slovenian public. I asked you based on the answer to the first interpretation, when you said, even for the past use of this company's services. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u165	Mr Pukšič, the minister can no longer answer, no more belittling, tell us how you will vote in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u166	Mr President, it is true to say it twice in the mill, to the lunatics three times, for the third time, that we will support the interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u167	Thank you. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mr Franz Jurša will explain his vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have already said in my debate that we will not support interpolation in our Group of Members. However, the basic reason for the non-support of interpolation was that it was not justified. If it were justified and could reasonably report irregularities to Minister Gregor Virant, this could also happen. However, given that we have also signed a coalition treaty and an agreement with which we have committed ourselves to performing together, in this case, we will not, of course, support this interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u169	Thank you. Can we make a decision? In your own name, you want to explain your vote, so I suggest you sign up for an explanation. Excuse me? Procedurally, Mr Matjaž, so, Matthew Frangež. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u170	Happens several times, Mr. President. Your Honor! It is now Friday, quarter to nine in the evening, for two weeks now this meeting of the National Assembly has practically been held. I would just like to recommend that we, however, see what our families do, to do just one lap of application. I would ask, if possible, the President to invite everyone who wants to explain their voices in the first call for an explanation and to do so in one round. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u171	Thank you, Mr. Frangezh. I understand your distress, but I'm afraid I can't follow your procedural proposal. Mrs. Tina Comel has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u172	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! Do you remember when former Minister of Economy Stanko Stepišnik resigned? Do you remember who requested his resignation first? I think we all remember his story well, because it's not long now. At the time, we all felt that he had set high standards and high standards with his resignation. And who's the biggest advocate of these? Just you, Minister Gregor Virant. It is easy for others to say what they must do or when it is the right time to give up because their work or conduct is not ethical or moral. However, it is time for us to become critical of ourselves and sweep away before we reach our threshold. I will vote in favour of interpolation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u173	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I am not in any coalition or arrangement with Mr Virant's former close co-workers who have filed an interpellation. Nor could anyone other than Mr Gregor Virant have influenced my decision with his actions, his work and his dual morality. You know him much better than I do, because you have been in close cooperation with him and a long-standing supporter of the SDS. However, he is also, as President of the Party from which Mr Vogrin's Member was excluded, of course, well and for a long time cooperated with him, so that I do not challenge his way here in the National Assembly. My non-trust to Mr Virant is an assessment of ethical values. From each minister, I expect that he is principled, that he is fair, that he is fair, that he is cooperative, that he is ready for teamwork, that he is truthful, that he is a state-created person, and that he will work with all his power for the welfare of the State, that he puts the interests of the State before his own interests or the interests of his client, that he is patient and that he requires of others, also takes into account that he does not have double criteria. Mr Virant is, in my opinion, quite contrary to this, because if he had only a few of the above-mentioned characteristics, he would have offered his own resignation. Because I didn't see this coming, I'm going to support the infidelity. Moreover, if it turns out that you lied before a state authority, Mr Virant, this crime will be a guilty confession under Article 284 of the Penal Code, you are probably aware of that as a doctor of the law. Good advice, Mr Virant, even the bad truth is better than the best lie.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u175	Thank you. Mr Stanko Stepišnik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u176	Thank you so much for saying that. The reasons why I will support the interpretation against you, Minister-respected Dr. Gregor Virant: non-hygienicity at work, airline tickets, transfer, non-compliance with integrity and non-compliance with the principles. It's easy to point to another and talk about principles, morals, values, integrity, but it's hard to admit to yourself and others that you're doing differently than you're saying. The proverb says: It is difficult for birds to tell her that she sings poorly, but it is even harder if the bird does not know that she sings poorly. Since the Secretary-General has not resigned, I will support the interpolation. The coalition commitment doesn't give you the right to do what you want. Upon my resignation, the distinguished Prime Minister of the Government, Mrs Alenka Bratušek, stated: "The Minister of Economy, in the opinion of the Anti-Corruption Commission, has done nothing illegal. Let such standards, as some have mentioned in the last two days, become a practice in politics and be respected by those who have accused Minister Stepišnik for two days." Mr. President of the Civil Code and Minister of the Interior, Dr. Gregor Virant, you have assessed my resignation as a correct move that preserves the credibility of the government. Such correctness would also be expected of you. I am not an interpolation for the joy of the opposition or for the government to fall apart, but for you, Sir Virant, to hold to high standards, zero tolerance and integrity and to set a good example as a wise man, an experienced politician. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u177	Thank you, too. Mr Borut Ambrožič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u178	Thank you for your word, chairman. Greetings to all present! Let me start by letting the cognitive profession know a lot of kinds of intelligence. Most people associate it with psychometry or the measurement of the intelligent quantum we know as IQ. Personally, I am much closer to Howard Gardner's theory, which is that intelligence consists of several components, such as logical, linguistic, spatial, musical, physical kinetic, natural, personal and mutual. I would also add political, social or emotional to them, but of course, we are immediately asked whether we are overcoming it in our social reality. Gardner believes that society is focused primarily on logical and verbal intelligence, and we are both challenged by many interlocutors on the ground, from which we Members were elected to the National Assembly, not because of a Master's degree, but because of a recognised job in the local community or a web of happy circumstances, as someone has said today. This is just a confirmation of Gardner's theory that the different intelligences are relatively independent of each other, but they all have the same weight. The most ideal president, minister, MP, director, doctor, pilot, banker, veterinarian, housewife, car carrier, and who else would be equally represented by all kinds of intelligence. Believe me, we won't find one on this side of the Alps. The living proof of this is also Minister Gregor, who is certainly not without fault. Who is it? There's no such hero. The irony is that Minister Gregor also had the keys to the Imperial cash register in Levstik Martin Krpan and Martin Krpan said to him, "See that I won't ever have to tell you again, Minister Gregor, but you know what, once I was your idiot, and the second time I won't." As a peace-loving person, therefore, I cannot turn a man on the ground, to others who cannot overcome social or other intelligence. That's why I won't support the interpretation. In doing so, I do not believe in man, but in a better tomorrow for all regions of Slovenia, promised by the current government. In doing so, of course, everyone will have to be set up instead of [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u179	Thank you. Mr Branko Ficko has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u180	Thank you. Dear Minister, Article 23 of the coalition treaty of the current government speaks of coalition partners, as we Members say, not as interpolation. However, we also have Article 22, which speaks of partners not publicly opposing others and agreeing to inform the public beforehand. Minister Virant, of course, does it his way. It does not respect this Article. What does Virant say about us? He is talking about the corruption link Janša-Jankovic, talking about the Banana Members of the Republic. What does he say about ministerial colleagues, about Stepišnik? Two days before the well-known invitation to tender that this is unhygienic and that, of course, the President of the Government must strike at the table. Five months later, of course, that boomerang happens with regard to the cards, when it deceives the public for months and, of course, the KPK. KPK, which is a close associate of the police, which, of course, belongs to the ministers of the department. Or when G.G.M. went to Luka Koper, they immediately talk about political cadres, lack of formal education and leadership experience, and when Rok Praprotnik went to NLB, of course everything was quiet. The criteria are not the same and the criteria are double. As far as voting is concerned. Of course, according to the criteria, he doesn't deserve it. But I will stick to article 23 of the Coalition Treaty myself, and that is how I will vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u181	Thank you. Can we make a decision? The explanation for the vote is Barbara Žgainer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u182	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Now, actually, only an interpolated person is important. And here I'm going to touch the morals myself. This is primarily a matter of a value system of an individual not of law. In fact, the Minister was able to use every minute of media space to play a word hero in the sharing of moral sciences, and also at the expense of members of the National Assembly, at the expense of members of the Positive Slovenia. Before that, he loved to overlook his own actions. I stick to one saying that I don't judge people by their words. If I do, I judge them by their actions. And so, Minister Gregor Virant, I would expect your resignation as your contribution, a corrective contribution to maintaining the integrity of this government. Since you have not done so, I simply do not have confidence in such a minister and I do not believe that his aim is to preserve the integrity of the Government of Slovenia. That's why I'm going to support the interpolation myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-04-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u183	Thank you. Can we make a decision? Before we decide, I would like to inform you that although the Positive Slovenia Group has announced obstruction in this vote, in accordance with Article 82 of the Constitution Members are not bound to any instructions, so that colleagues and colleagues who have remained from the Positive Slovenia Group in the Chamber have the right to vote. We decide on the following decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of the interpretation submitted, gives an untrust to the Minister of the Interior, Dr. Gregor Virant. We're voting. I'm calling off the vote. Please check the operation of the voting devices. Take it easy, I'll wait. So, I'm re-opening the vote. We're voting. I'm calling off the vote. Is he okay? We vote on the decision. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 23. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it that the Minister of the Interior, Dr. Gregor Virant, was not voted untrustworthy. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also conclude the 23rd meeting of the Assembly. Thank you and good-bye for the next session.
