ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 62nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 58 and the first paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Polonca Komar, Mrs Irena Tavčar, Mrs Jasmina Opec, Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič, Mrs Alenka Pavlič, Mrs Mateja Pučnik, Mrs Ljudmila Novak, mag. Barbara Žgajner, Mrs Aleksandra Osterman, Mr Bojan Starman, Mrs Eva Irgl, Dr Vinko Gorenak, Mr Zvonko Černač and Mr Roberto Battelli. I invited representatives of the government to the meeting, and I welcome all those present. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 62nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 18 April 2014, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda of the meeting, so I suggest that the assembly set a agenda for today's meeting, as you have received with reference. We are moving on to a decision and before making a decision, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Can we make a decision? So, we're voting on the agenda. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 62nd Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A RECOMMENDED RECOMMENDED RECOMMENDMENT IN CONSTRUCTION OF COHESION PAYMENTS The proposal for a recommendation was submitted to the assembly by a group of 26 MEPs and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this proposal, the group of 26 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. Mr Jože Tanko has a procedural proposal before I give a supplementary explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u2	Thank you so much for your words, Mr President! Dear government representatives, fellow Members! The agenda item we are discussing today at the plenary session is very important. We have invited, requested, to attend the meetings of the two most important persons responsible for the implementation of this policy, this is the Prime Minister of the Government, who now has an accredited service and, of course, the Minister of Agriculture and the Environment. And I find there's no one in this session. Minister Židan was even written as the first representative of the government to participate in this agenda item and did not attend the meeting. As I was informed, he wasn't at a working-body meeting yesterday either. A few days earlier, two days before yesterday's meeting of the Committee on the Economy, the matter or very similar material was also addressed by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment. There Minister Židan promised some commitments, made commitments, were taken decisions, and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia then adopted, in its position, diametrically opposed conclusions from what Minister Židan committed itself to. Here is Minister Dragonja, who is not on the government's list among the government's representatives. And now I ask, Mr President, how will this meeting take place? There are no those responsible for the implementation of the point, no those who have made commitments, and there are entirely other representatives of the Government. And I propose or demand that the meeting of the National Assembly also be attended by the Minister for Agriculture, Mr Židan, who has made some commitments that are important for the implementation of these projects. It seems to me that in this way, when government representatives are changing at the same matter, the same points are made by one promise and the other, while the problem remains open and the issue is being dealt with incontinuously. Therefore, on behalf of the Group of Members, I request that the meeting be suspended until it is attended by Minister Židan and given the appropriate answers for the area for which he is responsible. And for the future, I also suggest that you ensure, despite the fact that confusion, as far as the work of the Government, is concerned, that we move things forward in this way. Therefore, we propose to suspend and request Mr Jewn's participation in this meeting in the consideration of this item on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. Tanko. With regard to your request that we cannot continue our work because there are no competent representatives of the Government, I must warn you this is not the case. One thing you want as a proposalr is how the Government will then decide who will represent it on this agenda item or at this meeting. That's how I find that we have competent government representatives. It is true that Mr Dragonja, Minister for Economic Affairs, does not yet have the authority, so I will not be able to give him the floor until he has obtained this power from the Government. However, the presence of other representatives of the Government is certainly at such a level that the debate in the National Assembly can be held. Last but not least, yesterday or in the last days, there was also a mother's working body, which prepared a report that drew up conclusions so that it was impossible to talk about the fact that it was impossible to hold a meeting. That way, we can continue our work, no matter what the mags say right now. Dejana Jediana, Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, is not present. Indeed, there are no business reasons not to continue working in the National Assembly. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I think it is unworthy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that the problem related to the specific area of water supply is 11 projects that we have written and 7 projects that have been further opened – pushing into an area or sector that Mr Minister is not actually responsible for. This seems inappropriate to me, and this will not solve the problems in this country. There were clear commitments made at the Agriculture Committee meeting on Tuesday regarding the implementation of cohesion projects. Two days after this commitment, the government has overtaken, it is said, in some way cancelled the decisions of Vice-President of the Government, Mr Jew, and the situation in which we are is completely unsustainable. Unresistible. Some government departments speak one another, other government departments speak another, the government accepts something third, the persons responsible for the implementation of these projects have not attended the meetings. By the way, Mrs Jerina, the current Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture, has been in charge of cohesion policy for at least half a decade. As long as the Secretary of State was with Mr Gaspari, cohesion problems were greater today when it comes to agriculture, and it is essential that those responsible for the implementation of these policies come to the National Assembly and provide appropriate clarifications and answers. There can be no exchange of government officials who are accidentally involved in some structure and then deal with these things at a not high enough level. Here we have a meeting of the National Assembly, the problem is big, it is a retention of funds, it is a failure to implement projects, it is a blocking of projects, it is an old and new perspective, and we propose that we hold this discussion here at the appropriate level as regards the absorption of European funds. It's about 400 million and some more money waiting. And now here, I see those key ones who are responsible, such as Minister of the Jews, in every way possible, are avoiding the debate in the National Assembly. I propose, Mr President, that you ensure the participation of the Minister-in-Office meeting and that we hold an appropriate debate in this part and there is no need to avoid this and to make trouble with each other. By proposing to suspend the meeting to ensure the participation of the Minister and then we can proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr Tanko, but I cannot follow your procedural proposal. Following the Rules of Procedure, we can proceed with the work, and the competent representatives of the Government are in session, so that I cannot accept your procedural proposal. Mr Matjaž Han has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I know that some Members are now also fighting a pre-election battle. There are also mayors who are interested in this subject, and believe me, the mayors are not interested in who will sit in this hall, but who will solve this matter in what way. [[adverts from benches]] Calm down, hello, don't be nervous, 'cause everything's gonna be okay. And secondly, these cohesion funds are not for the sake of the Jew, the Minister of Agriculture, but you know that because of the finances. The Secretary of State is here, the Chief of Cohesion is here, and I think we can proceed without a problem and also resolve matters. [[ad from the bench.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SDS, I believe the night has been difficult, so take it easy, listen up and let's move on with our work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u7	Thank you. Therefore, we continue to work and, in order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the applicants, mag. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go, Mr. Visac.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u8	Dear Minister, distinguished Secretary of State and other representatives of the Government. Today we are at an extraordinary meeting and we are discussing the issue of drawing on European funds, and we want to point out, in fact, that before or before these problems develop, it would be good to do everything, indeed everything that Slovenia can effectively and fully support European funds. This is a fundamental objective and purpose today, and we have also proposed recommendations to the Government, and I am pleased that those key substantive recommendations were also supported yesterday by the members of the coalition on the working committee, the Committee on the Economy. Look, I'm not going to say anything new if I say that European funding in Slovenia does not go optimally and that we actually have a lot of difficulties in drawing on European funds. This is also evidenced by the information prepared by the Government for including by the end of March of this year, which shows that payments were made, the budget resources related to the use of the financial perspective 2007-2013, which is a financial perspective that is practically behind us, 66%. We're talking about all the operational programmes. It is particularly critical that if we look at the Government, which claims to be effective in drawing on European funds, we can find that in the first three months of this year it has been able to upgrade this pump for 145 million euros and if the government continues this dynamic by the end of next year, when the last deadline for reimbursement is indeed the last one, the deadline for repayment will be another billion. And we know that this means that there will be about 400 million unspent funds left. So, distinguished representatives of the government, if you continue with this dynamic, we will lose 400 million. With the same dynamics as you have drawn on European funds 3 months this year. The operational programme for which we are here today is even more critical. Operational programme for the development of environmental and transport infrastructure, in particular projects, water projects or projects related to the provision of water supply. Let us look at the figures on this specific operational programme. I will compare pumping or pumping effect from 30 June last year and from 31 March this year. That's a nine-month period. During the nine-month period, you have drawn on this operational programme, I am talking about budget payments, EUR 135 million — in nine months — and if you are planning to have the same dynamics as you have drawn on European funds in these nine months, that is about 15 million per month, by the end of next year, that is to say, by the end of 2015, you will have absorbed 314 million and will have a half billion unspent resources left on this operational programme alone. And respectable colleagues, from these figures, which relate to the last period when the government says it has increased efficiency, it turns out that we will lose European funds and that these funds will remain in the European Union budget or we will not see them. I would not like to repeat here the importance of European investment in this country. In fact, these are the only investment funds, since we are spending the rest of our budget revenues on current expenditure and we are still running out of money. The only investment means – and they would probably eat them, if possible, and they should be devoted to investment – are intended to investment and, as a result, to providing some higher quality of life in this country and also contribute significantly to economic growth, to jobs. In short, if these resources were not available, the state of the Slovenian economy would be even worse if I were not talking about the number of jobs and the number of unemployment – the unemployed would certainly be even more. Dear representatives of the Government, therefore, European funds are extremely important and should be used with great care and, last but not least, planned for this use. To draw on the last cent, not the euro, the last cent of the European cash register and, in particular, to highlight these funds, to be spent effectively. This is said to be projects that will stand up to deliver results that will build on the quality of life of the people and the people of this country. And the numbers show you're a failure here. More. In recent months, we have also been faced with the suspension of European spending due to irregularities found. You're saying it's nothing new, that it's already happened, and you're gonna fix it. I don't know if you will. I would only point out that the Government should do its utmost to release these 185 million assets as soon as possible and that it will not happen by chance that any additional funds will be retained. And this can pose a major problem in achieving this objective that I am talking about. That the Government is also relatively inefficient in planning the use of European funds, and that we are already in the new financial perspective 2014-2020, we do not yet have accepted and confirmed key strategic documents – the Partnership Agreement and the Operational Programme. It is said that we are practically 4 months past the year of the current financial perspective when there should be calls when the planning of projects for the current financial perspective 2014-2020 should be in progress if we want the effects of these projects to be achieved as soon as possible, but we do not yet have the strategic documents adopted. This is bad, it is a witness of the relatively stepmotherly, carefree attitude of the government and also of the responsible ministries towards this issue. Therefore, I do not think that it is clear that the Government is aware of the importance of European funds for both the economy and jobs. And let's take a closer look. Many times in public, it even reflects some view that there are no projects. In order to draw on European funds, there are no projects. That's just not true. When we find that the weakest drawback of funds in the Operational Programme for the Development of Environment and Transport Infrastructure is that we have only €688 million in this specific operational programme for a good billion and a half of our spending rights by the end of last month, that is to say, by the end of March, we have paid only €688 million out of the budget, which is about 44% of our spending rights. That is, you, Your Honor, you hope to spend more than 7 years and 3 months on this operational programme in one year and nine months. And through you claim that there is no room for additional projects. These additional projects turned out to be enough and more. Today, we have a number of mayors with at least 11 projects dealing with water supply, which have legal building permits that have chosen contractors and are just waiting for co-financing contracts or contracts to start building these projects and therefore need an appropriate decision by the managing authority, in this case the Ministry. What kind of projects are we talking about? Ladies and gentlemen, this is not about projects that are superstandard, or for which it would be nice to be, but without them we will be able to. No, it's basically the necessary projects for a healthy life. It is about water supply projects – how to replace problematic water lines with modern, better, and thus provide healthy drinking water for people. There was a debate in this House on whether this should be a constitutional right. As we all have the right to breathe, we probably all have the right to healthy drinking water, but there are many regions in this country that cannot guarantee it, because they have old, outdated, inadequate water and water supply systems and at the same time the municipalities to which you cut money at every end and give them new powers cannot finance it alone, so they have prepared and funded projects for this stage. It is about improving water supply projects in Dolenjska, New Town, Žuzemberk, the Drava basins, the Dry landscape, Kočevje, the wider Ljubljana field, in short, it is about important projects in this country and the right of people to healthy drinking water. Not only are these projects needed to provide drinking water – this is my key and most important reason – but they are also important for the economy to recover at this time of crisis, when you all find it nice to have new jobs and promise them 60,000. Look, there's a few thousand jobs here. Specifically. There's a few thousand of them here. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose that the Government will do everything operationally, and we have also proposed concrete solutions on the Committee yesterday, because the Government has not yet come up with concrete solutions to how these projects – in fact, I have previously counted them – which it says there is no money, we say that the Government should operationally combine both financial perspectives, both 2007 and 2013, as well as the future or present in which we are already living, 2014-2020, so that these 11 plus 7 projects, which are actually "ready to go", are launched. In short, these projects should be brought together in both financial perspectives, also in the new financial perspective under the operational programme sufficient resources to be implemented and, for God's sake, should be done as soon as possible. These projects need to be done, respected if we have European resources or do not have them. Because these projects, if they are not done, are likely to cause additional costs for the municipality and the state, as defective water lines need to be repaired at various events – pipes are leaking, water losses are high, they need to be maintained and serviced continuously and costs are higher than will be a contribution to improving water supply in these areas. So, with all due respect, we suggest that the government finally ceases the bureaucratic reasoning and the bureaucratic approach that something cannot be done but to find solutions. Both the mayors and we on the committee yesterday – we have little knowledge of these things and, last but not least, we have done them in the past – we have proposed solutions. It was clear on the Committee that it was possible to implement these projects in phased work. This is said to be phased into an emerging financial perspective and a second phase in the current financial perspective. So, there are ways and techniques. I do not want to be respected for designing and closing financial structures for these projects here in Parliament. But I expect the government to do this, and that's why we've called this meeting for the government to do it immediately. We have a lot, a respected government, a promise to study that you will find, if you find, solutions and that you will report on it and so on. Similar decisions, which required you to find solutions to this problem, were adopted already in February this year within the framework of two committees, the Committee on the Economy and the Committee on European Affairs. Nothing has moved, except that we now have a government position, that nothing can be done, that the existing financial perspective is full, the future is not accepted and nothing can be done. That's what you wrote, Your Honor. We can't agree with that. More! We cannot agree with the approach taken by Mr Židan, Minister of this Government. When he promised the Committee on Agriculture a week ago that they would tear down the remains to find solutions, the Committee also adopted conclusions in this sense, after which the Government adopted two days' time different conclusions, and today, Mr Jewish, whom we have invited, or the Government has also proposed that he be here today, is not here. With all due respect to the government's representatives present here – I absolutely do not deny their presence, thank God they are here to have time to be in Parliament and listen to us – but the problem is that the one most responsible for environmental projects that has been through the promise that they will be made, that the solutions and all the mayors present will lead through these investments – gave them all the consent in all stages to come to this point – so today he is not here and will wash his hands beautifully. This is unworthy and unacceptable to Members, and most of all to the inhabitants of those parts of Slovenia where they do not have healthy drinking water.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u9	Thank you. The proposal for a recommendation was treated by the Committee on the Economy as a parent working body. Before giving the floor to the presentation of the recommendation, I would like to inform you that amendments have been tabled on 5th, 6th and 7th of the recommendation. However, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group has tabled amendments to points 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the Recommendation. I now invite the Vice-President of the Committee to take the floor to present the report. Mr. Happy Meh has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, President, welcome! The Committee on Economics is at its 50th meeting, held on 28 November. 4. Considered the proposal for a recommendation as the parent working body. The Committee was given a written opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the act submitted in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view. The Service made comments on points 1, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the proposal. The Committee also received an opinion from the Government and the material of the Association of Slovene municipalities. Within the time limit set, amendments to the proposal were tabled by the SDS Group, namely paragraphs 1, 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the proposal. The members and members of the Committee were also invited to attend the meeting to propose amendments to the Committee of the PS, SD, DL and DeSUS, on 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 and 7 of the proposal for a recommendation on which the Committee voted below. The Committee has not adopted any proposals for amendments to the Committee on 5, 6 and 7 and the Committee's proposals for amendments on 1, 2, 3 and 4 have been adopted by the Committee. Representatives of the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia and the mayors of municipalities whose municipal infrastructure projects are stalled due to unissued decisions on the start of the European Union's funds. They drew attention to the problem related to pending projects, to the poor absorption of European Union funds and called for solutions for the timely completion of these projects to prevent the occurrence of financial, economic and other widespread damage in local communities. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee highlighted the need to adopt immediate effective measures by the Government, in particular with regard to the increase in additional spending rights from the financial perspective 2007-2013, the signing of contracts for the allocation of funds to pending projects, the allocation of pending projects to the phase, the effective absorption of funding from the financial perspective 2014-2020, and the fulfilment of the European Commission's requirements for errors identified. The Committee considered and adopted the amendments tabled by the SDS Group on paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 of the proposal and the amendments tabled by the SDS Group on paragraphs 1 and 4 of the proposal became irrelevant. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all parts of the act and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the completed proposal for an act, which is an integral part of the report of the Committee, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u11	Thank you, too. For an introductory explanation of the opinion of the Government, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mrs Andrei Kert, State Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Development Service and European Cohesion Policy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, distinguished mayors! European funds are a key instrument for promoting competitiveness in Slovenia. That is why we are all working together to achieve the same goal or share the same belief that European funds are important for Slovenia and are often necessary for their implementation. In the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Development Service and the European Cohesion Policy, we are doing everything we can to ensure that the procedures run effectively and that the problems encountered in the implementation themselves are tackled. The system is in place and we are working to improve in the light of simplification and efficiency. Allow me to say first that we cannot say that Slovenia is unsuccessful or ineffective in drawing on the European Union's resources. Drawing is good, but not optimal in some areas. Discussions on the poor use of European funds in Slovenia, which express concern about the situation in this area, are sometimes exaggerated. It is true, however, that pumping in one area, this is an area of environmental cohesion, is not optimal. While fund-raising on the other segments is good. By the end of March 2014, Slovenia had already approved projects for the total of EUR 4.1 billion of available European cohesion policy funds for the 2007-2013 programming period. And even more, confirmed projects amount to 4.3 billion or 105.6%, creating the necessary reserve in case some projects are not realized, all with the aim of not losing Slovenia's available resources. As I have already said, there are differences between the rate of use of funds for individual funds or operational programmes. We are therefore successful in the Operational Programme to strengthen regional development potentials and the Operational Programme for the Development of Human Resources. It is worse in the Operational Programme for the Development of Environmental and Transport Infrastructure, particularly in the field of environmental cohesion. And it has been these projects that we have recently paid full attention to, as some projects are not being implemented according to the envisaged dynamics. For this reason, we have also actively sought solutions for projects that have all the necessary permits, and we cannot allocate funds to them because they are occupied by those projects that already have decisions because the bag is limited by means, as we all know. The municipalities were warned that if the individual project had not been completed by the end of 2015, they would have had the opportunity to complete it by the end of 2016, but with their own resources. If they do not complete, of course, the project will not succeed and they will have to pay back the money that was obtained from the European funds. However, I certainly hope that we will not face such a scenario and that it will not have to be solved. Also due to the additional spending rights which the Government has already committed for this purpose in 2012. phased co-financing of projects is also possible. We have agreed with the European Commission and have prepared appropriate guidelines for those projects that can be divided into two parts, which means that the project must be completed in this financial perspective to such an extent as to show the relevant results. The second part would be transferred to the 2014-2020 financial framework. This extension is also defined in the draft operational programme, which the Government took note of last week and has also been published on the website and we have sent it or is in the process of handing it over to the European Commission. The priority of the Government and both the services and the ministries involved in its implementation is to speed up the implementation of measures to prevent or reduce the risk of the loss of European funds in the event of a possible failure to carry out projects already approved or possible subsequent financial corrections. Of course, the participation of all beneficiaries who must be aware of their responsibilities is also essential. Ladies and gentlemen, in the end, I would like to say a few more words about the recent suspension of Slovenia's refunds by the European Commission. Let me say that Slovenia has already had temporary repayments in the past in 2007, 2010, 2012 and 2013. Thus, the RS negotiated the reimbursement of funds under individual claims in the past, last year, when there were total stoppages of around €250 million. The process itself lasted six months, corrective measures were properly implemented in all cases and Brussels released refunds into the Slovenian budget. In this latter case, it must be said that Slovenia has reported some shortcomings in the implementation of European Cohesion Policy projects. This does not affect the beneficiaries or project operators, as the payment process from the Slovenian budget for the EU of projects is running smoothly. I must say that we have already sent a proposal to Brussels for the partial release of the reserved payments of Slovenia, and at the same time the Office for Budgetary Control in Brussels has already sent a response to the European Commission's provisional report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u13	Thank you, too. We are moving on to shifting the positions of the groups of Members. Mr Marko Pavlisič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, distinguished representatives of the government, the esteemed High Council! The effective use of European funds is extremely important for Slovenia. In the light of the current financial crisis, the funds of European funds are the most important means of investment, including the economy, particularly the construction, which was among the most affected for the economic recession. Of course, it's your own fault, but it's not the workers' fault, it's the speculators' leadership positions. The Republic of Slovenia is justified from the European financial perspective 2007-2013 for cohesion policy funds, from structural funds up to €2.7 billion and from the Cohesion Fund up to €1.4 billion, totaling 4.1 billion of the European funds that Slovenia can spend or has already spent by the end of 2015 at the latest. For the Operational Programme for the Development of Environmental and Transport Infrastructure, Slovenia has received around €540 million for the environment. Already in the first phase, EUR 584 million was allocated. The use of European funds is steadily increasing. A few shy beginnings are followed by a strong finale. I hope that we have learned from this and that in the next perspective we will start at a strong pace and then only accelerate. However, we must be aware that poor preparation of projects and poor implementation are also responsible for the large number of problems in drawing and, last but not least, for the freezing of the assets. Even at these points, the State has obviously not carried out its supervisory work, as it should have done during the entire financial perspective, at the right time of the four governments. At this point, the competent authorities must clearly communicate to the National Assembly where, by amending legislation, such as in the field of public procurement, we can further assist here, in the National Assembly. Of course, the funds temporarily frozen have not yet been lost for Slovenia. The government must, and according to our information, seek as soon as possible to defrost frozen funds in the framework of the dialogue with the bodies of the European Community. However, due to the poor use of European funds, in 2012 the Government set additional spending rights for European cohesion policy funds, the so-called overcommitment, which means that it has issued additional contracts for specific reserve projects with a view to maximising the use of funds. It is 11 projects of environmental investment in municipal infrastructure, says water systems, cleaning plants, their value is about EUR 236 million, of which EUR 182 million is a European part. The projects are ready, they have building permits and all the documentation, and they're "ready to go". They are waiting for the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment to issue decisions to draw on cohesion money. However, we must be very careful in such procedures, as such projects can quickly fall entirely under the burden of the integrated budget, which will not be feasible in the event of clear commitments to the golden fiscal rule. Already, as a result of the developments in the largest government party, interest on international markets has increased significantly, and this also has a clear impact on the eligibility of each investment if it is financed by borrowing and not by European funds. The revision of environmental projects under the Environment and Transport Infrastructure Programme has found that all projects allocated do not follow the dynamics, are unlikely to be ready in time and will be lost for them. This represents 15% of all allocations, or around €100 million. For the projects mentioned above, the Government started looking for solutions last year in the direction of acceleration, change in phases or abandonment, if they had not yet had the necessary documentation. Apart from the municipality of Nova Gorica, which gave up the Regional Waste Management Centre, discussions were unsuccessful. Now, in a situation where we are at risk of losing at least 100 million euros of funds already allocated to the municipalities, in addition to making a successful withdrawal from the European Cohesion Funds, the mayors will not understandably be willing to give up the straw money for unprepared projects or leave the money to others. On the one hand, we have unfinished projects with decisions and, on the other hand, undecided projects. It is common between the two that if no compromise, pragmatic solutions can be found, the European funds for both sides will be lost. As an opportunity to make the best possible use of European funds, there is also an option to divide projects into phases. Something like this would come true in this financial perspective, and then in the next one, it's 2014-2020. This is a pragmatic approach, which depends more on the project promoters than on the government. Or they'd rather choose a sparrow in their hand or a pigeon on the roof. Last but not least about some of the so-loving multipliers of state consumption. Here we have a nice example where we get quite a few euros from the European funds for one euro of state money invested. Don't make any mistake! Every poorly spent euro, even if it is from European funds, is poorly spent on the euro. We must advocate that all funds are spent effectively and for the greatest possible effect. At the same time, we must not forget that government exchanges have also changed priorities. We hope that the new government service in this area will also mean a greater continuity of work, so that without a government, it can continue its work in a peaceful manner, as in Belgium, where the government lasted 541 days, the year and a half is the right one. This is what we all owe our citizens and citizens. Since we are committed to proactive and pragmatic work in the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, we will support the recommendations of the National Assembly that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in cooperation with the local authorities, continue to coordinate the search for a solution to the already prepared projects for co-financing by cohesion funds and to verify the projects mentioned by possible phase division or to ensure the source of their funding through reallocation.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr Franz Bogovic will present the position of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u16	Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished president, distinguished minister, representatives of the government! Welcome to today's session. For the third time in one week we meet on the same subject and for the third time in the National Assembly we can also welcome a group of more than ten mayors, to whom I welcome a special welcome here in the National Assembly. [[adverts from benches]] I'm sorry, Mr. Meh. We'll kiss again. I'm asking for serious. This isn't about making fun of me.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u17	Mr. Bogovich, you have the opportunity to present your position.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u18	In the Slovenian People's Party and New Slovenia Group, we decided to make a request for an urgent meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment, at which certain decisions were also adopted, which were also upgraded yesterday at the Second Committee, the Committee on Economic Affairs, which was the predecessor of today's meeting in the National Assembly. Why did I welcome the mayors of the National Assembly? Because the mayors here on the balcony and a number of other mayors have proven in the country what has been consistently repeated that the municipalities are not prepared, that they are not able to run projects and that this is why they are holding back European funds. Why do we have enough projects today? I'm going to make this a little more personal, because I've been doing a lot of personal work on these projects in 2012. When I examined this area in early March 2012, there were 12 active projects, 12 construction sites were opened. There are 49 active projects today. 37 extraordinary rights and 12 from the so-called overcommitment, and here are representatives of municipalities with building permits and selected contractors for an additional 11 projects. It is said that at this time we came from 12 active projects on 60 active projects. And here are all the projects recorded in the operational programme of the OP ROPI for the period 2007-2013. No one imagined, no one gathered in that year after political colors, who would go forward and who would not. Let me tell you what I found out in 2012. Who is leading the policy on the use of cohesion funds in environmental infrastructure? First of all, lower-ranking officials at the former Ministry of the Environment today at the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, who are alone with the supposed choices, which projects will go ahead. From here on, they have the key to building engineering projects, designers and lobbyists, who have politically, economically, entrepreneurially abused certain projects. When I noticed this situation, and also that at least 60% of these funds will remain untapped, if we go this way, we have changed the way we work. What did we do? We sat at the table with project promoters and reviewed all 60 projects. What did I find out? That a number of projects are significantly longer in the project preparation phase in 2012 than those already granted a decision in 2008-2009. And that was why there was an understanding in the government that I was a member of, that we had agreed with Comrade Žerjav through the Ministry of the Economy to finance and that we had introduced a so-called overcommitment that allowed more than 550 million additional funds to be spent. At that time, a green light was also given and at the same time a task was given to all project managers as well as municipalities, mayors, designers to prepare as many projects as possible for the ready-to-go phase. And at that time, we were also doing this by identifying which project was inappropriate to move on. Thus, the Logatec Waste Management Center project was excluded from the perspective because we found that we do not need so many centres. And all he has done so many times this week is today, the missing Minister of the Jews, that he has signed a decision on the CEROD Novo Mesto, which is why I will write an open letter to him and to the President of the Government and also to all the mayors who are behind this project, because I will remind him of the Lower Tes, as I tell him. But that was all he could do. Next time, not today. And what stage are we in today? Today, we are at this stage, when you must, respected colleagues at the ministries, sit at the table project – just as you and your colleague Žerjav and Pmurci sat once a month on monthly coordination, along with designers, with engineering houses – and literally you need to determine which project will be implemented by the end of 2015 and which one will not. For each project, there are monthly deadlines, and if you control it monthly, you know exactly what will and will not happen. And don't wash your hands Pilate's continued and don't send mayors to rumble in Slovenia, and let them pray to other mayors to give up any of the projects. Why won't they give up the projects? Because your government has entered into the next cohesion programme, so that it will not finance all these projects, but that it lacks 250 to 300 million euros. And that's the key problem we're dealing with. There was no need for Parliament to deal with this today, but I am glad that this can be discussed in public. The problem is that the government has decided to put an additional EUR 200, 250 million into cohesion in the next financial perspective, but if it wants all of these 60 projects that I have mentioned, it should give at least EUR 450 to 500 million. And there's a rabbit in that bush. Tell the Slovenian public that we do not need these 11 pipelines and sewage systems, we do not need at least one more five, such as a coastal one, which is not yet among them, and tell the public that you have decided that the next cohesion, in which we have a billion euro of funds available for these areas, will be directed to some other programmes. Programs you don't have yet. You're talking about accelerating economic growth, I don't know what. Perhaps this will be a subsidy or you will ask yourself in 2018, 2019, as we did in 2012, where are these projects with which we will spend this money. And that's the key problem. When you have this problem resolved, you will be able to ensure that these mayors and those to whom you refer the question of division into a phase will have in the next financial perspective that the rest of the projects will be paid in full or in part, and then, believe me, for 13 years I was the mayor, these are reasonable people, these are not politicians, like many people in these rooms, you will agree on everything. But you must come with a clear, firm word and assurance. Now that there were questions, the answers were "we don't have a basis", "we don't have one" Fine, great to talk about it in the National Assembly. [[…]] Behind my back are representatives of the government, there are mayors, I've already told the board twice that we don't need anyone anymore. We're responsible for that. If anything needs to be changed in the legislation, we will be in these benches, if anything in the regulations is necessary, in the government, if necessary, as we have done, that we have called the Department of Nature Protection, for the protection of culture, those who carry out audits, those who are responsible for the projects, that they are priority projects, because they are European funds, you will do your job in this area. From here on out, believe — the mayors have proved that they can do their job. And I see in this point very simple solutions, which are also radiated by these conclusions, and let me also take them off at the end. Firstly, a clear review of these 49 projects for which decisions have already been made and those to be adopted and for these 11 projects should immediately be made of which project can be divided into phases, which cannot be divided into phases. At the Ministry, find out which ones can be divided into stages because there must be a comprehensive set – the representative of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment gave the number between 15 and 20 projects – go to these mayors and tell them that it is possible to do so again. Many of these mayors, such as the Pomurski, where they have a project of 50 million, are likely to be happy that they will not carry out these projects in two years and another project. And when you have this issue clearly divided, look at the cohesion work in the railway area if all the money is spent – I say that it will probably not, if you provide, thank God – otherwise from those stages, put a few million on each project and drive these 11 more projects and there will be 60 operational projects. However, if there are 60 operational projects and if each of these projects makes a million euros a month, then there is a build-up and we will need, as we have seen, a realisation of 80 million a month if we are to get this money through for the whole of cohesion. And here are the biggest backlogs. And in this way, I can imagine how this problem could be solved. From here on is a key question and today give the Slovenians the answer that we will not waste any time needlessly. Will you provide €450 million in the next cohesion period for waste water and water supply? If you say no, you will say something very clearly today. First of all, there is no need for water anywhere else in the Dry Land, even though they drive it home today. And second, what you will say is that you have decided that Slovenia will pay the penalty for all sewer areas that we will not build by 2015 and by 2017 when we have our hands placed. I hope you know what kind of fire you play with when you "gemblate" with that money, if I use a casino term. We'll pay. Instead of using European money for these projects that are urgently needed to build them now, we are threatened with paying penalties because we committed ourselves in 2004 to rescue these systems. And for God's sake, let's be so wise, so smart and make clear priorities. Excuse me, in Suhi Krajina, the first priority is to build that water and bring the water home. They don't fantasize about other things, because without water, they just can't get through. And so it's somewhere else. Next is the fourth thing to do. If it is necessary to amend the Budget Implementation Act in order to be in charge of the cohesion projects of the municipality, make it a priority that the phase of the projects should be carried out in such a way as to draw on municipal and state resources, if it is necessary to hire them abroad, and to hire them for the banks, let us rent them a few more 10 million to build water pipes. Give these projects an advantage, even if the deficit is greater in the budget, because it is simply necessary to do so. And, crucially, give the mayors, Slovenes and Slovenes the assurance that you will ensure that these projects – all 60 of them – and I estimate the additional 5 that are urgently needed – are provided through two financial perspectives. At the time the projects were written as content numbers, it was estimated that it was possible to do so with 550 million, obviously not realistic, because reality has shown that we need about 1 billion to do so. All together, these projects are worth almost 2 billion because half of them are not recognised costs, some are their own participation. 2 billion means 6 years after, per round, 350 million, which is 1% of gross social income. We can also do this, and I hope that we are all aware of what it means to do 1% of GDP through the implementation of cohesion projects. After all, the only statistics that this government can boast about are that economic growth was created precisely because of what was done on environmental projects and believe, much of this was done in 2012. I am also pleased that the representatives of the Government, including Minister of the Jews and Secretary of State, acknowledge that there have been steps in the right direction and continue this way and you will have support both from the coalition and the opposition, because, as stated on the committee, this water is being drank by all those who have any political conviction. And the mayors don't care if you look at the projects, they're mayors from all the political parties, so let's go to this work and do it and it'll be in the best interest of drawing on European funds, in the good of the Slovenian economy, and Slovenk and Slovenes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u19	Thank you. Mr Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The description of the recommendations made by the applicant relates to the suspension of disbursements from EU funds of €186 million for 11 projects under the environment and transport infrastructure. We are aware that the suspension of European funds has been caused by alleged irregularities in tendering procedures. For this reason, in the Parliamentary Joint Democratic Party of Slovenian Pensioners, we estimate that we have sufficient legislation in our legal order to identify the culprits and to sanction those responsible accordingly. In the DeSUS Group, we note that the proposal for recommendations can also be made on the spot from the point of view of public awareness, although we believe that this is another bureaucratic complication that has temporarily stopped the Brussels cash flow to these projects. In view of the fact that, this March, we have re-established the Government's Development Service and European Cohesion Policy, which has all the powers to manage, control the use of European funds, we expect the new body to respect and act in accordance with the legislation in force in this area. In short, in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia we have enough such and similar stories to deal with the problem of European co-financing. At this European level, we want them to prove themselves to be a legally-oriented country, in terms of accepting, resolving and also ultimately implementing the documents for which we have set ourselves our national development strategy. In order to achieve as many objectives as possible, such as raising the economy, reducing unemployment and poverty, raising the educational structure and the related global competitiveness of Europeans, of whom we are also representatives, if you will, of the state of Slovenia. And last but not least, we must not forget the biggest party in the world, that is the care of the older population. We are aware that it is our mission to regulate matters for the welfare of citizens and citizens who co-form our country, and we will not allow matters or projects to be carried out solely for the interests of individuals and companies. The fact is that in order to solve these 11 projects, which mostly include facilities in the Ljubljana, New Town and Kočev area, there is simply no money, so in the state budget, we cannot provide it further in this economic and social situation of the country. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we followed both the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service and the opinion of the Government, which offers an answer in three parts. Of course, the core of these issues is clearly seen in investment blockades at the municipal or local self-government level. Indeed, the state cannot ensure that these projects will see the green light, so according to the data, some municipalities such as Kamnik, Domžale, Trzin, Mengeš and Moravče have already decided, on their behalf, to continue the construction and to carry out the construction on their own without European money. We are wondering if the municipalities would even be reimbursed within the deadline, that is to say by the end of the following year, because no decisions have been made on the allocation of funds by the competent government Development Service and European Cohesion Policy. In the DeSUS Group, we agree that the system of managing dedicated European funds needs to be upgraded in terms of a more stable, transparent and credible Slovenian-European system. Finally, let me remind you that we have been warned by the European Commission that we are not sufficiently successful and efficient in drawing on the European cohesion funds allocated to Slovenia under the current financial perspective for the period 2007-2013. In the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, we believe that we are not yet old enough and that this is another additional lesson of learning, that we need more time and also assistance for a more efficient and transparent way of drawing on these funds. I would also add that projects should be strictly implemented in accordance with the planned real timeframe, which is the only way to avoid any ungrateful and unloving bureaucratic management. In the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, we are united in supporting the updated proposal for recommendations concerning the suspension of payments of cohesion funds adopted on the home working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u21	Thank you, too. Mag. Matthew Tonin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u22	Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear mayors, welcome! European money is practically the only one that can drive this Slovenia forward in the current situation. European money is the only source of investment that is still available in Slovenia. And European money is the only one who can revive clinically dead construction. What's the problem now? That we have European money at our fingertips and we just don't take it. Between 2007 and 2013, the Government distributed all EUR 548 million in paper infrastructure development. What do I mean when I say "on paper"? That the Government has signed co-financing contracts with individual municipalities for projects that do not yet have construction permits. And what's the problem? The problem is that from the European financial perspective 2007-2013 all the money allocated must be spent by the end of 2015. If the money is not spent by the end of 2015, it will not be pumped. However, if projects are only implemented in half and not only will they not be spent, this money, which has been spent in half, will even have to be returned to the European cash register. And it can happen to us that instead of clinging to this European money and taking it to become virtually unattainable to us. And when we talk about these environmental projects, especially when it comes to sewage and plumbing, these EUR 548 million, which was distributed on paper, are questionable for 200 million projects. And to make the tragedy so much bigger, we have today, this moment of at least 11 projects that we can start immediately. Right away. And these projects also want European funds, and even among these projects is my home, stone project. That is why, Mr Hršak, we have not given up on these projects, nor have we given up on European funds, but we are still fighting franticly for them. And as I said, the tragedy is that money is at our disposal, and we gave it to those who can't spend it, but we don't give it to those who can start pumping it today. As the story is as it is, enormous economic damage is being created. Economic damage is created first because the municipalities have invested hugely, not 10,000 euros, 100,000 euros in project preparation, because the construction operations in Slovenia, which could today or tomorrow – because the weather conditions are favourable – have begun to work on the ground, waiting, and, finally, huge costs for extending bank guarantees are being incurred. All of this means great economic damage for Slovenia and for all of these companies. If we ask simple people how this problem can be resolved wisely, we would tell you very simply that those who cannot implement the projects, take the money and give it to those who can implement these projects. I think it's a very simple school and simple logic. What does the government behind us say? That they can't do that. Since they've already made a donation with the joint, they can't take it. Therefore, the mayors across Slovenia are asking them to consider for themselves what they can do and to assess that they will not be able to do so, so that they simply return the money on paper. There are few mayors who will give up European money a few months before the elections, especially if they have no assurance that they will be able to carry out these projects in a later perspective, that they will voluntarily say, "I don't want this money." Very little, or, as I know, there is only one such mayor who has given it up, and everyone else insists on doing so despite the risk that they will not be able to complete the projects, which means they will have to pay back the money. Do you have any idea how money will be returned to a municipality that has an annual budget of €5 million? It may have received €2.3 million because it will not complete the project by the end of 2015, and it will have to pay it back. The municipalities will be financially broken, and who will cover this financial disaster — again, the state. That is why we are all in this house and this House because we are looking for solutions, not to convince each other that something is not being done. The New Slovenia Group proposes to the Government at least four solutions to how this problem can be solved. For the first time, to design, we make a legal basis, a purely legal basis, to withdraw funds from those who will not carry out projects or for unsuccessful projects. How can this be done? I mean, if we set a clear deadline and conditions on this legal basis, so if we make it clear that it is necessary to have a building permit by the end of this May, those funds will be automatically confiscated by the end of May. And in this way, however, part of the funds for those 11 projects that are still waiting with all the building permits to be implemented would be released. That's a first chance. Another possibility is that there will be a reallocation of funds under the Operational Programme for the Development of Environment and Transport Infrastructure. So let's move some of the means from the transport part to this environmental part that needs more resources. I am aware that this solution is very difficult, but it is still possible because it requires renegotiation with the European Commission. The third option and the third solution is to break existing projects into stages. The mayor, who today has EUR 3 million allocated for certain projects on paper, could spend a million and a half in this financial perspective and the other half in the next phase. Of course, there is a problem here that no one is interested in this phase unless there is a clear assurance that its second phase will also be financed in the next or existing financial perspective. It's hard for you to force someone to divide projects into stages if you don't assure them that they can also draw on and acquire European funds for the second part. If you just say, "Come on, break it down and do what you can, but the rest will somehow," I tell you that every smart mayor will try to do everything to prepare the projects and get the construction allowed to carry out the whole project and not just part of the project. The last, fourth option we offer in the parliamentary group is to draw as soon as possible from the existing, current perspective 2014-2020. If we look back a little bit, then we can see that, so far, from the financial perspective of 2007-2013, we have drawn only two thirds of the available money from all three programmes. During the first 5 years of the perspective, from 2007 to 2012, European funds were extremely poor, only in 2012 things began to move forward. The current government in the European Cohesion Policy Recovery Report 2007-2013 now sets itself the goal of making full use of the funds from the operational programme for the development of environmental and transport infrastructure, the famous OP ROPI report by the end of 2015. It's probably that, but I don't want to be too rude, but more than a bedtime story. If we know that 41% of all available money has been spent so far under this programme and that we should spend another 60% of the money in the next year and a half, then you can imagine what I'm talking about. There are also difficulties in drawing on European funds due to the lack of reserved resources in the country's budget, particularly in the area of large infrastructure projects where the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment is an intermediary body, which has also signed contracts for projects that have not been designated and have been without appropriate authorisations. Therefore, on the other hand, projects with real opportunities for timely implementation have been cut off from funding – 34 municipalities have already obtained a legal building permit for 11 municipal infrastructure projects of a total value of 235 million six months ago, six months ago, and the contractor of the works – but they do not yet have decisions to start drawing on cohesion funds. In November 2013, the government ordered the managing authority not to issue decisions until the Ministry of Agriculture provided and agreed on free spending rights for a particular project. See, can't the government provide these additional 35 million euros, which would mean that municipalities could get an additional 200 million euros in European money? There is €35 million on the ground for an additional €200 million of European money. Even though these projects are ready, they are already confirmed by the intermediate body and so on. We therefore support the mayors of the municipalities who asked the Government on 15 April this year to issue decisions on the allocation of these 200 million euros from the Cohesion Fund and 35 million from the State budget, so we do not really understand the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's Development Service and European Cohesion Policy in order to move these projects into the future financial perspective. With such irresponsible action, it is clear to everyone that these projects will somehow fail and that the contractors will file complaints against the congregations. Already, as I mentioned earlier, the cost of operators to extend bank guarantees was at least EUR 40,000. It is even more illogical to reject the proposal of the mayors of these municipalities to split these projects into two phases by financing the first part from the current perspective 2007-2013, and the second part from the 2014-2020 perspective. In New Slovenia, we also point out that the Government, in moving these projects to the next financial perspective, has acted contrary to the decision of the joint meeting of the Committee on the Economy and the Committee on EU Affairs of 19 February 2014, by which the Committees of the Government have proposed to find an operational solution that will enable the immediate launch of environmental projects on hold or "ready to go" so as to ensure that cohesion funds are drawn as far as possible from the old financial perspective. In all this, it is interesting that among 14 projects the Government has turned on a green light for EU funding, which is seven projects from northeast Slovenia, where Minister Dejan Židan comes from, despite the fact that not all had the right permits. In my opinion, the almost most controversial project is the supply of drinking water to Pomurje – system C, which even the ministry has just identified as a very risky one. So is it just a game of coincidence or something else? On the one hand, may giving of generosity result in a lack of individual congregations on the other side of the country? To conclude, we must ask how Slovenia is prepared to adopt the basic documents for the current perspective 2014-2020. While we were sending working versions of documents to Brussels – by the way, all of them received sharp criticism – we were already ahead of 15 countries. All these facts show that the Government is not capable of providing and implementing standards that would be in line with the requirements of the European Commission. Despite the fact that the first quarter of the first year of the new financial perspective has passed, Slovenia is still not ready to draw funds from the new perspective. We are therefore late to draw more than 100 million euros from this perspective this year. In view of the fact that the first tenders have already been issued in Brussels by the end of 2013, the Slovenian Government has not yet signed a partnership agreement with the European Commission. Operational programmes are not ready either. We can rightly conclude that in this year Slovenia will not simply implement the tenders. And despite the fact that this money is urgently needed. The data that in the State budget for 2 years, 2014 and 2015, only around €60 million is foreseen, which represents only 2% of the more than 3 billion European money that we have the right to invest by the end of 2020, shows the passiveness and determination of our Government. Such a dynamic will, in fact, be lost for the first 2 years of the new financial perspective. In the New Slovenia Group, we are therefore wondering whether our country can really afford such irresponsible behaviour, again because of negligence or incompetence, for which no one seems to take responsibility. With such an earring from Brussels, everyone in this Chamber should ask who is to blame and what we must do immediately today so that we do not face such risks in the future. In view of all that has been said and said, of course, the Christian Democrats will support the draft reports adopted yesterday by the Committee, and not by the government coalition, which have already come back to the Hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u23	Thank you. Mr Zvonko Lah will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u24	Dear colleagues and colleagues, President, Honourable Deputy Minister for today's debate, respected former colleagues mayors on the balcony! Drawing on cohesion funds or money from cohesion is the only investment source that this government has at its disposal for investments that were identified long ago in 2007. The use of rights in the Operational Programme for the Development of Environment and Transport Infrastructure is around a billion and a half in the financial perspective 2007-2013. From this in the area of environmental protection 545 million. The projects were launched in 2007. In 2009, the then government divided decisions or made decisions on projects for almost all of the right to use these funds. However, more projects were involved in the preparation. These projects were found to be too slow to prepare. Our parliamentary group has repeatedly wanted to reach the actual state of readiness and feasibility of those projects with decisions or money on both committees, competent committees and parliamentary questions. It turned out that many investors who had received the decisions had somehow fallen asleep in the preparation of the projects. Not even those who were in the yellow book. Let me explain that the yellow book means that the contractor creates project documentation, obtains a building permit and executes a project. Several projects were later amended after the red book, which means that the investor already has a building permit before selecting the contractor. Well, since these projects were pumped very slowly and when we did not get a cut in the feasibility of these projects, the 2013 European Cohesion Policy Drawing Report was also launched in January 2014. Since the drawdown was too slow, the managing authority has also developed a number of measures to reduce the risk of losing European funds under the OP ROPI programme. Our task force has seen this second point in order for the managing authority to transfer funds that are not intended to be used from one operational programme to another operational programme, namely a programme to strengthen regional development potentials, thereby reducing the risk of non-supply. This means that they do not worry if these projects are not completed, but they will simply transfer these funds to another operational programme where the pit is bottomless and the funds are spent and the matter is resolved. The former Government, in view of the fact that many projects will not be implemented in time and will not be drawn up in time, ordered those investors already preparing the projects to hurry up, to bring projects to the construction permit and that, if not in this financial perspective, 2007–13, and immediately with the start of 2014 in the new financial perspective, only the payment should be made from 2014 onwards. And in good faith, the projects were also ready. These projects were intended to draw 200 million European funds, but none of them were. Since this government has done nothing, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group has then convened the Committee on the Affairs of the European Union and the Committee on the Economy as the body for the management of these funds. At this meeting of the Committee on 19 February this year, a decision was also adopted, including by the parliamentary groups of positions, saying that the government should provide or seek an operational solution that will enable the immediate launch of the environmental projects that are on hold, that is to say, the projects "ready to go", the overcommitment projects, so as to ensure that the cohesion funds of the old financial perspective, 2007-2013, are drawn up as quickly as possible, and help draw the funds of the new financial perspective that is already under way in 2014 and thus also contribute to the economic start-up in the Republic of Slovenia. This decision was ignored and contacted on 4 April by all 34 municipalities that had prepared projects and selected contractors – these operators have also given a bank guarantee, which means that operators cannot obtain a bank guarantee for other projects if they already have some projects, that is to say they have already done damage to these operators for about six months. With this simple letter, the Government informed all the mayors that it was not easy for the funds to fall off and that the Government would again check the relevance of these projects in the new financial perspective and that they would be implemented in the new financial perspective. The Slovenian Democratic Party reacted immediately and we decided to convene this meeting, to pour a clean wine, to see if it is true that the members of the coalition groups voted in favour of these conclusions with a fig in their pocket and that the Government simply rejected these projects, and the question is when will they come into line in the new financial perspective? In the parliamentary group, we have seen what the former Minister has already said in this area, Mr Bogovič, that these projects can be solved with a phase, so that part of the implementation of these projects, which will not be completed by the end of 2015, which have received decisions and are being implemented, is transferred to the next financial perspective and all these 11 projects are immediately included in this financial perspective and thus reduce the risk that the drawback of these funds would not be carried out to the greatest extent possible. In the meantime, the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party and the Christian Democrats convened a meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment, which is the intermediate body, solely responsible for the preparation of these projects, at which they proposed certain decisions, which were subsequently rejected in the vote, the conclusions of the coalition groups were also withdrawn, as the Minister himself proposed certain decisions that go in the right direction – that within two months the Government would agree on the stage of the implementation of these projects with those 11 cohesion projects that are ready. It was also agreed that the Government should consider transferring unused cohesion funds from other projects under the OP ROPI programme, this being said to be state infrastructure projects, also to the field of environmental protection, and thus getting additional drawback funds, as the former State Secretary stated at the meeting of this Committee that it would remain under the OP ROPI programme of unutilised funds of between 400 and 500 million. We in our parliamentary group agree on this, and so do we. About 200 million in the environmental projects programme and at least so much or more in the area of infrastructure state projects where there are no reserve projects. It is also no longer possible to conclude new contracts under this programme after 2013. Which projects are confirmed, which is signed, this must be done. It is not possible to invent new infrastructure projects to draw up those funds that are not supposed to be implemented there. Above all, very critical projects in the field of railway infrastructure are but the next day, after both opposition and positions have unanimously supported these conclusions proposed by Minister Židan, who is responsible for environmental projects, the Government has overtaken these conclusions. And I understand why Mr Dragonja is here and there is no Mr Židan. Of course, it is difficult to come to the National Assembly to tell Members that what you proposed 12 hours ago, as the person responsible, is not true. And the government, with an opinion on the recommendations that we have discussed or at the call of this meeting, replied: "No money, things are stopped." Yesterday we were on the Committee on the Economy, which, in my opinion and in our opinion, is not responsible for this meeting today. The Ministry of the Economy has no more powers since the administration has been transferred to the government. I am pleased that he was the Minister of Economy, that he saw the damage done to the economy. And I am sure that he has seen that the proposals of both our parties and other opposition parties are realistic in order to resolve all the funding from the financial perspective 2007-2013 by including these projects and that they are feasible in a phase to complete part of these projects in a new financial perspective, for which the funds are also provided for in the new operational programme, although this has not yet been adopted. This is said to be the solution and this was also recognized yesterday by the coalition Members because they confirmed the three conclusions we proposed yesterday. Today, however, we have amendments from coalition parliamentary groups suggesting that the conclusions they voted yesterday be deleted. So again, it was the night that changed things. And gentlemen of coalition parties, Members and Members of Parliament, you are doing a great deal of damage. For funds that will not be drawn up if these 11 projects are not included, someone is responsible. The damage will be caused because the funds will remain in Europe, the European Community. There will be damage to the country by more than 100 million funds. And as I said yesterday, if the mayor received 4 months in prison for 400 euros in damage to the municipal budget, and the mayor who damaged the municipality for a couple of million, he will be given 3 years in prison for a minister who will injure the state for a couple hundred million. I think it's time someone was responsible and the competent minister was aware of that. Now's the time. If these projects are implemented immediately or within a period of a few months, these projects can still be used to resolve all of the funds under the OP ROPI programme from 2007-2013 in a phase. If we wait another six months with this, it won't be possible. And it will come to pass that the funds will not be exhausted and thus the responsibility for it. That is why we are proposing a solution that is fully feasible if the government wants it. We have a path, but we have no will. We, as has already been said here, by the proposaler, can adopt the law, it is our job to make this easier or to find a easier way. The government can adopt regulations, whatever it takes to get rid of these funds, but clearly it does not see it or does not want to see it and there will be great damage. These 11 projects, these 200 million, believe me, will eventually be too small for all the funds to be spent. This is also said by the profession, including those who follow these projects and those who are aware of their responsibilities and fear that they will bear this responsibility. Apparently, their superiors don't realize that. Therefore, gentlemen, do not owe the representatives of the government that the congregations have not done their part. The municipalities did everything necessary and were also encouraged by the government to do so. The municipalities spent between €6 million and €8 million of their own resources on these projects. The parishioners went from house to house to obtain service for these facilities so that they could obtain a building permit. I was one of them myself when I was mayor. Now tell the people who are looking forward to these projects, the people there in Suhi Krajina, where the municipality must make a thousand transports of 8,000 cubic metres of water per year and subsidise the transport of this water, so that this project will not be easy. The route is built, the land bought for water, for a pump, for whatever it takes. Tell the people in Dolenjska, where 60,000 people have to cook at least 50 days a year all the water, because without cooking it, neither salad nor fruit washes, nothing. How much is that? It's a whole new town, all public institutions, schools, kindergartens, and I don't know who else. Cooking is only for 50 days because the competent authority has allowed that, despite the fact that the water is a little cloudy against the rules, it is still not so impeccable. But if we were to stick strictly to the rules, we'd be doing it 150 days a year. Infrastructure that is built if the power outage currently provides water for only 2 hours for 60,000 inhabitants. There has been a lot of effort, a lot of work, and finally, as we have said many times in previous years, it will only be the mayors and the congregations, no one else. And when the funds stay in Europe, it'll be the mayors again, no one else. And here we have shown how all projects can be implemented over the next few years and all the funds can be exhausted. However, the Ministry of Environment and Space should tell the mayors immediately for all projects which they know will not be implemented, that if the projects are not completed by 2015, they will have to complete the projects with their own money in 2016 if they do not do so, that all of the already-absorbed cohesion money will have to be repaid with interest. Is Minister Židan aware that the 30 million projects in Prekmurje are leading to bankruptcy in the municipalities because they will not be carried out because the mayors themselves are not convinced or think they will not be carried out in time according to the progress of the projects, how they are being implemented? Isn't it better to find a solution that's smart for one another and for the other? However, the ministry must not threaten these mayors that we do not yet know what will be the drawback in the new financial perspective – whether co-financing will be 80.85% or 50%. I think that you can negotiate in Brussels, that co-financing will be as much as it has been so far and that a lot of mayors will be willing to agree to the stage in order to be able to carry out all these projects at a normal and high-quality pace. It needs these 11 projects for 200 million this year, if they start within a few months, only a few ten million euros, which could cover the municipalities with their own contributions in their budgets. Thus, we do not need any special money from the integrated budget to start these investments, only it is necessary to have the will of those responsible in the government to do so. And the thing is done. We have seen from this report that the Government has only made a measure and a proposal for a phase, that is to say that the implementation of the phase is possible, but it is only obvious that someone in the rear has other plans with the means of a new financial perspective, as if these projects, which are prepared, are being implemented. Perhaps some projects that have a higher interest than those already prepared are being prepared quietly. I don't see any other reason. The government needs to understand that these projects are prepared to solve the problem, not the problem itself. If he doesn't see it, gentlemen, then the only solution for you up on the balcony is the new government that will see it as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u25	Thank you. Mr Mirko Brulc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u26	Good afternoon, thank you for your word. Otherwise, in the National Assembly, it is not the custom to heal visitors on the balcony, but if the president allows it, a nice greeting is also on my side and leave it alone, the elections will already make their own, such calls as they were today, now here will be a million every hour. I'll get to the point. Today we are discussing the suspension of payments of cohesion funds. In doing so, of course, it must be stressed that it is true that the European Commission has stopped the payment of European funds, but it should be stressed that it is only a temporary suspension of the payment of funds for certain projects. The current suspension of payments from the European budget does not affect the implementation of European co-financed projects. The beneficiaries in the field shall receive regular payments for the activities carried out as payments are made from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. In March, the European Commission informed Slovenia that, as a result of the errors identified in 2012 it is stopping the payments of European cohesion policy funds under the Operational Programme for the Development of Environment and Transport Infrastructure for 2007-2013 – OP ROPI and the Operational Programme for the Strengthening of Regional Development Potentials 2007-2013 – OP RD. However, the problems were caused by the announced projects in 2012 by the other Janša government. With regard to problem-solving, however, it is necessary to return to the past, as some of my predecessors have discussed very easily after their so-called mistakes by this government, Minister of the Jews and many others. It wasn't my intention to go back to history, but it's obviously absolutely necessary. For the first Janša government has fundamentally changed the system of implementation of European projects, which Slovenia has systematically built for six years. For this purpose, it has abolished the established central executing institution, i.e. the Agency for Regional Development. The critical mass of administrative competence, which is not insignificant, which was systematically built from 1998 to 2004, with the help of an efficient European financial and professional support, has been thus destroyed. As a result, decisions were taken with irreparable damage to Slovenia. This segment includes decisions on the allocation of European funds to municipalities for the construction of municipal infrastructure, thus referring to drinking water, waste water, waste management and so on. I will not start demagogies, explain how important drinking water is for all citizens and citizens in this country; it is pointless to discuss this. There's gotta be drinking water. The decisions granted the municipalities the right to European funds without conditions. At that time, Minister Žagar issued three decisions for his former and present municipalities in 2008, for all three eligible segments, namely waste management, waste water disposal and drinking water supply, a total of 30 million. Since there was no progress in the field since they wanted to build in the flood zone, which cannot be authorised, the decision on waste water was extended three times, lastly also in July 2013, always by Ms Monika Kirbiš, previously and now employed in the Municipality of Slovenska Bistrica. The project still does not have an appropriate permit for illegal placement in the premises. Similarly, the decision on drinking water was issued in 2008, including three times the extension, last July 2012, always by Monika Kirbiš, and construction started in 2014, 66 months after the decision was issued. If the decision contained the conditions common to European projects, this decision would have been repealed for at least 60 months, that being from mid-2009 and the funds released for other better prepared projects. I wonder if it's a coincidence or an intention. The rights are granted in such a way that they cannot be withdrawn without the consent of the congregations. Projects amounting to €180 million are already being financed from the domestic budget. Any additional funding from the domestic budget shall mean an increase in public financial expenditure and a departure from the framework for balancing public finances. The system set up by Mrs Kirbiš from 2007 which prevents the Government from withdrawing rights for projects that are not being implemented properly, which, according to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, for a total of at least 50 million – at least contributes to the fiscal imbalance of the country's budget. And now, finally, the general financial crisis forces us into a different, certainly more transparent planning and also the use of European funds. How is it possible to solve the situation? The Minister for Agriculture and the Environment has made a personal commitment to verify all possible solutions to enable the financing of projects in any way. Therefore, in the Social Democracy Party, we hope and expect that the Government, with the competent mayors in the local community, will once again review all approved projects from a phased point of view. The Government should also check the possibility of transferring unused cohesion funds from other areas within the framework of the OP ROPI to the environment. It should also check the possibility of funding these projects under the new financial perspective. The work of the projects in stock will have to be our practice, and if we have projects designed for a new financial perspective, this is only commendable. In Social Democracy, we believe that the proper approach of the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment is to find all possible solutions for important environmental projects. These projects are needed from the point of view of the construction of missing water systems for the people of Slovenia who do not yet have the public goods provided, such as water. Of course, it is a shame that the other Janšev government has unconditionally allocated 180 million budgetary resources to finance similar projects. The problem is that municipalities have embarked on the preparation of projects at a higher level than is available. The reserve money was divided into other projects that had the advantage. Of course, this was done in 2012 under the second Janša government. Despite all the problems caused by the wrong decisions of other governments, the Social Democrats expect the Government to find all possible solutions to the situation in order to achieve the goal, which is to provide all our citizens and citizens with healthy drinking water. It may be difficult to understand that the Government cannot provide 35 million, only 35 million, to obtain 200 million European funds. But do you know how many similar projects can be listed? Who will tell citizens and citizens that in the event of an accident they will not be properly dealt with because we do not have the money to build emergency centres in Slovenia. This is, for example, one similar example of not listing them. Unfortunately, we are not such a rich country that we can save everyone in the shortest possible time. Who's to blame, we know. From those tycoons, and so on, who robbed our banks, so I don't list any other combinations now. Look, we are in a pre-election period, so we will also receive many performances here in Parliament that will be very popular. However, far from the financial reality of this state treasury, unfortunately. This is what the mayors know best, and that is why even during the pre-election period in recent years they have always been very careful and do not build things in the clouds. For all the things that we are talking about today, it is necessary to seriously negotiate, find solutions – not easily to say, 'No, the project will not' – and to draw as much European funds as possible in the long run. We will do our best to be successful here with the mayors, those 11 plus 7 and many others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u27	Thank you, too. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and are moving on to the general debate of Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. Before I give the floor to the Members and Members of Parliament, he wants to speak to the proposer, Mag. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u28	Your Honor, thank you very much. The aim of the proponents was not a pre-election performance that we have just heard here, but it was how to solve the 11 projects that, with the Ministry of Environment and Space, were actually carried through all stages of the procedure, led to a legal building permit and a selection of operators. And now these 11 projects, with a lot of mayors sitting on the balcony, are waiting for confirmation. And it is not the responsibility of any Yanshe government from any mandate, not the first or the second, therefore the inoperability of this current government is to blame. And as much as you want to politicize and throw up guilt on someone else, it just isn't true and it won't hold. And more. Minister Židan, who is responsible for these water supply projects today, has always convinced and deceived the mayors that these projects will be done, but the government has sent an opinion at this point, from which it is very clear that the money in the previous financial perspective is not there, but in the future it is too small and that it can be wiped out under their noses for these projects. That's irresponsible. That's what we're warning you about. Because if we sum up spending rights for water projects from the financial perspective 2007-2013 and from the draft operational programme for the current financial perspective 2014-2020, it is clear, respected, that the money for these projects that are being implemented, which have decisions, and those 11 plus 7 projects that are currently awaiting are not enough. And, respectable, the responsibility of the current and no previous government is to provide sufficient funds or to say that it will not finance these projects. It's just these two options. And the government doesn't do one or the other. It does not clearly tell the Mayor that it will not implement these projects, but at the same time does not provide sufficient resources in the Operational Programme for the Environment and Transport Infrastructure for the Waterworks in order to make these investments. Once again, you will not benefit from politicisation, the search for culprits in 2004, in an agency or without an agency, in Mrs Kirbiš, who sometimes led cohesion policy, and so on. Your Honor, once again, let yourself be aware that people don't swallow this nonsense of yours when you say it with your finger back. People expect healthy drinking water because it is also their constitutional right. And let us give them this constitutional right with modern water supply, ready to do so, and also to ensure it. These plumbing have to be done anyway. Does anyone think otherwise? Tell me! Do you think we don't need any of the plumbing in this country? No, you've decided on other priorities. You have decided that some other infrastructure project is more important than this pipeline and that is why you have alocate more resources in the context of environmental and transport infrastructure to some other segment. Tell it truthfully, loud and clear! And that water supply is in another priority. It's not top priority. I was the mayor of the municipality myself for two years, and I know that in all the strategic documents of the municipality we had water supply as our first priority. First, people need water, then asphalt, then public lighting or sidewalks or something. That's what happened. I believe that was the case in most congregations. And here we have 11 projects that could start and not start. We also propose solutions. I'll tell you again. We also propose that, for projects that are being implemented, which already have decisions, the phase should be set out to be partially financed in the next financial perspective and that projects should be approved and released for these funds which will be withdrawn into the next financial perspective. And then in both financial perspectives, we cover the financial costs of all these projects. Of course, additional allocations should be made under the operational programme of the missing funds in the financial perspective 2013-2020. That's the solution. It is possible, but it is true that there is only one problem — that it collides with already divided money. Gentlemen have already divided the money, probably the projects, and they don't want to give it up. And they're coloring our glasses, because we would, but we can't, and so on. Yes, you can. Look, don't underestimate us, we've been doing this for a while and we know what's possible and what's not possible. And we know he's not in the mood. Dear Mrs Potrata, we have drawn on the European resources of tourism infrastructure in the first year of the financial perspective. When Mr Lahovnik came to the government in 2008 as Minister of Economy, 2007-2013 was a financial perspective, he found that he had nothing left to draw on in the tourist infrastructure, because we had already exhausted everything. That's right. However, you have so far exhausted resources, and here the gentleman has said before me that the problem was in 2004, with the party representing him leading the government three years after that, ranging from 2008 to 2011 and now from one year, but the problem is in 2004. I mean, that's probably what your baby doesn't believe anymore. I don't know how many years you're going to be guilty of your failures on the government of Janshe. Like parrots, you're all honking and talking to other people. That won't solve these projects.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. Visac. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. The first is Mr Jakob Preseknik, followed by Mr Jožef Horvat, Robert Hrvat and Samo Bevk. Mr. Jacob the Presbyterian, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u30	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Mr Minister, Madam Secretary of State with a co-worker, colleague and colleague, everyone's welcome! I will not go into history, at least this year, because we have already heard how many debates have already been on individual committees. Already in February on two committees. And here I am thinking of stopping a little bit more, i.e. on the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment, if I shorten his name. On Wednesday, we proposed four, five conclusions from the SLS and New Slovenia groups, and then we adopted three conclusions from the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment. I am convinced that those decisions proposed by the Minister and adopted by the Committee have a certain weight and I think that the conclusions adopted by the Committee at its meeting also have a certain weight. Regrettably, the next day the government overrun these conclusions, as colleagues said, to the extent previously. Of course I can confirm that, too. Although the issue of drawing on European funds from the 2007-2013 programming period in the field of environmental infrastructure and others is on the agenda, today the issue of the construction of individual water systems in the Republic of Slovenia is the main issue at this meeting. Those who were first in line, who are built-in, who have all the relevant decisions and those who are also ready, who are waiting and whose fate is still quite unknown at this time. We are all aware that one initiative to change the constitution has also been given to us, which would have been enshrined in the Constitution, that the right to healthy drinking water is the right of every citizen and the provision of healthy drinking water without the privatisation of supply systems. This is one basis and, of course, we are well aware that healthy drinking water and proper wastewater treatment must be provided throughout Slovenia. When I look at these conclusions adopted by the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment, they go mainly two or three ways. With one decision, we have proposed to the Government to check all approved phased projects with competent mayors or local communities. I agree that a phase cannot, of course, be the end of one part of one day, but a phase that ensures the functioning of a system to some extent. With this addition, however, it is necessary to strain all forces and plan in such a way that the next, second or any stage is already ahead, the one that will not be carried out in this financial perspective, transferred to the next financial perspective 2014-2020. This was one such conclusion, and I must say that even in a four-hour debate, there was great unity for such conclusions, both in the coalition and in the opposition, as well as for at least part of the government's representatives headed by the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment. The second or third conclusion that the Government should verify the possibility of transferring the planned unused cohesion funds from other areas within the framework of the OP ROPI to the environment. The fact is that birds are chirping that in some areas these resources will not be used and that if we or the Government do so in a timely manner and transfer them in a timely manner, the possibility of implementing these environmental projects will be significantly greater. I support these conclusions adopted by the Committee yesterday, some of them still try to correct today's drafters, colleagues from the SDS. Well, I don't have a problem with these conclusions. Of course, with the conclusions proposed today by the coalition, I have a little problem and I think that they are slightly diluting yesterday's conclusions on the Committee on the Economy. So, yes, these decisions need to be adopted, but, of course, it must be borne in mind that the National Assembly is not the one who is now operationally concerned that these projects will be implemented, as we therefore have a government, an appropriate government service and a local community. I'm sure if, as we say, you take these projects together and you run them wisely so that they can be carried out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Joseph Horvath is on his way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I will continue with the thought that has been developed before my colleague, Jakob Presečnik. I also argue that the discussions at the very concentrated meetings of the working bodies of the National Assembly and also today at the meeting of the National Assembly are, in fact, somewhat converging, that we are all united, that every effort must be made to actually draw on the cohesion funds that are ready for us for Slovenia. And here I would like to support what I am saying about unity with the conclusions we have also adopted on the Committee on European Union Affairs both on 19 February this year and on 25 March. The European Union Affairs Committee is the one responsible, following a decision taken to quarterly monitor the use of cohesion funds. The report of the Government on the absorption of cohesion funds in the first quarter is already in the house and in early May, as soon as possible, we will of course convene a meeting and examine this report. I am also pleased that we have received very good information from the field on the problems that are on the ground with regard to the implementation of cohesion projects, so on 25 March we adopted a decision and instructed the Government to redistribute the budget resources so that the Government could then adopt these conclusions on 26 March and then Mr Dejan Židan could sign the co-financing contracts in front of the cameras. I wish there were a lot more. And I expect it to be. I find that the climate is slightly better than in those days when Minister Gregor Virant said that they have so many municipalities in Pomurje that their project Pomurski voivodship failed. And that's what the minister says when all the co-financing contracts were signed. Of course, I have included my forgiveness for such ignorance of the minister, but the climate, which is created in the country, in the media and so on, is certainly not good. And every minister of mine promotes country development projects. And now I'm concluding, unfortunately I don't have much time. With regard to the issue of halting payments of cohesion funds, 185 million. Of course, the commission has concerns. We don't know. If there is a black scenario, we will be able to lose this 185 million, which means that we now need those projects that are, as it were, "ready to go" and we have also somehow underlined them at the meeting of the European Union Affairs Committee and the Committee on the Economy of 19. 2. As soon as possible, tomorrow, tomorrow, start to realize, because otherwise these funds will remain in Brussels and this is not good. And don't forget that municipalities have 70, maybe 80% of all public investments, so we have to have a respectful attitude towards them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u33	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Robert Hrovat's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! I'll continue exactly where my colleague Horvath left off. With respect. The fact is, we have a government minister here today who has no opportunity to speak, all those who have come or have been here before and have had the opportunity to speak, but have left. I believe you've already been given the authority to speak for the government. But the fact is, we have a third session on the same subject today. And now I'm asking you, Your Honor Minister, what's going to happen? Is there going to be money for these projects we're talking about? Because everything else, whatever we want to talk about today and keep talking about it, sucks. To talk, to talk about how to do it, how to do it, how to do it, how to do it, how to do it, and in the end, there will be no effect, and that is the problem, and here I am actually expecting answers as to how things are going to work out. Why is this session necessary today? In March, the European Commission sent a new earring to the government, as it had done so many times before. Payments of cohesion funds are stopped, this is 185 million, and this means a serious risk of liquidity to the State's obligation to beneficiaries of European funds. That's a big problem. That's a big problem, and I want to know who's going to be responsible for this "shamastic" thing. Don't talk about what was done, what wasn't done, tell me who's responsible. Who will be responsible for probably a billion European cohesion funds and others remaining unspent. Who's responsible for this? A billion dollars. Here we are talking about some projects whose values are, say, €350 million gross, these are the 11 projects that the mayors at the two sessions have long and wide explained how thirsty they have been in fact driven across the water. But look, this problem is also represented by these projects that I was talking about – the provision of drinking water, the separation, the treatment of wastewater that is already ready to be carried out, but at the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, which is run by Minister Židan, they claim that there is no money and that there will be no realisation of these projects. This is unacceptable, unacceptable in the fact that these projects were approved, that they had the consent to have all the necessary, but that they should have been misled as of January, when Prime Minister Bratuškov assured them that they would speed things up. And then a cold shower. In April, I think all these municipalities get the decision that there will be no money, that cohesion will not be to be found in their own way. That's irresponsible. This is irresponsible on the part of the Government and, above all, on the part of the Minister of State, Minister of the Jews, who is directly responsible for the use of these funds, which we are talking about today and the previous days. So, in February, Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek promised to speed up the proceedings. Minister Židan informs the mayors that requests for support for these 11 projects in total gross value of €350 million have been rejected. And a week ago, when we had a meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment, Minister Židan, under the pressure of the opposition and all the mayors who were at the meeting, agreed to the conclusions which are binding. He announced that by mid-June he would have resolved the matter. In a week, not in a week, the government runs him over in 12 hours. It's a direct hit. And these projects will not be implemented. That's irresponsible. Let me touch just one segment of these 11 projects, which have been discussed today. One of the projects is the upgrading of the infrastructure of the Central Cleaning Facility in Domžal. This is my end, and I know this very well. See, in the case of a non-implemented upgrade, the Central Cleaning Facility will be placed in front of the fact that it will no longer be able to carry out the activity and the price will have to be increased just for, listen well now, 76% at the expense of citizens and citizens. What are these congregations that are tanning on this Central Cleaner compelled to do? It will have to be done from its own resources. Due to the incompetence of the minister, because of the incompetence of the services that manage these things, our citizens will be deprived of, say, energy rehabilitation of buildings, to pull a few kilometres of sewerage that is missing, we will not be able to replace the pipes and so on. It's gonna cost a few projects. Ilmastics at the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment. And that's unacceptable. And that is why, dear colleagues and colleagues, we need to adopt our conclusions, our recommendations, which go precisely in the direction of implementation of this project. Not just that, all the other 11 and some. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr only Bevk, it will be followed by Katarina Hočevar, Ljubo Žnidar and Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! In the last year's budget, around €185 million was made available in the area of European funding for the whole country. In fact, European funds are the only investment potential that this country currently has at its disposal, but there are a number of problems. At the moment, however, I would not talk about temporary detention of European funds, but I would like to point out, as President of the Committee on Infrastructure and Space, that infrastructure facilities and roads are being placed too slowly into space. Then there are problems with bankruptcy of selected project managers in the field of construction. We have had quite a few such problems in recent years, such as Primorje in the construction of the diocese, which, fortunately for us, is now under construction, and the tunnel is already overturned, then the bankruptcy of Alpina Bau from Austria and the halting of the construction of the Markovac tunnel, so that I will not mention it further. There's a lot of cases like this. There were then and there were difficulties in obtaining land, and then there are long-term audit procedures, which fall on calls on the State Audit Commission as well as on the running lane. Let us remember only the crosses and problems of the continuation of the diocese, which I mentioned earlier, as one of the major projects on the fourth development axis, which has caught another 25 million euro of European funds by hair at the last minute. So the delay in implementing these projects, which are ready, is a great deal, and as a result this means the inability to properly draw on European funds, so my question would be focused on how to improve European funds by putting infrastructure projects into space faster. The third development axis has not yet been implemented. With regard to the 3a development axis at Škofljica, the Natura 2000 decision shifts to a vague future. Then there is the fourth development axis where the previous Janšev government in its last breath cancelled the most ambitious project on this fourth axis, this is the link between Primorsko and Gorenjska, that is, the link between Cerkni and Hotavlja. Fortunately, then, the government of Alenka Bratusek overturned this decision of the previous government. I therefore call on the representatives of the Government to make maximum efforts and improve the use of European funds, because, as we say, this is practically the only investment potential of this country and, above all, will depend on our possible economic recovery, even though the first experts of this law are already showing themselves. However, I regret that the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space has over-reduction of investment funds, because if this reduction did not occur, this ministry and all these projects could certainly generate our further economic development in our country. Nevertheless, it is being built in this area mainly by European means. I should mention only construction on the fourth development axis: reconstruction and modernisation of the road between Želen and Mosto na Soča in the amount of more than €10 million of European funds, the final construction phase in the construction of the bishop’s railway, which we have been waiting for for decades, the construction of Gorenje Vas and the completion of works on the road between Davča and Zalim, which was damaged in the major floods of 2007, which is also an important link for the ski center Cerkno. So, there are quite a few of these projects, I've only talked about projects on the fourth development axis, but they're also elsewhere. There are, of course, very many other projects, especially at local level, at the level of municipalities. Where, I speak for the municipalities, there is no problem in preparing quality projects, of course, drawing on European funds. As an example of such municipalities, I can point out Idrija, where a new water pipeline has been built and the construction of sewerage and cleaning facilities totalling EUR 13 million is completed. In all countries of the European Union, there are similar difficulties in drawing on European funds, and of course there are no problems. If I am wrong, please correct me and put on the table the information on what are comparable situations in other European countries, the Member States of the European Union, in drawing these funds. I'm sure no one's pumping 100%. However, one information or situation is interesting when European funds were drawn up ten years ago. In 2003, for example, the most successful country in Ireland with 391 euro per capita was drawn, which is how much they received statistics from the Brussels Treasury. They were immediately followed by the most successful countries following the withdrawal of Portugal, Greece and Spain. It is Ireland, Portugal, Greece and Spain. In the same year, on the other hand, each resident of the Netherlands and Luxembourg paid 120 euros to the Brussels cash register, which was the highest amount in the European Union. And then, in 2008, there was a big economic and financial crisis. And who were the greatest losers of this crisis? The countries most successful in drawing on European funds are Ireland, Portugal, Greece and Spain. All these countries have almost buried this crisis. Not the Netherlands and Luxembourg. It is said that relying on foreign funds is not necessarily the best; a domestic economy needs to be developed. Our goal, of course, is to make a successful use of resources, as long as our percentage of overall development in the European Union is below 100%. However, our goal must be 120% of Slovenia's development in the long term and, of course, a contribution to the Brussels cash register. They were better at the club together with the Netherlands and Luxembourg than they were at the club with Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. Bevk. Mag. Katarina Hotchevar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, welcome to my side as well! One of the bright salaries of membership that Slovenia is in a group of countries of the European Union is that we have the right to draw on European funds and, for the time being, we are a country when we get more from European small money than we pay it. This opportunity has been open since 2000, when programmes of so-called pre-accession assistance have started and after 13, 14 years, when we are practically learning or have the opportunity to implement this process, of course, we can ask ourselves what is wrong with us, that we still have temporary suspension of payments from the European Union due to irregularities. Was it not really 14 years long enough for us in our official service, in our professional services, and not least in politics to learn that these cases would not exist? Although, as my predecessor has already pointed out, if we are following the reports of the European Commission, of course, we are not alone in this area and are returning to the European budget constants in other countries of the European Union as well as in Slovenia, regardless of who is in power. In 2008, for example, we had to pay back $8.2 million due to irregularities in the area of agricultural subsidies. Now, if I touch today's issue or draw funds from environmental cohesion. We can see that we have completed projects that are in the waiting line and that they are not manufactured that are making a commotion. And the question is, why is it like this, what went wrong? And my question to the Government is why the Republic of Slovenia cannot withdraw rights for projects that are not properly implemented or for which we all find that they will probably not be completed by 2015 when that deadline is from this financial perspective. I also wonder who has made "customer" contracts and decisions that are practically irreparable or cannot be rectified or withdrawn. And I find that we're still having problems with that. Since I am a Member, we have been talking about concession contracts in chimneys when the Government and the ministries – the former or this government – tell us that nothing can be done. We are discussing concessions in forestry. "By 2016, contracts are so made, there is no option." And today in this area again. We have co-financing contracts previously prepared by the Ministry of the Environment, which is now under the responsibility of the Ministry of Environment and Agriculture. We have decisions on the allocation of funds prepared by the managing authority, which is now or at that time under the responsibility of the economic minister. And now I'm asking you, tell me what organizational unit the officials with the name and surname have made these contracts. If the problem of the employment contract is, for example, in 2008 at some ministry, I could have done the same. Let's get ourselves some pure wine! I would also like to know if the problem of this Treaty and the decisions to which officials, or not least to which politicians, were responsible for this, so that this would continue to be a “wrench”. If it started in 2007, and it's still going on in 2011, I mean, how is that?Oh, my God! I was employed by the Agricultural Markets Agency, where we were accredited to distribute European funds for agriculture, and we had to have four-eye control. We had to have a rotation system. Is that not the case in the environment or in other cohesion? That's what I'm asking you. In addition, I would say that our citizens have invested in subordinated bonds, but at least for the time being they have lost these funds. Therefore, I do not understand why no other contracts can be repealed. If that is not true, then I call or ask: Can we really not sit together and see what projects are real and what projects are not? Whether we can get out of different locals and not know any other trenches and say: it is important that we get this money from Europe, whether it goes to the White Country or goes to Prekmurje. This must be our common goal. And if there are treaties — probably the former or the present or the former government — let us at least now talk as people to see what is real and what is not. How can contracts be written in such a way that there is no phase? That in contracts, as I asked myself, only date 2015 and concluded in 2007, the hell! Why isn't it done? This must be by 2009, the next phase by 2011, and we would have seen that if a municipality had not done what was necessary by 2009, the contract could be terminated. I believe in lawyers and ministries. If this isn't real, let's look at everything, both those who have decisions and contracts in that first package, and also there I believe that water and water are important, as are important in these 11 projects initiated by the mayors who sat on the balcony today. So I ask that we all put this populism aside. For Slovenia, the 49 projects, the 180 million in reserve and those waiting are important. Let's take a real look and leave the local elections aside if it's for Slovenia. And let us also stop accusing ourselves of the Butals, because I believe that we all have the same goal — that 248 million, as far as it should be available, will come to Slovenia and anywhere else, to any congregation. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u40	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! What is the purpose of today's session anyway? The purpose of today's meeting is to find solutions to make European cohesion funds more efficient. But the President of the National Assembly himself, Mr Weber, has made sure that today's meeting will not provide a solution. I know the President of the National Assembly has a very important, responsible job. And today is a typical and deliberate example of how to avoid some responsibility, how to confuse responsibility, how to blur a certain resource under which to draw on cohesion funds, and how to protect his client colleague, Mr Jewish Minister. He is the one who should be in this hall today to give clear and constructive answers. And this is a deliberate example of how not to find a solution and it does so in a way that allows such a meeting to actually take place, the President of the National Assembly, Mr Weber. I believe that if Minister Židan were here today, today's meeting would be much more constructive and could be half shorter than it will actually be, as Minister Židan has already proposed on the Committee on Agriculture himself to find a solution, he has also given a date by 15 June, and could therefore confirm certain constructive answers in this regard today. I am very much in respect of the Minister of Economy of Mr Draganjo, who is here today, but this is not his resort. Today, if I say so in my own language, he instead of Minister Jew sets his back here and listens to all these criticisms and all these comments at the expense of the government. All cohesion projects must be implemented and completed within a time limit. Here, the timeframe is very clear and the risk levels of non-implementation of projects must actually be completely eliminated. If I actually single out these 11 plus 7 projects – we say a total of 18 projects that are somehow at risk, on whether or not and how to implement these projects – there is no doubt. These projects are not at the beginning, these projects are already under way and these projects absolutely need to be completed and brought to an end. I've heard some solutions that maybe not all the means will be used for transport, and then we can move on and on. There's too many "cheese" in here. Do you know what responsibility is? To give solutions. Either these solutions are or they're not. For me, the solution is to phase out projects in the first phase of this financial perspective, but the government is responsible for ensuring that the second phase is also implemented. This guarantee is expected by the mayors, who run these projects and at the risk of ensuring it by Mr Židan, the mayors and municipalities will not be able to go, so that responsibility, responsibility, is very clear. May the Lord of the Jews here answer clearly and loudly. And there's no time. Answers must be given today that these ongoing projects do not mean that projects are taking place, that the construction part of the economy is doing its work and that these projects are being completed.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Žnidar. Mr. Franz Pukšič is next, then Lucky Meh, mag. Ivan Vogrin and Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Secretary of State! My colleague Katarina was talking about responsibility. Yes, I hope that in the government coalition you looked at something under responsibility when we received from Brussels the suspension of payment of selected projects from cohesion funds. So, what's the problem? It is obvious that there was no control that the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the supervision of the budget operating in the Ministry of Finance did not operate, that it was not apparent that the supervision of the management body was not working and, of course, the stupidest that the supervision of construction works should not have been performed by those who were not in the Engineering Chamber. But you didn't do a background check, because if you did, and you tried to figure out who did it, maybe you should cut back a little bit. Thus, since 2009, we have been alerting the then Pahor's government and the Minister for Local Self-Government, who has actually taken over the portfolio in the Pahor's Government, and then came by the Court of Auditors to identify some huge problems and mistakes, and I do not know what, exactly on the regional development programmes, has occurred in the development of regions where they are now maximally exploited and exhausted. At that time, you or that Pahor government wanted to impose some responsibility on former Minister Žagar, who carried out – or the whole government, not only him, but he was responsible for more than 1.5 billion Euros of calls. In one year. And there, of course, was one very clever lady, who is perhaps still very much like this today, mag. Mr Andrej Jerina, who, despite a political agreement between ministers and despite an agreement with the director of the Directorate-General for Regional Policy at the European Commission, agreed on how to proceed with the drawdown of funds. But that very day, the lady picked up the phone and, of course, intervened politically. Mr Henrik Gjerkeš went mad and then wrote a letter to the Minister of Finance, Minister Gaspari and the Secretary of State in the Cabinet of the Prime Minister, Rad Genoriu, specifically stressing that it was "an intervention in the area under the competence of the SVRL, and that Mrs Jerina also undisputedly took political responsibility for the possible consequences arising from this act". And that, of course, goes on. Today, this lady, the Secretary of State, is preparing, together with the Minister of the Jews – who is doing one thing, just like in the SD and in the coalition used all the time – a law on forestry in order to destroy the Agency for Agricultural Markets. Talking about using resources from this perspective, not optimal, is catastrophic. It's essentially catastrophic, given the data we have. Well, Mrs Katarina, if you want to contribute further to the end of this term, for which I think it would be best to end today, not tomorrow – we can really have elections if you are in the coalition for, if you still hold what you said or have eaten that word – then the only thing we can talk about and do together, using European funds, is that these projects will be implemented and that this money will come to Slovenia. What is the purpose of such interventions? Like I said, whether to discredit the former minister or, of course, to prevent funds and wait, because then in 2010, local elections will be held so that you can share a little with your own when you see in which municipalities your mayors will be elected. You know, that's not right, that's not how it's done and, of course, that's a shame for this country. Well, look, it's a fresh thing, isn't it? The President of the Government boasted, but thank God that this would happen, and that only the next quarter and more and more, because this would be good for the country, growth in economic growth. But look why it happened. Not because of any reform, but because of the use of European funds in 2013. Why is that? Yes, because it was bathing and plowing in 2012. Then you can get married next year. This is what every farmer knows that he must first shine, then sow the wheat, and only after he sprinkles, of course, does the harvest come to an end. At the time, as our colleagues have already said, when we were in the government in 2012, we issued 20 decisions for more than €461 million in transport and the environment, one year earlier, in the Pahor government, there were only 9 decisions for 213 million. Then there was an energy recovery of 27 million. Then, in 2012, there was €489 million in environment, transport and sustainable energy use, and one year ago, when you were from SD 29 here, when you were the largest government party, just for a few 275 million and so on. Moreover, our government then also released additional funds for the 500 million euro circus for the volume of investments. You know, this is important. Look, that's what we're talking about now. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and the general budget of the Union and the general budget of the Union and the general budget of the Union and the general budget of the Union and the general budget of the Union and the general budget of the Union and the general budget of the Union and the general budget of the Union and the That's your job. But if not, we need to press charges against everything from Prime Minister Pahor back to all those who participated in this fairground. But as for the new perspective, we're falling behind, we're standing there, nothing's happening again. Of course, it's the most catastrophic. This is your duty, not just to ignore you from the government I'm on the work force. We have agreed on the Committee on European Affairs to establish an operational programme for the two cohesion regions. That's what we do in marriage. Then change the law. Why don't you do it? Because you don't hope. Because you're saying something and then you're doing something completely different. If this does not happen, if you do not prepare an operational programme – I think you should give it up by June – if you make only one, the next government coalition will change this 100% because no one will let you take it out of one bag again and mainly put it where the most developed regions are. What does SD help me? We have a secretary of state, ministers from down there, and I don't know what they're crying about on the one hand on Ptuj, and they're walking around about how state institutions are closing down, and here their MPs are lifting their hands and feet together, just to get the whole village shut down. I don't know what's left in the end. Jankovic and Ljubljana. We in the Slovenian People's Party, I will support the conclusions myself, I suggest we do so. Let this be the end of this term. Let's go to elections and farewell. On July 13th in the elections, and then those who are still trusted by people who, when they speak, have even done so when they have the opportunity will come back, or else more than 60% will always take the dump of political history.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u43	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Happy Meh's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u44	You know, man smiles here and there, and I believe that even when I say so myself, someone smiles. First of all, I would say that the closure of the funds was due to projects and everything that happened in 2012. But for this moment, it doesn't matter at all, because everything has to be done to respond and that we can draw these funds forward. And according to the government's assurances, they did it, and I believe we can pump it. The next question that I see is, as someone has asked, why is the Committee on the Economy a working mother? The President of the National Assembly replied. He said that this was because the decision on the organisation of working bodies was such that it was the work area of the Committee on the Economy. And so yesterday, as a mother labourer, we considered and adopted the necessary conclusions. There was a lot of talk today about whether the mayors were doing their job. Someone was talking in the same breath about mayors being the best cases in the congregation, how they draw funds, and then in another context, he was talking about that we have 200 million or 400 million projects that are not going to be implemented. These two, ladies and gentlemen, are not working together. As everywhere else, we have mayors and municipalities who are able to draw on funds that have documents that have staff and work, but of course we also have municipalities and mayors who do not. There's no difference here between any other categories. But there's something else I'd like to talk to you about. Of course, we could speak because there are various signs here that in the congregation where I live, we have absorbed all the necessary resources, done all the projects, and that we will draw them, and that we will certainly draw them to the place, but that would not be correct. In fact, I like it, although it is not hygienic that former ministers, former secretaries of state, who probably did not do enough in their mandate, have not done everything you could to benefit properly from all we are talking about in terms of European funds, so that these funds could be used to make it better, so that it can be good, you are teaching today and you are asking the current government to correct everything that we have not been able to do since 2007 to date. But this seems unhygienic, unfair, but it is true that this is the last period where we have to do everything that needs to be done. What is the problem, in fact? First of all, the problem is to draw on the funds, whether we can draw on them or not. And if the government's representatives have replied that they all have the assurance that the funds will be spent, that even 200 million more resources will be provided by the budget, then it seems to me that this is the first task that we should all put very seriously together. The second is, of course, the phase of projects, which was also proposed, where I think it has provided the Office for European Projects or State Secretary, that the Government will do everything necessary to review which projects are such that they will be completed in time and that they will do everything they can to ensure a phase, is extremely important to us and that this is also the right path. The third is the balance of the budget. It is also a fiscal rule that we have and a debate on the budget – how to provide funds in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Because you are the proponents that you have proposed to be in charge of these 200 missing millions, and for 50 and 35, in fact, the exceptional critics of what the Government on the other side of the work and we know that the Government does not rent loans and funds to fix the banking system out of its own or any other desire, but that it was one of the conditions under which we have saved Slovenia and with which we are in a relatively safe area today. That's why I think we're criticizing someone on one side because they're taking credit because they're working, and on the other hand, we say, take more credit so that we can satisfy those projects that we're supposed to do. And the fourth area, which I think is actually the most important, is the second financial perspective. Another financial perspective is important to me because we should agree here today, in the government or in any other segment, whether the allocation of funds for another financial perspective is good and legal. And when we are talking today about what we would like to do with 11 projects and 7 others, which I think are also necessary, of course, we should do just that in order to allow for a different allocation of resources that we can benefit from from from 2014 to 2020, this seems to me to be one of the most important agreements that we should reach in the Slovenian space. This is, of course, an environmental problem, and energy and transport infrastructures, when we need to agree on what solution will be in this segment. And if we today demand that the government provide for these 200 million additional 400 or 500 million in the next perspective, then it seems to me that we should also say that it would be right to redistribute the funds we will get from Europe into individual segments, and if we do not do so, then we will not solve this problem. That is why I feel, or I am sure, that we should first talk about what we are going to do today. All the discussions with which we intervene, all the debates about what someone has not done and what someone has done are, of course, a political game that is here in front of the cameras and all of them talking about how good we are and how bad the others are. In fact, there are no good and there are no bad ones; only the Slovenian government, which has had different compositions since 2007 and has worked as it has done. Of course, I am sure that political connections or orientations could also help with individual projects, but I will not list them. From here on out, every project that is needed and can be placed and implemented must be included in our programme and, of course, implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Visjak as a motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u46	Your Honor! Nothing. I really need to respond to this last debate, with arguments. I really don't know when we're going to stop in Parliament with this manner of talking about history all the time, and then finally we're going to say all the debates back are a political game. The same man. It means he's talking about who did something wrong at some point or didn't do it or did it right, especially for his own option, and then he says that all the debates for back are a political game. I mean, I don't know if we can hear ourselves. I, Sir Meh, recommend that you write your speech for the second time, because once you read it before you read it here to us, you will tear it up because it will sound very unconvincing and unconstant. You talked all the time about history, specifically that stopping the projects was caused by errors in 2012, because it is a total fiction because we know exactly when the calls for these specific projects were and when they were errors, that was 2009 and 2010, that's clearly what you missed, and you're talking about 2012, because you happen to be happy then because there was another Janševa government. Then you said that some of the ministers and state secretaries who are reading this to you today didn't do it, and that's what you said. Is that talking forward or backward? And make sure you're served. I was also personally a minister in just two governments during that period, and I will read you these results. On the operational programme for human resources development, we have by the end of March payments from the budget of 76.35% of spending rights and from the regional fund over 80%. And today we are debating and the point is the OP ROPI operational programme, which is the real development of environmental and transport infrastructure. And don't generalize and throw everything in the same basket. What do we want to say to the proponents? We would like to say that if we continue with the dynamics of the first three months of this year – that is, when the current saddle government knows or hopes that it knows what it is doing – we will not continue with the Operational Programme of Environmental and Transport Infrastructure, about EUR 500 million. The government will now begin to tell us that we will certainly increase the visas for what we have done in the first three months. Because in the first three months we have absorbed about 135 million or, sorry, because I have unfortunately had information about the Operational Programme for the Development of Environmental and Transport Infrastructure of 30. 6th Last year until 31. 3rd this year, in nine months, we have absorbed 135 million euros, i.e. around 15 million euros a month. And if we multiply these 15 million euros a month from 21 months to the end of 2015, then we get 314 million. In fact, we have over 800 million spending rights, which means there will be 500 million left. And we don't want to do that and we want to prove to you that, for God's sake, confirm projects that are "ready to go" so that we can actually pump it. Sorry, it's not that easy to do all the plumbing in a year and a half. Whenever a water pipeline project has ever been carried out, on any of the stranger terrains or rainy days — we have quite a few of them lately, even the sky has cried over the situation in this country — it has actually been relatively difficult. That is why we do not really want to open up wounds from the past, but from the past we can learn to do something better in the future. We are therefore convinced that, given all these arguments, there is really no reason not to let these projects go forward, except for one problem, as I have previously expressed my personal opinion. The problem is that sector ministers, particularly in the area of infrastructure and in the area of agriculture and the environment, have already allocated funds in advance, they know which projects and these concrete 11 projects do not fit in this scheme. This is my only convincing argument why these 11 projects are not being helped. And I'm in real trouble. Dear Mr Dragonja, I am glad that you are here, but those who should give this answer are not here today. So the minister responsible for environmental projects, because we are talking about environmental projects today, and the minister responsible for infrastructure projects. It's called the Minister of Infrastructure and Space. And also the managing authority, the government service for the future financial perspective or the Ministry of Economy for the current financial perspective, is the manager of this, not the decision-maker in the projects. He just sees if there's enough money or not enough money. The Ministry of the Environment sent these 11 projects to the management body or to the Ministry of the Economy for confirmation, the Ministry of the Economy rejected them, not for substantive reasons, but because they said there was no money. And if there's anything in the Jewish minister's pants, he'd be here today telling us. I would say, "Dear Mayors," where these 11 water supply projects belong, "the Ministry of Environment and Agriculture has been driving you through these projects for years and years, ensuring that you've got all the hooks in the space placement process, not least during the approval phase of these projects, has assisted you in this, today we find that there is no money, we've fucked you, I'm sorry, we can't." That would be fair, but Minister Jedhan is hiding. He's not here today to say it. Just a week ago, the Minister of the Jews said, "Yes, we'll do our best, we'll find something, we'll study," and so on. The result is what? The opinion of the government, which is clear. The government's view is that there is no room for these projects in the financial perspective 2007-2013, as with the initial projects plus overcommitment there are already too many projects already approved and projects cannot be welcomed for the current financial perspective 2014-2020 because the operational programme has not yet been adopted. That means nothing. The Minister for Agriculture and the Environment also does not want to provide a guarantee to the mayors because they have come so far with ministerial assistance as to include them in the new operational programme and would give them at least some assurance. "Look, we can't confirm these operations yet, but here you have my assurance that your projects are a priority in the new operational programme, because we helped you to have projects and that they are so far away and that they are necessary and important." No, no, no. He doesn't want to give it either. And respectable when in this country we get tired of populisms, people who talk and do nothing, or even deceive those who want to do something. When? Is it not obvious to everyone, on the basis of two years of bad experience, that someone is incompetent, or do we really need to find out in practice? And in fact, I am increasingly convinced that we are being shot by inefficient people, who are all on the average of promises, they are shaking flowers, you all believe them, and there are no results. And today, respectable, it is still time, today, because we are a year and 9 months away from the end of the financial perspective, to give these projects a green light that they are also made, and to provide these people, both in Dry Krajina and in the area of New Town or Dolenjska, in the region of Koroška, in the region of Ljubljana and from Ljubljana to Postojna and in the area of Gorenjska, with healthy drinking water. But it's not that we believe those who have led us across the water on many occasions. Let us remember the words and promises of Mr Jewish when the real estate tax was adopted. "This is not acceptable for farmers and farming. We will oppose this" when it comes to the rates of taxation of agricultural buildings, not least of all agricultural areas. What happened in the end? This tax rate was adopted, thank God later by the Constitutional Court. Has anyone ever asked this gentleman for his responsibility? He said something, he didn't make it — what? That's what they say. It's a show for the public, but the facts are different. And I have a feeling that these 11 environmental projects are very similar today. That meeting of the Committee on Agriculture a week ago was a public demonstration of how the Minister is working, and I have heard even opposition Members praise him, and the result today is that we have a decision of the Government – "no" of these projects. Look, you can't drink from this. From words and empty promises. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Meh, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u48	I think it would be right to use relatively normal words in Parliament first. The fact that someone "fucks" – okay, that's your vocabulary, that's what you're saying. And this is a picture of you and your reflection on it. I think that you, Madam Vice-President, should react and that this is not how you speak. It's not right. It's not worth it. But this is a manner, because your constant extraordinary sessions, which you refer to in all areas, are intended to do just that: to appear in front of people, to paint people and, of course, to deceive people. You're talking about how good you've been, what you've done in the past. It seems unfair to me to tell you once again that it seems unhygienic — and I have talked about it — that the former ministers, who have certainly not done enough, are here today telling the current government what to do. I think it's unhygienic, that's what I'm talking about. I also, of course, spoke about the fact that the report of the Slovenian Government, those responsible and responsible for this, was such that we would draw on everything, in fact, I can no longer do so as to hear it, and that I also understand and listen to it. The arguments you're making back, the fact that you've now started with the Jewish real estate tax in this debate is a typical picture of what you're doing in the SDS, that you're trying to do just that, every opportunity to take advantage of [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u49	Mr. Meh, I would only remind you that you asked for a replica. The replica means you weren't properly understood. Explain what you did not understand correctly. This is not criticism and controversy with fellow Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u50	Look, Madam Vice President, that's what you do a lot. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u51	I don't do that much. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u52	Because you're not so high up, but [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u53	I have a duty to warn you because that is what the Rules of Procedure say. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u54	We could warn Mr. Visian that when he spoke, he was talking about the Jew and the real estate tax, and you didn't.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u55	In the context of the debate on the credibility of the Minister. I'm asking for a replica, Mr. Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u56	The replica is that Mr Vizjak accused me of speaking backwards, but I was talking about what we have to do today. That he was talking. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u57	And that doesn't mean you spoke for it back?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u58	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u59	That doesn't mean you spoke for it back?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u60	He says I've spoken to you again, and I'm embezzling you here, as Chairman, you don't have this right. [[…]] I'm telling the replica, you're taking my time and that's of course your way. But I'm also able to talk to you here for as long as I'm allowed time, or else it's been three minutes. I would like to say above all that it is a matter of dignity here in the National Assembly and that it would be right to accuse someone of writing, then I think it would be right for you to write it yourself. Whatever I was saying, I was talking about that those projects that have problems, they have them because of 2012 and it's also in the report, and that's why once again I think it's wrong for us to behave that way in the National Assembly. But thank you, Madam Vice President. You often do this, you try to get rid of it when someone talks about it and I'm just wondering how you're going to stop the others who're going to talk today in terms of the replica or something else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Meh. I just warned you what the rules of procedure say, what a replica is. As you, of course, often do this, you have a problem with fellow Members, which is not a replica. You can just have this in your debate, maybe you can make some kind of procedural proposal, but it's not a replica. And that's all I wanted to warn you. But if you have a procedural proposal now, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u62	Madam Vice President, one more time. Mr. Visjak has named me at least three times. Mr Vizjak spoke of the minister, he spoke of the positions I had spoken, and you do not allow me to explain what I meant and to interrupt me. In fact, procedurally, we should focus on the debate that has taken place today. The debate is about cohesion funds and you have not done so.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u63	Well, that wasn't a procedural proposal either, but let's move on. Mr. Visjak as a motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u64	Dear Vice-President, distinguished colleagues, Mr Meh, especially you. Look, I started my previous debate with the conclusion that it would be good to listen to each other at some point and then see that we are in great contradiction with each other. For example, you said – and I repeat this, and I did not deny it with anything – "All the debates for back are a political game". That's what you said, and you actually concluded your debate five or ten minutes ago. Before that, you spoke about the fact that it was the fault to stop these projects, which are an integral part of the material we are talking about today in 2012, although it is not. Then that all the ministers of the past are now the wisest and so forth. And even a bunch of other things when we talk about the past. I just realized that this is not productive and that it is not the purpose of today's applicants for the session. And then I went on to say that the purpose of today's candidates is to arrange these 11 projects, for which the Ministry of these competent mayors, who were with us today, was to point out that they had obtained all the permits, that the projects were made, that they could be implemented, and these were important water projects. And that's why I said it would probably be good if these projects were brought so far that they were also concluded that it would be the only smart thing to do, or that these mayors should be told clearly that they should not count on these projects. That's all. I think it's at least right, and I'm talking about the future, not the past. And in fact, from your debate, Mr Meh, I did not understand any definition of the first or second solution forward, not backward. Let's leave it behind. In return, the culprits will seek out any competent audit or other responsible supervisory institutions or whatever. This is an important part, but today is not the subject of this discussion. Today's discussion is that the year and 9 months before the end of the financial perspective 2007-2013, we will do everything we can to make full use of the available European resources up to the last cent. In particular, funds from the Operational Programme for the Development of Transport and Environment Infrastructure, as they are there by the end of March payments, as far as they can be, only 44 %. And in the year and nine months we have to draw 56% of this, but so far we are 44% in seven years. Everyone knows there's actually a lot of things to do to make it happen. We have projects that are ready, performers selected, I think we can start digging and working tomorrow, and they will have some of these in the economy, people will have some of these because they will be jobs, and most importantly, users will have healthy drinking water because they have defects today. You will probably be digging into the past in a well-known manner and at the same time claiming that all discussions on the past are a political game. I don't want to. I want to look for solutions for the future, because this is crucial and important and the objective of this debate today. Please let me understand. However, that we were concerned in the opposition or in the Slovenian Democratic Party about the current draw, although here the State Secretary, who was responsible for this, was very selective, said that everything was going fine, but not optimally, somehow. Not optimally. We have the word ideal and optimal. It's ideal what can't usually happen. That's true if it all goes together and everything goes great. But optimally, given the situation, it's possible. It itself assessed that, in view of the situation, this pumping did not take place, in particular on the OP ROPI programme. And so there are a number of elements and a number of causes that are also beyond the powers of the Government, but they need to be leased if we want these funds to be pumped or say at the end: "It was his fault, but what we can do, there are resources left in Brussels." As a result, we propose such a system, and in such a way that we continue with these projects in this financial perspective or in the context of the rights of use of the financial perspective 2007-2013, we divide all projects into phases and ensure the rest of the funds in the financial perspective 2014-2020, so as to extend the scope of spending rights for these projects in the operational programme now in the draft. That's what we suggest. And we're focused on the future. I, my dear fellows, ask that we really do not politicize you at every point and that we find solutions. Dear Mr. Brultz, yes, solutions. Only these solutions will have water. Believe me, in the New Town area, in the region of Gorenjska, Postojna or along with Ljubljana, this water will be drank by both your social Democrats and our Slovenian Democrats. They're gonna drink bad or they're gonna drink good. And we're here to drink good water. And I'm asking you to do the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mag. Ivan Vogrin, then Tomaž Lisec, Branko Smodish and Ivan Simčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests! The colleague asked why the Republic of Slovenia could not deprive those who were granted rights and would not be able to implement the project. And somehow it was suggested that the names and surnames of the people responsible should be reached. Why not? Because, in my opinion, Slovenia as a country does not work. This country doesn't work. This government is not working and Parliament is not working. For if we have two kinds of government, state administration, parliament, one that creates the conditions for creation, and the other that owe and raise taxes, what do we do in Slovenia? We owe ourselves very quickly and raise taxes. This means that we are living right now from what we borrow to enter into a slave relationship. The question of who would answer was one of the fellow Members. No one's gonna answer because it's a job. We have the public sector, the state sector, including Members, we have ministers of a dream service in which no one is responsible for anything. Nobody's responsible for anything. Even if 500 million dollars are not spent, no one will answer. What we are doing now, of course, is fighting the consequences of the state's non-action. So also parliaments, governments and state administrations. Of course, it is necessary to find the reasons why the state does not work, why we do not use the funds, why we are so heavily indebted. Of course, the new government service, which is the solution to the government, I will read what economist Jože P. Damian, who has only held on for six months in one of the governments, has been unable to hold on because he probably has too many normal views on the functioning of this country. See what was written in Del De facto in 2012. He said: "Every government brings its own people who, after leaving it, keep their jobs and hibernate until their option is restored. The government is setting up new government services and does not remove existing ones. Or encouraging ministers are strengthening the criteria in some sectors that require more people to be employed in order to meet them." This is our 23-year history, and this country is not working because it doesn't actually have to work because no one calls anyone to account. The number of offices, state officials and so on has nothing to do with how much work it is. I really recommend – Parkinson wrote in 1957 why state bureaucracy is so strong and why it is ineffective. It's a scientific work, it's a scientific work. And I'm going to make a specific point. The state is literally plagued by so-called top-notch experts, by most lawyers who are completely morally and ethically sound in advising three contracting authorities in the same matter. They write expert opinions and studies by order and with such content that the contracting authority is satisfied. I have evidence, I speak on the basis of documentary evidence that one top legal expert advises the National Assembly, advised the local community, the congregation and through a private institute to advise others. My people, where have we brought this country? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Vogrin. Mr. Tomaž Fox, it's your turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u68	Dear Vice President, members of the government, colleagues, colleagues! The building for this meeting is more than enough, questions also, expectations, in particular representatives of local communities, also a great deal, but unfortunately there are few answers or, when I look at them, there are still no answers. Which isn't even weird. With us is the Minister of Economy, who has apparently not yet given him the authority to discuss this agenda item. With us is the secretary of state for the new service, that is, just three months, and he probably has a lot to learn from his professional services or obtain information. There is no Minister for Agriculture and the Environment with us, Mr Jewish. Only then will he show up when he is something beautiful and important or positive to him. Minister Omerzel, Minister of Transport and Infrastructure, prefers to recruit rather than even deal with European funds. The Minister for Local Self-Government doesn't even know where he is, according to his client. Such a sad fact that we are witnessing today at this meeting of the National Assembly, and therefore it is no wonder that the Government comes with such an answer when it says, "We will solve matters, but we have no money." Dearly beloved, there was earlier talk of a stretch — a stretch, not just a word - for - word one, but another. Local communities, in particular the rural areas, which will obviously be wiped out under the nose as a result of the written attitude of this government for important projects for people. As the predecessor, colleague Andrej Vizjak, said before, for the people, regardless of their political affiliation. In short, we have the wrong world in Slovenia. We have congregations to invest, and we have a country that is either unwilling or unlikely to help. It is interesting when the government says that there is no money, and on the other hand, we barely follow all the numbers, especially this year, what we already owe this year. And when we ask Members, especially the opposition, why we owe these 8 billion and a few billion, we almost don't get an answer, except "we threw the money into the banks". Here, where there is talk about 30, 40 million euros, the problem and money for drinking water is not for rural sewerage. Shame, respectable! In order not to be too long, I must say that I am very negatively surprised when I received at the electronic address the amendments to the conclusions of the coalition, by which they wish to delete those most important substantive conclusions. Allow me to read them: "The National Assembly recommends that the Government increase additional spending rights from the financial perspective 2007-2013 as soon as possible." 6. Conclusion: "The National Assembly recommends that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia provide €35 million of its own participation in the 11 projects mentioned above, because only through the collection of value added tax will it receive more than €40 million paid in the state budget." Finally: "The National Assembly recommends to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to allow projects where there is no possibility of completion by the end of the year to be phased into the first part funded by money from the emerging financial perspective and to the second part financed from the financial perspective 2014-2020." The coalition amendments delete these conclusions. Your Honor, good-bye! Welcome to the Butalas! And coalition Members, as an explanation of why they propose deleting these conclusions, write: "The government will look for possible solutions." Possible solutions. If it does, it will, if it doesn't, it won't. It's so easy for this government. Pišmeuhov relationship in all segments, including in the field of European funds drawback. In short, they'd do anything to keep us from doing anything. And if we do not have the operational conclusions that we have proposed in the opposition, in particular the proposers of this extraordinary meeting, the SDS, then you do not have to do anything. For, as we can see, if on the committee Minister Židan himself proposes conclusions, his own government, or perhaps with his blessing, closes the matter in 12 hours and changes the whole matter. And, Your Honor, for once, you decide whether you need more time or you need more money. You're running out of time and money. Money is not, however, because we borrow it abnormally much, after abnormal interest, and it is a question of when to return it. When we discuss how much time we have here, at least that's what it's like to hear from representatives of government species, I hope you're all aware of what the end of the perspective of 2007-2013 means and when it will end. After we had on one side so much Rompomoma regarding real estate tax, where you wanted to take rural and local communities, you have the ideal opportunity to give local communities money, something national, and this would bring a lot of European money. It's the easiest job. But apparently everything else is easier than giving local communities and people what they need as soon as possible. In short, this government, which wants to talk about how it will invest, does not care enough for the Slovenian people to raise European funds and make the investments that are most needed for rural areas, especially for good drinking water. It's a written relationship, and I wonder how long it's been. I hope this fiasco ends as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Branko You are.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. All present, good afternoon! I don't want to repeat myself now, but so many bad words said, that's really a little sad about what's going on here. Because I think that if the government and most often mentioned Minister Dejan Židan had 180 million or more euros, I would be happy to have all the other projects and everything to build. But if I am not mistaken, who was most opposed to the fiscal golden rule – Social Democrats and also Mr Židan. And now that we've adopted this fiscal rule, we'd be borrowing loans. We have to be careful because it's normal for us to be happy to take credit and build all over the place. However, I believe that the government will do everything possible to maximize the amount of cohesion money from Brussels. I'm also sorry that he's manipulating people here who don't have enough drinking water. It is truly sad that today someone does not have drinking water, but we are all to blame, all governments, parliament, even mayors and others. People are the least guilty if they don't have it, so please don't manipulate it. In the end, I'm just going to add one more thing. Of the three opposition parties, Pomurski voivodship was mentioned. Thank God he's Jewish and he's building. It also builds C tape and works smoothly. It was said here that there were some problems. I drive home every day and I see it's running smoothly. Therefore, perhaps I would only ask Mr Bogovic, because he also mentioned the Pomeranian water supply, what bothers him, why it bothers him and also Mr jedan. If Mr Židan now lives in Pomure, it does not mean that we should not be doing C tape and Pomura waterworks in Pomura. Next, Mr Tonin spoke on behalf of the Christian Democrats about the C tape. Are we not citizens of Slovenia in Prleka and do we not have the right to drinking water as in all other places? I don't know. Your Mr. Lach also mentions Pomurje, Pomurski voivodship. Now I don't know if the wrong mayors are in Pomour or why. I think we should all be proud to make such great investments in Pomurje as well, and the inhabitants and residents of Pomurje we were always happy if something was being built and I hope that others too do not mind if something is being built in Pomurje. So once again, indeed, instead of helping the Minister of the Jews and the government and their teams to do as much as possible, we talk about things here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Visjak as a motioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u72	So, Mr. Modesty, obviously we're not listening, that's our problem. We, in fact, want to help the Minister of the Jews. Why? As we propose to increase the resources of the operational water supply programme in its water sector, in the water sector. Not because we want to help Minister Židan, but because we want to help people with whom we are not manipulating us, we are simply warning that they are like Pomurci, or Posavci, or many people of Slovenia who are in the projects of hydraulic improvements and similar to those who are supposed to fall out now, and these are a good part of Dolenjska, Drya Krajina, alongside Ljubljana with Ljubljanica, there to Postojna, Gorenjska and so on. We do not manipulate these people, respectable Mr. Smodish, we only ask you to have the same vats for these people as you have for the Jews Prekmurce. Nothing else. We allow, we do not allow, we think it is right that all Slovenians have the same conditions for life and only one. This is the point of our discussion and not manipulation, Mr. Smodish. I hope this is to be understood. I really want us not to talk about disqualifications of individuals, but to finally do something, not to waste empty words.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u73	Thank you very much. You probably want a replica, Mr. Smelly? Replica. Where were you misunderstood?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I listen to you, and I think that Mr. Židan too, and the entire government is doing the most for the benefit of all people in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u75	As a motioner, once again, Mr. Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u76	I wish I did, too. But the facts show it's not quite like that. However, the fact is that the Government has decided that it has chosen one project and assisted in the preparation of a larger number of projects. The government has also assisted in preparing, specifically, the Ministry of the Environment, these 11 projects, which are now outside. Why? Why not get these on the same denominator as the others? You say that because there is no more money, not in the old and in the new financial perspective, but we say that it is fair to increase spending rights in the new financial perspective, that we will cover these too, because it seems to me that they have a priority in water supply according to any other project that may also be important and necessary for Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Simchich. Just a minute. Then it's Ficko, Krivec and Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u78	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues! Well, let's move from eastern Slovenia a little bit to the clear south, because today, in some words, we have only reached Postojna. I'm talking about today we're talking about investing in the European Union and borrowing the money we need to recapitalise, for a bad bank, for some sins to come back. We're discussing what today? It's about plumbing. We were governed by the ancient Romans and the Italians. Then we're talking about railways, railway infrastructure. Prague – walking, nice, but the government teaches us that there are no phase breakdowns of projects. Phase one is underway. What would happen, is there a sea after Hodhos? Do we have Luke in Hodhos or in Koper? Are we talking about a trans-European connection? Well, these are the sins for back and serious questions that have been decided for something strategic in this country. That's a really serious question for people to come back to. And one more thing, when we talk about projects and when we're talking about some foreign contractors and I'm going to come to my place, do you know when we're interesting? [[…]] Every four years or two, depending on the election. Otherwise, we're not on that map. Illyrian Bistrica operates after thirty years – do you know who does it? GPK Krk. Not KPK commission, but GPK Krk from neighbouring Croatia. Where's the money going? Who's gonna make it? Where's the tax going? What's been going on in Illyrian Bistrica for 20 years is slowly growing and coming to Ljubljana. And I'll be on the highway to Postojna in a few hours. Between Vrhnika and Borovnica is made some third right belt, in Unc there is anti-group sound insulation, the village was created five years ago. In Postojna there is also sound insulation at Ravbarkommanda. And then we come to the end of the world, where the municipality of Pivka begins, as a result Postojna, where we don't have the money to take the highway. And you know what they've decided? We will work with Croatia and we will come to Ribnica, where there are three municipalities, and then we will agree, because there are seven variants. I'm not going to talk about weight, it's Slovenian practice, there's nothing new about it. And if I go back to the suggestions, because I'm not just going to shimphate because I'm not like that by nature. Someone has proposed the formation of laws or legal formal principles to allow those municipalities to draw funds so that, if they have projects and building permits, they can work tomorrow. We must accept this as the National Assembly within the framework of the operational plan. Nothing new. But now we're saving something again and we're shutting it down. When we talk about the next thing here, I'm gonna drop by, and next time I'm not gonna do it again – about new jobs. About tourism and some infrastructure that will result in something. And we've been talking about things that our people have had for 200, 300 years. I'm talking about restoring something, and that's one great regret if we're saying that we have to give people water and the government has problems here. And apparently, there's a phase division of projects going somewhere, but somewhere they can't go. And for closure. The 8 coastal congregations also had water supplies for the Coast. 48 million fell away. Why? Because the state was not a guarantee that it would give the institution and this municipality the means to go into the project. The municipalities, make up your mind and work, and then we'll make a deal. But 2015 will be a bankruptcy of certain municipalities in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u79	Thank you very much. I'd just like to add something, I'd forgotten before. Minister Dragonja has the authority to speak on behalf of the Government at this meeting. Otherwise, it's Mr Branko Ficko's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. The aim of the proposal is good in relation to cohesion funds. Of course, this aims to bring about the realization of these 11 and 18 projects that are ready to be implemented. Of course, too many recommendations have been made these days by the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on the Economy and so on, but there is no operational action. In my opinion, this function had to be taken over by the new government office for cohesion funds, of course in coordination with the competent ministries, since it was also established for this purpose or for this function. Not for bureaucratic action, if nothing is possible and there is no money. Of course, solutions are not proposed. I personally see the problem in two areas. One EU funding for the period 2014-2020 is EUR 342 million at the proposed level of the Ministry of Agriculture. How did they come to this height within the scope of the possibility or what transfers were made within the Ministry according to the priorities themselves? Another problem. The country's contribution of €35 million, which would, of course, be necessary for these investments to start phased. It is true that this money is not in the budget, but this does not mean that all possible transfers within the Ministry are closed. In particular, in the case of water, transfers of the water fund – from 2013 to 2014, 25 million unallocated resources were transferred, not to mention, of course, two thirds of the water fund’s money, which is energy, not water. With us, it looks like the easiest bureaucratic thing to say is "no", we're not looking for a solution. Also an example from the local level, electorate in Murska Sobota, where a request for a refund of EUR 2.2 million is made due to a formal error in energy recovery in the public procurement process. At the same time, of course, it was savings, not excesses. All procedures were supervised by the Ministry of Health, which was not defined for errors at the time, and there were no individual orders to stop, but the KPK did not give a negative opinion, now due to a bureaucratic approach there is no solution, we will put money in one pocket. Of course, in the end, leadership is likely to suffer. I have nothing against the well-intentioned recommendations or decisions of the Advisory and Economic Committee, but, of course, the question is what they can solve for us. The result could only give an operational, constructive approach to the government office in coordination with individual ministries. Again, of course, with the aim of starting all these projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u81	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Daniel Krivec. After him Dr. Ljubica Jelusič and Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to the minister and his team! I've been in this debate for the third time. I have participated in both committees where we have addressed this topic, and I must say that both committees and this meeting have been designed to find a solution together and to find some direction for the government, the ministry and all the services that must somehow seek solutions within this formal complication that has arisen. In order to make quite a few problems with the implementation of the OP ROPI, it was also clear in the past, but I would like to draw attention only to some things that have already been triggered and pointed out in the past by one or another policy option, last in 2009, when the crisis was already forecasting. It was then pointed out by Members that the obligations imposed by the State were significantly shorter in a time-limit than those of other European countries. And at the time, the initiative of both the coalition and the opposition was to negotiate that these arms should be extended in some way – especially regional landfills and cleaning facilities – but there was no hearing. At that time, it was also a proposal on our part to transfer the resolution of regional landfills to the exclusive competence of the Ministry of Environment and Space, and even the then chairman of the Committee, Mrs Pečanova, who understood the matter, supported it. Unfortunately, at the time, the vote was 7 in favour and 7 in favour and the decision was not adopted. That is why we have the most problems on this segment, and we are not actually going to implement these projects, but we are not going to comply with the Directive. Nor is this the worst drawback to the OP ROPI visa for human resources development and regional development, and our initiatives go in this direction so as not to give rise to any fact that the funds under this heading will not be exhausted and in this direction all these efforts have been the basis for committee discussions. The Committee on Agriculture later adopted, even at the initiative of the Minister, similar conclusions as we are dealing with today, regarding the phase and additional guarantees that these projects will also be carried out and that this will draw funds from Europe. Nowhere has it clearly ensured that all these projects will also be implemented, and this means that it is not said that all the funds from these financial perspectives will be exhausted. Before that, there was a lot of talk about statistics and some other things about good and bad mayors and that projects were good and poorly prepared. But in the case of these 11 projects we are talking about projects prepared by the mayors in accordance with all the instructions of all ministries and they have also received all their blessings, if I am very graphic. That doesn't mean they were bad or good, but that, as you all say, "ready to go." And we can't talk about the bad and good mayors, even though I can see that the mayors have already given up on this debate and on this betrayal. Clearly from all the debates and all the answers we have received so far, it is only in some way that the problem is that this government simply does not hope or does not want to provide additional funds in the existing financial perspective. We are talking 2014-2020 and given that this perspective is not yet definitively closed, that the partnership agreement is not signed and that the operational programmes are not concluded, the fact is that this government has a chance to find a solution, which is what you are all talking about. The Minister also spoke about this, proposing conclusions, but he is not with us today to answer that question. And it is clear to all of us that the governing body, in this case the service that is now with the Government, does not have the tools to process these contracts. A key article in this story is that these funds are allocated to these sub-programmes, which actually have projects that are just before implementation, and we cannot close our eyes here before the fact that this government, these ministries and these officials can do so. And here we are not in the same position as previously warned, 2007, 2008, 2012, and so on. That's not true. At this point in time, these funds can be provided in the financial perspective 2014-2020 and thus also provide quality drinking water for all these projects, for which you all see that they are necessary. I don't know what the problem is. How is it obvious to force the government to understand the needs and to understand that these projects are the solution, that funds will also be exhausted? We all understand this, but we do not want to make concrete solutions. It is interesting that the Minister for Agriculture, who, last but not least, is the Vice-President of the Government, has also proposed the same decisions on the Committee on Agriculture. That means he's aware of responsibility. Because if these funds are not exhausted from the old financial perspective, someone will have to be responsible. And you all note that these are the only means that enable development at the moment and that we have projects that have building permits and all the permits that are necessary for implementation, and we will have no delay in drawing this financial perspective and we do not want to understand it. Apparently, another minister in this government is stronger and has already booked his projects and not let them go, but someone has to step up and cut this thing. I think we Members are obliged to draw attention to this, even through such discussions. We're talking about some amounts. On the other hand, when it comes to closing debts created by banks, there is no problem of alocate billions and millions without the conclusions of the National Assembly. In this case, when we have the option, someone shifts and does not have clear visions and decisions to transfer the Circus 200 million to water supply programmes in the financial perspective 2014-2020, thus allowing the quality of cohesion funds to be used, so that consumption does not go out of the previous financial perspective and that these projects, which are necessary, also get their right. On the other hand, there is a debate in this House on the need to place the right to healthy drinking water in the Constitution. I think people are listening to this and on the other hand, they're observing how we can't find the means. And it's not a new assignment to make no mistake. In this financial perspective, which is still in the negotiations, it is only a matter of further redistribution of resources to water supply. I hope that all Members will understand this by the end of the debate, as it turned out to be on the Committee yesterday that everyone is not so misled that they do not understand the key to this problem as well as the solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. Krivec. Dr. Jelusic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u84	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. A nice greeting to all together, especially to all representatives and representatives of the government! In my opening remarks, I would like to say that I will build my debate on the basis of the conduct we have come up with by those Members and Members working on the Committee on European Union Affairs, and we have not addressed these issues, the preparations for this extraordinary meeting. Today, most of you have already been involved in the debate by those who knew the discussions both with the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment and also with the Committee on the Economy, and that is why our discussions are likely to differ slightly. I would also point out that, in fact, it is also a problem for Members on different working bodies to address the issue of the use of European funds. That we, as Government interlocutors, are also representatives of different ministries and that we sometimes have a somewhat scattered feeling about how this system of governance and control over the use of European funds in our country actually works. The truth is also that this system has changed considerably over the years in the past, the responsible ministries have changed, and it can also be a little more difficult to follow the various mistakes that have occurred in the past and in the past governments. I don't think it's hard and it's no big deal if we admit that past governments at some point in the use of European funds have made mistakes when they set up an appropriate management and control system, because they have all tried to achieve the result that would, in terms of organisation, enable the most efficient use of European funds. And that is why I, too, am on the side of all those debaters today, who have stressed in particular the fact that regardless of where we come from, from which end of Slovenia, from which political options, our common goal must nevertheless be to make the most of European funds, and we expect the same from the Government. Regardless of where the Ministry is, in all cases, a body dealing with this drawing, or in the Cabinet of the President of the Government, whether it is a single body or a self-service of the Government, we expect that the common goal is to be as good as possible for all of us and to be able to draw on European funds as successfully as possible. On the Committee on European Union Affairs, we are aware of the fact that, in the framework of today's operational programme, this is the OP ROPI, there have been difficulties in drawing on it in recent years, and the absorption of European funds under this programme has been significantly worse than in the remaining two. The government has constantly warned us that in the first 7 years of the drawdown of these funds there has been insufficient resources and that this has also led to the accumulation of budgetary requirements in the last 2 years of the implementation of this financial perspective, that is, in 2014 and 2015. This means a great deal of pressure on the budget, when it is necessary to ensure own participation and when it is necessary to provide all the resources to ensure that the programme is running at all, waiting for the European Commission to reimburse at some point all the funds invested in our projects at home. It is said that, over a certain period, including this year, the burden of drawing on European funds in our budget is very visible, so very large amounts of resources need to be reserved for this purpose. I would also like to point out that, I hope, with the assistance of the Members and the Committee on European Union Affairs, we have managed to convince the Government this year that, for the needs of the OP ROPI and the projects related both to water supply and to the environment, it has allocated additional resources. There were no redundancies in the 2014 budget, the Government, by its decision of 26 March 2014, granted additional spending rights totalling 103.4 million resources, of which 12.4 million were to be provided for Slovenian participation. These resources were not in the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment this year, and the Government had to seek them in other ministries or within the framework of reserves and enable the Ministry of Agriculture to continue signing co-financing contracts as well as carrying out certain projects. Only a critic at the expense of the Government and the Ministry of Agriculture today cannot speak, but it is true that when we reached the first goal, that is, this 12.4 million participation, we felt that this path was easy and that is why we are now expecting or some expect that it is also possible to provide funds for the remaining 11 projects waiting for the so-called second cut of additional spending rights. Unfortunately, the report prepared by the Government for the first quarter of the European cohesion policy draw-up this year, i.e. for the period January 2014-March 2014, states that the Government will not be able to deal with these 11 applications in the context of the ongoing or emerging perspectives 2007-2013 but will obviously have to be translated into the future perspective, i.e. 2014-2020. I therefore understand the difficulties the government is in if, within the current perspective, it is necessary to seek additional resources, in particular taking into account the fact that it is necessary to negotiate with municipalities which received certain decisions in 2007 without having to foresee the phased implementation of projects. Now, however, this government is placed in a situation where it has to negotiate backwards and force these municipalities to possibly bring their projects into phase and thus perhaps save some resources that could be subsequently allocated to these 11 projects, which are under additional spending rights. If the government realizes that this is not possible, we will probably all have to agree together so that these projects can be drawn from a new financial perspective. Here, too, I am on the side of all those who today claim that it would be right to securely provide funds in the new financial perspective for these 11 projects, and that this does not place some new conditions, including the conditions for re-examination of environmental impact assessments and more. In short, it would be wise for the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment to monitor these 11 projects in the past and to ensure that they are adequately prepared for a possible implementation decision, then it would probably be correct to adopt them into a new financial perspective under the conditions under which they have been led so far. There's something else I'd like to say about these mistakes in the past. My colleague Pukšič mentioned the criminal charges, which were – I am glad that he is now with us – that for all those who have caused the failure to use European funds in the past, it is necessary to find the level of guilt and also to file the necessary criminal charges if this proves necessary. And when you were talking about who all these criminal charges should be, you started with President Pahor and beyond. I would say that, for the government led by President Pahor, he will certainly assume his share of responsibility and would point to what we have been having problems with today, namely that the key problems with the non-use or poor use of European funds are linked to the way in which decisions are issued in 2007. However, some of you jump up when you hear certain anniversaries, and you think it is necessary to jump into the defense of the governments that ruled at the time, all of us who were once in the governments, must take responsibility for our time, and there is no way to get rid of the responsibility for the fact that certain decisions were issued without building permits and without phases right in 2007. This and, of course, the extension of these contracts on the same inadequate grounds later caused major problems that the current government has. So, if complaints are needed, then let them go back to all those who have blamed the poor use of European funds, and again, I also point out that we must not generalise the use of funds on all operational programmes as if it were a poor pump. Some discussers today have said that it is not possible to generalise that the two operational programmes, which are very good – or at least one – because almost all of the resources have been used on human resources, are not very good at the development of the regions, but very good – and that we must be concerned only about the situation that is currently taking place in the operational programme concerning environmental infrastructure. I would like to conclude my thinking by hoping that we will continue to discuss the use and use of European funds in the way we have set up within the Committee on European Union Affairs, by monitoring or listening for a fourth year to monitor and monitor the Government's reports on how these processes are taking place and that we can also, at a legal moment, further draw attention to the possibilities that the Government could have in these appropriate future drawing paths. And just for the end. One of the discussers first asked what was the subject of today’s discussion. I would like to point out, because of all those accompanying us today, that the subject of today's debate, as it has been convened and as it seems at first sight, is not what we are discussing all day. The reference to this meeting has been made and also has the title of the Proposal for a Recommendation concerning the suspension of payments of cohesion funds. In this regard, all the additional documents annexed to this request for an extraordinary meeting shall also be attached. Everyone is talking about the problem of 185 million funds held in Brussels. In this regard, in my view, the Government has provided a very good and very constructive response to all its efforts to reach these 185 million, gradually, in stages, first of all for those intermediate requests that were not among the projects that were obviously guided by some of the auditors found errors, and then, of course, by correcting errors in these projects, disputed projects, so that the total amount of funds could then possibly be reached. It is interesting, however, that I do not hear much criticism in this account today in the discussions. I wonder why there is no longer a problem of 185 million retained funds. Maybe because that was just the reason why we were really talking about another topic. 185 million resources will not be able to be saved by Parliament. In Brussels, the Government, the Head of the Development Service and the European Cohesion Fund, will have to negotiate and possibly someone else on behalf of the Government. We parliamentarians in Brussels will not be looking for these detained 185 million. It is true, however, that we can contribute to self - criticism when we understand why some projects have failed. That's right. What was probably the true purpose of this meeting was to discuss 11 projects that needed additional spending rights. I think that the debate is of course legitimate, including from this title, but it is right to tell the public honestly that we had a hidden purpose, first to convene a meeting due to the reserved funds in Brussels and then to discuss what we are actually most concerned about in general, and this is how to provide water in some parts of Slovenia with the help of European funds. I would attach this second need, and I would say, with all possible means, let's find the money within the new financial perspective, and let's not forget anything else. We need to make a new financial perspective operational. And that's what I'm personally worried about. So where do we come from with the coordination of the partnership programme and what the operational programmes for the new financial perspective look like and, if necessary, should not be discussed only by the Government and should have the support of the National Assembly. It will be a multi-billion-dollar project and our development over the next seven, eight years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u85	Thank you very much. It is now time for the debate, Mr Franz Breznik, to prepare a Master Jan Jenko for her mag. Branko Grims, then Mr. Marko Pavlišič and after him mag. Majda Potter. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u86	Madam Vice President, thank you very much. I will talk in particular about these seven recommendations that we have proposed today. In particular, I would like to point out once again in Article 6 of these recommendations that in the National Assembly we propose to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to provide EUR 35 million of its own participation in the 11 projects mentioned above, because only through the collection of value added tax in the state budget will it receive more than EUR 40 million paid. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the issue of drawing on European funds is not only what we wrote here in the prepared material, but also has a wider space. From the perspective of 2007-2013, we have an additional 1.7 billion resources open, which we can somehow draw upon. In the second government of Janez Janša, we have somehow provided some economic policy that has distanced itself from the strong indebtedness of this country, but has, above all, sought effects in projects where we can get a relatively small contribution of a lot of multiplier effects, especially in small and medium-sized Slovenian companies. And we have somehow set ourselves on this strategy mainly in terms of the strong, concentrated use of European funds. In one case, which is something special, I will also draw attention to the extremely poor functioning of bureaucracy in Slovenia, the bad functioning of this government. It is a North East Slovenia supply project with healthy, clean drinking water, which took place over the last few years and ended last year. This project went through phase two, phase two didn't actually start. The 1st phase went through Slovenian mountains through municipalities such as Sveti Cerkvenjak, Lenart, Benedict, Jurovski dol and via the municipalities of Duplek, Šentilj and, of course, to the foot of Gornji Radgona. About 45 kilometers of water supply and it was a reconstruction, a total reconstruction of the water supply through the Slovenian Mountains, which was over 40 years old in some legs. We had a whole range of extraordinary conditions, the plumbing was leaking, we had a number of old-fashioned pipes laid down, we had extraordinary costs with repairs and, of course, defective supplies for those who would rejoin this water system. We took this project away, but look at the story. The project was designed and funded by the European Cohesion Fund of 59%, with the participation of municipalities of 27% and the country of 14% through the Ministry of Agriculture. Last year, when the project was completed, the country owes us €5 million. A little less than €5 million. So, just the Ministry of Agriculture. The guardian of the contract at the Ministry of Agriculture sought new and new excuses. At the time of Mr jedan's ministry, no situation was paid for this project. Repeat, not a single situation. I think that they had a crisis meeting a few days ago, and I also asked the question of a letter to Minister Židan, and I did not get a concrete answer. So, what happened? These small municipalities, which have budgets of two and three million euros, the Lenari municipality is perhaps about eight million euros, have now had to borrow short-term loans due to the unprofessional activities of certain people at the Ministry of Agriculture and, above all, to the personal responsibility of Mr Židan. For what should be covered by the Ministry of Agriculture, these municipalities had to take short-term credit to pay off all subcontractors on this project and somehow complete the project. To this day, they have not received these funds. This is the way politics works, one is the adoption of some policies for healthy, clean drinking water and the other for their operational work. And Minister Židan is a typical representative of a great man who fights for healthy clean, drinking water and does not do what he should in operational matters. Of course, I also wish that Prekmurje’s arm develops, and I think that statistics in Prekmurje also show the extreme illness of people whose causes could be unhealthy water and I also support projects in Prekmurje. But I would like to warn Prekmurce that the minister of the Jews has proved to be speaking quite a bit. He likes to appear in front of the cameras, and his operational work is extremely weak. And this is what I point out, the practice we had in the Slovenian Gore. I think that even here the citizens have been extremely threatened, we have had a mixed supply of clean drinking water, but of course we have also had some economic problems. In the municipality of Benedict, the mayor drilled a well years ago, and we also needed water supply about 22 litres per second for future terms in Benedict so that the project could be started. Thus, it was not only a pure supply of the population but also an economic need for clean drinking water. This is recalled in the Slovenian Democratic Party. The extremely poor functioning of the bureaucratic system, some politicians and all those people who could influence the strong use of European funds in line with the old 1.7 billion-euro perspective are responsible that we will not draw on this. And today's session, which we've convened, is heading in this direction. We have seven proposals, recommendations which I think are like some kind of assistance to the Minister, both economic, agricultural and possibly financial ministers, to draw on these funds and also to provide the economy to those small subcontractors who could at this time work on these projects to also ensure an economic existence, an economic existence. And I think we need a small amount of resources to do this, for this second part, which is co-financed from our budget, to draw on these funds. And that was our purpose, that was one sincere purpose, a fair purpose, and for some political talk here in Parliament. These are the goals that we often pursue in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Jana Jenko, who's not in the hall right now. That's why he's got the word "magic." Branko Grimes, who's not in the hall right now. It's mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u88	Thank you, Madam Vice President. That's all I'd say is that I will support the amendments of the four groups of Members. I see this in the Government's opinion, which considers that with 35 million we do not solve the problem, but I would point out that there has been a lot of talk about the phase that if the project notifiers themselves split into stages, no one can force them to do so. But I think it's good that they're planning changes. [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u89	Thank you very much for the debate. The word has magic. Andrej Šircelj, please prepare Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat, Mrs Alenka Jeraj, Mr Jože Tanko, Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Mag. Andrej Shircelj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In fact, in my opinion, the following should be said with regard to the use of European funds. The fact is that the drawbacks are not successful and are not such as to be able to draw all the funds available. In fact, only 66% of the funds we have at our disposal and ultimately, after the provision of the municipalities in particular and after the assurance of those preparing the projects, these projects exist. These projects exist and, on the other hand, they simply stop. I think that, above all, at the level of the government itself, no matter what ministries are dealing with it. At the beginning of the meeting, colleague Han said that things were stopping at the Ministry of Finance. I don't know if he bit his tongue or not, but it must have been some kind of blackout that wasn't exactly a good day, anyway. These funds and these projects deal with a number of offices, many ministries, each in my field and in my opinion the very coordination of this area is poor. Nor am I saying that because now the entire European fund-raising process has moved to the Cabinet of the President of the Government, something better. The fact that we have moved a sector or an area into the Cabinet itself, President of the Government, does not provide automatic assurance that anything will change. There are still other authorities here, there are still powers of others here and I am particularly interested in what will happen at the operational level in the Government, that this will go faster and that it will go more effectively and more successfully. In a very simplistic way, papers or drafts for drawing come to a specific ministry and then keep these papers on a certain table, a certain number of hours, a certain number of days, different interviews are conducted, projects are being prepared, there are some communications, records, filling out forms and so on. And the key to making better use of these funds is certainly also that the overall procedures at the operational level are improving. Which I doubt, however, is that, after all, we have been finding for several years that these procedures are not optimal. I regret that today there are no other ministers responsible for this matter, but, Minister or State Secretary, what will be done in operational procedures to make this more effective. Because I don't think so. She's dealing with the same people. People who have been used to doing the same thing for 20 years, once in one job, once in another job, always a little bit higher, with the same procedures, with the same opinion, a similar opinion, nothing really changes here. And probably something should be done, and I think there's something that needs to be done here in the field of human resources, so that it doesn't just work out of inertia, because it doesn't come anywhere like that. The second question, which I think is extremely important here, is how the congestion of these funds is in Brussels. 185 million euros has been stopped by the Brussels administration due to the battle of non-transparent procedures and the lack of supervision. And I am not satisfied with such a report and how this will happen gradually and so on, as my colleague Jelusičev said. I think that the problem here is more serious and I actually want to know what the operational plan is, what it is, what it is to release, what it actually is to obtain, and what it is to prevent the next funds from being blocked. If we talk in the short term. However, in the long term, of course, what is happening with the strategic projects for the period 2014-2020. We just don't have strategic projects. Why don't we have them? On the one hand, we hear that enough is enough, on the other hand, I wonder what the assistance of various government services is for those projects that could actually go into this financial perspective. I think it's also about drawing these funds in the Slovenian-known way of throwing pollen under each other's feet, so that something isn't done, instead of trying to do something. This is taking too long and this is why Slovenia is losing, which is why we have less investment, which is why we have more unemployed people, which is why we have more debt, a greater deficit, and ultimately everything goes into the burden of citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat, who is now not in the Chamber. Mag. Branko Grimes has a word he doesn't have. Mr. Jože Tanko, not at all. Mr. Franz Jursha, he's not in the hall. Neither did Mr. Richard Branisl. Prepare Mr Zvonko Lah and Mr Brane Golubovic. Here you go, Mr. Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. One more time. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that there is the right path for the implementation of these 11 projects, the right way that we have presented here today, not only me, but also colleague Vizjak, and colleagues from other parties, only if the will is on the government's side. If this is the case, then the Ministry of Environment and Space should immediately contact those investors where they believe projects will not be implemented by the end of 2015. If these investors were to be offered phased construction, and if they were to be assured in some way that co-financed projects would also be from a new financial perspective of equal proportions, believe me, that everyone would be happy to attach this and sign a new decision and thus obtain some funding — not just a few funds — to include these overcommitment projects. We could also look at transport infrastructure, investments in railways, where we believe there is a large reserve, for which projects have not been compensated, because projects should be reported by the end of 2013. All these funds will ensure the start of all 11 projects within one year, by continuing these projects in the new financial perspective. Of course, if we want all these projects, those in the water supply sector, we should somehow get some more resources under the roof of the operational programme, as proposed by a colleague from the People's Party about 450 million. That's all possible only if you want to. Of course, it's quite an operational work. To agree with these investors, which projects will not be completed, in the phase of determining where the border is, where it is built, to what extent, of course, this requires some effort at the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment. I think that this understanding must be found in the government, this will to do so, to resolve these European funds before they fail or before they remain in Brussels. I think it's the responsibility of this government, and we don't have much time for this move, all of us. I am sure that you also understand the members of the coalition and that you will also go into this process and do so for the benefit of that third of the citizens involved in these projects.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Does he also want a representative of the government to have a word at the conclusion? Yes, you do. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. General debates or later on amendments, if you want? Mr. Dragon Method has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members, Madam President! In fact, the issue shows that there is no major gap between both the proposers and the opposition on the need for cohesion funds to be used effectively. In this regard, it is actually a common opinion, because we are all aware that this is very important for the economic recovery and also for the realization of the many projects that are awaiting its realization. The meeting is convened in order to discuss halting the use of cohesion funds and this is the main problem which the Government is currently dealing with. How to achieve the deblocking of these funds, what needs to be done and yesterday on the Committee on the Economy this is also presented in graves, this is also presented in the material and I currently believe that Slovenia's main problem in Brussels is that Slovenia has lost part of its credibility. However, we have lost credibility because a number of shortcomings have been identified in the implementation of projects carried out in the past financial perspective. I think that there have been a number of embezzlement and various errors in the number of projects – the exact figures are given in the Government's work, I think they are more than 30 projects – and that there is a need to make a substantial return from this title, which is actually one of the main reasons why the European Commission has stopped us from pumping, especially in relation to certain shortcomings related to the implementation of the Public Procurement Act. I think that today's discussion has also shown that it is not a problem that we do not have projects. There are many projects, projects are waiting in line, and the problem is that some projects have been either poorly prepared or poorly implemented, so there are practically blocked funds and legal documents on the basis of which rights of use have been granted do not allow these funds to be taken. And responsibility in this part was required. I think that the Government is now looking more closely at solving the situation and already the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which assessed this situation in 2012, has set out how to reduce these risks of drawing on cohesion funds and has granted additional rights of use of €181 million and then an additional €30 million, which in particular reduces the risk of drawing on cohesion funds. The Government's view is that it is essential to focus energy on ensuring the efficient and efficient implementation of projects and that this is in fact the main guarantee that cohesion funds can be used successfully. I also assess that, in fact, the aim of today's extraordinary meeting is to propose additional spending rights for projects that have not yet been included in the old financial perspective and to further reduce, in fact, the risks associated with the efficiency of drawing on cohesion funds. Therefore, there is a government position which has not supported such a proposal, but a number of reasons are, above all, of a public-financial nature, since the Government estimates that the financial leverage created by existing overcommitments is sufficient to allow for an effective absorption of the financial perspective also under the Operational Programme of the ROPI and that an additional increase in expenditure would in fact increase budgetary risks as the allocation of additional allowances would constitute a direct shift towards the set public-financial objectives, in particular as regards the budget deficits in 2014 and 2015. This would also jeopardise the implementation of the stability programme submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Brussels. The new financial perspective for the period 2014-2020 is not yet operationally open. I would therefore like to point out that we cannot talk about the fact that the funds are already being distributed or that the funds are being distributed at this time and that this is why the Government is opposed to the additional rights of use that would be transferred from the old to the new financial perspective. The new financial perspective is at this point in the coordination of the Partnership Agreement and in the preparation of the operational programme submitted to the European Commission, and this operational programme has several so-called programme objectives, on the basis of which the substantive priorities for the further implementation of cohesion policy will then be determined. In particular, I must stress that in the past financial perspective, there has been a great deal of emphasis on environmental and transport infrastructure; in the new financial perspective, there will be a substantive focus mainly on the development of entrepreneurship, the development of the promotion of innovation, social cohesion and employment. This is said to be a certain risk that additional spending rights for the proposed 11 projects amounting to EUR 236 million could not be placed in the new financial perspective from cohesion funds and would put pressure on the integral part of the budget. However, the solution must nevertheless be sought and one of the solutions that has been proposed and that we have already said on the Committee that the Government accepts it is the possibility of a phase in the implementation of projects. The Government Development and European Cohesion Policy Service has prepared a guide for the phased implementation of projects. This will ensure a link between the old and the new financial perspective and will also be operationally possible, but within the framework and in the programming guidelines foreseen by the operational programme for the new financial perspective 2014-2020. And we are now working hard on this solution. The government has promised to adopt this instruction and solutions for phases by 15 June 2014. In this way, we assess that the problems related to the inefficient implementation of certain projects and to the possibility of new candidates entering the existing perspective, or on the basis of the released means, then phased implementation into the new perspective, will also be resolved in a qualitative way and that this situation does not jeopardise an effective and sufficient use of cohesion funds in the final financial perspective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The text is also given by the Magi's proposer. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u96	Your Honor! At the end of this general debate, then I will address the amendments, it is only necessary to stress that today, we have pointed out that the drawdown of European funds from the previous financial perspective 2007-2013, in particular the Operational Programme for the Development of Environment and Transport Infrastructure, does not take place effectively, since in seven years we have absorbed only around 44% of the funds, I am talking about payments from the budget, so we have to draw on them in the next 21 months, which is to say in a few times less time, 56%. It is true that the funds are alloted, it is true that the contracts are signed, and it is true that many contracts are also stuck and complicated. Of course, it is also typical to stop the payment or withdrawal of funds for these 185 million, as the Minister said in his address, and we are also aware of this need for the Government to put an end to this drawdown as soon as possible. But we would like to point out that in these 21 months there may also be a blockade of some other means and there is nothing to help us if they are then six months before the end of the period, that is to say until the end of 2015, unlocked. It'll be too late then. It is therefore a shame that we do not release other projects that are waiting and have all the permits and all the preconditions for them to begin immediately. We have 11 environmental projects, in particular water supply projects, to build better water lines, namely in Dolenjska, Suhi krajina, Bela krajina, in the river Ljubljanica, in Gorenjska. We are aware that these water projects are a priority, regardless of the fact that we have European resources, because they provide healthy drinking water to those who do not yet have it. And even if it happens that it will have to be paid from its own resources, from the integral part of the budget, it is better than people having a few more years not to speak for decades, these problems that they have today. In particular, during the summer of the dry seasons, pipes boil, they drink water; as pipes boil, there are many costs by repairing these pipes, not to mention 40 percent and more water losses in these water ducts. I would therefore like to point out that even if the Government decides not to use the financial perspective 2014-2020 for these water projects in order to be allocated to other projects, such as transport infrastructures, it will be more than clear that we will have to build these projects, i.e. through integrated means, the real resources of the state budget. In short, I don't think there's any risk. Nothing at all. But it's a risk if we don't. The risk is that we may fall short of these 56% of the funds in the Operational Programme for the Development of Environment and Transport Infrastructure and that we do not have about 100 million dollars, since this 56% represents about 800 million euros. 800 million euros have not yet been paid. 800 million euros is a lot of money, and I don't know who will take over, respected by the government, the responsibility if anything breaks down, which you don't know today, and you won't be able to pump through the existing projects and the overcommittee of this money by the end of next year. And at the same time there will be no other overcommitment as we now propose. That's not excluded. I don't think there's a man today who would have hoped to sign that this wouldn't happen. So we have proposed a solution to this issue. And part of the solution is in the will of the Government to provide more resources under the operational programme for the financial perspective 2014-2020 than in the proposal for water projects or projects providing healthy drinking water. Here, honourable colleagues and colleagues, we did not want to talk about the past, because one of the Members said that all the debates were a back-up political game, but he mainly debated back. Here we wanted to talk about how to provide these people with healthy drinking water or environmental projects. Let me also stress that these are not only projects to provide healthy drinking water to people, they are also projects for economic recovery, for new jobs and ultimately for the efficient use of European funds. I am sorry, Minister, that what you find true is that we are all united, that European funds need to be pumped effectively, but we are not all united in how to ensure this by the end of the financial perspective. Therefore, we have proposed some conclusions below. I am pleased that the coalition majority, however, intended to eliminate them, but part of the coalition resisted and we finally voted on the conclusions in terms of our proposals. On the other hand, I am disappointed that with today’s amendments, you are destroying them or putting them back into a double silent atmosphere where, in fact, no one will know what we have accepted. And this will not be the first time in Parliament. Let me point out that we have already had a discussion on this subject on two parliamentary committees in February this year, and we have adopted some silent conclusions there that have not been carried out, and today the problem is the same. Even if today there will be no clear recommendations by Parliament to the Government, nothing will actually change and nothing will happen, and in one year, when a different government is likely to find that again someone is "saribal", and those who have "saribbed" will say that all the debates behind the back are a political game. And so the caravan will go on, and some will be warned. I don't think that's the way. This is a game with not least the almost constitutional right of people to healthy drinking water.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u97	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. We are moving on to the debate on the points and amendments tabled to the supplementary proposal for a recommendation to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments of 29 April 2014 published on the e-club. I am putting to the debate the first point of the supplementary proposal of the recommendation and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Because he doesn't want to, I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the debate on Point 2 of the Complementary Proposal for a Recommendation and the amendments tabled by the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Because he doesn't want to, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate the third point of the supplementary proposal for a recommendation and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I am putting forward a fourth point of the supplementary proposal for a recommendation and an amendment by the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u98	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I think that this is an essential amendment and the key to resolving the situation, if of course we want to solve it. We have two options. We have the first option, or alternative, to adopt the current Government argument, which is simplified as follows: in the financial perspective 2007-2013 we have actually used all and more existing spending rights, so 11 projects that are waiting and are actually ready can no longer be approved because we do not have the resources available. In the financial perspective 2014-2020, we cannot approve them either, because this financial perspective has not yet been operationalised, because we do not have an approved operational programme and we do not have a partnership agreement. Moreover, even though this would have been adopted in its existing form, resources for water projects or for such water supply projects in the draft operational programme are not sufficiently foreseen. Not in the new operational programme either. This means that if the operational programme is adopted in such a resource cut as is now proposed, there is no way to implement these 11 projects, because there is not enough money for this, even in the new financial perspective. Therefore, with this amendment, we propose that the National Assembly recommend to the Government that, in preparing the operational programme for the financial perspective 2013-2020, it also provide sufficient funding for the implementation of projects approved and sent to the management bodies by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment in the role of the intermediate body. This is what I am saying for all those projects that the Ministry of the Environment has recognised as useful, confirmed and sent to the Ministry, or now probably to the Government's European Cohesion Policy Service. It is said that the Government provides sufficient funds for these projects in the operational programme. It is likely that these funds will have to be redistributed, that they will have to be taken somewhere, but, respectfully, the essence of this amendment is whether Members recognize the priority of water supply projects as a real priority or whether it is one of many priorities and actually has the same meaning or weight as other projects, such as on railways or anywhere else. And I think that this is a very important message that can actually ensure the implementation of these projects. For then, if these funds are truly provided in the operational programme, it is immediately possible to include a phase variant. Because then there will be no problems, including those that already have approved projects in full, to agree to the stage that part of the project will be paid from the perspective of 2013-2017, and part from the new perspective, if enough money is available for all approved projects. Today, of course, all who have approved projects reject this because they know that there will not be enough money for them in the new financial perspective. And that's why it's impossible to do that. Therefore, I would like to remind you that this vote will show whether or not we are in favour of the fact that these 11 projects are actually being implemented at least in due course for a few years.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? He does. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I will support this amendment myself, because it goes in the direction of the recommendations that we also proposed on the committee yesterday and everything that my colleague Vizjak said is true. However, I would like to say for all because I know that the majority did not listen to the discussions at today's meeting, but I would like to point out to my fellow Members what you wrote down in this fourth decision, which was voted yesterday on by the Committee on the Economy. So, listen to what you wrote: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia notes that the system for the management and implementation of EU projects in the past did not sufficiently highlight the proper and effective use of European cohesion funds, as it did not allow for the protection of the public financial interest and thus the state budget." "The National Assembly therefore recommends to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia the establishment of a system which, through the competent authority of asset management, will manage as a good host, in order to protect the public interest of the Republic of Slovenia as well as the European Union." What is the interest of the European Union? So we can draw as little as possible. So you are proposing to organise the body by collecting as few funds as possible from the European Union. I don't know if that's the smartest conclusion. Further in this decision, you say: "In the financial perspective 2014-2020, the partnership agreement must be based on achieving results that will increase added value and start-up of the economy and help create new quality jobs." You don't talk about water supply, about 11 projects plus 7, about everything you've always advocated as an emergency, about the fact that even in the constitution you have to write it down. But here you are convinced that we should take care of the European Union's interest in protecting the interests of the European Union. Which way? To draw as little as possible. This is the interest of the European Union. It is obviously not the European Union's interest to give us as much money as possible. You want to protect the interest of the European Union. I do not know how you will be able to confirm such a decision, so I propose that you support the amendment, which has been proposed as basic material also for discussion on the committee and on the content of which also colleague Vizjak spoke, which speaks of recommending that these projects be put in place as a priority, because they all have the necessary permission because they have already been confirmed in certain programmes by the competent authorities. We are all aware that there is not enough funds at this time, but the Government has the opportunity to allocate and draw funds from the European Union, but not as you propose, to protect the interest of the European Union. We could literally write them off so they don't have to give us the money. I hope you don't confirm that.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Of course he does. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u102	On behalf of the government, thank you very much. I would like to express my opposition to the proposed amendment under point 4, tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, for this reason, because the resulting amendment would essentially prejudge the thematic objectives to be defined in the operational programme for the new financial perspective and in this part is a document that is only in the process of developing and needs substantive discussions and priorities as regards thematic objectives.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u103	Thank you very much. As a proponent of mags. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Minister. And I'll be even more sure that it's okay that we suggested it. If, Mr. Secretary, you believe that you, as the Government alone in this world or in Slovenia, are called to set the thematic goals of the new financial perspective, you are deeply wrong. You're making a big mistake. I think it is also Members who have the right and not only the right, but also the duty to tell you what we believe is a priority in regulating this country. And if you are told by Members that the priority in this country is to regulate, or mainly to provide, safe drinking water to people all over Slovenia in the same way or to the greatest extent, it is our duty, not just the right, but that you are reading to us that we are setting thematic goals. Normal! We recommend you do this. Of course, we cannot define this for you because we respect the division of power, but we can recommend something for you. And, Your Honor, we recommend that you respect - I think - the country's priority is in agreement. This is the right of people to healthy drinking water, not to build plumbing in certain parts of Slovenia, to make hydraulic improvements in certain parts of Slovenia, in short, to do what needs to be done, while some are neglected just because the money is running out. Not because we had bad projects, but because the money ran out. I think it's wrong, it's not fair, and it's our duty to warn you of that. Mr. Secretary, allow me one more thing. All those who sit in this work, we go to the elections, we get some confidence from people, and we owe it to you today, and we always tell and tell. And believe me, I will have a very bitter taste if I leave this session today by not saying anything here or even recommending the thematic objectives of the distribution of the new financial perspective, which will, of course, be covered and reflected in the operational programme for the financial perspective 2014-2020, which is under way. So, not only is this our right, I think, respected colleagues, that this is also our duty, so I think it is such a problem to prejudge or further define the thematic objectives, in fact, I deny. It is a recommendation and I think it is a very well-founded and weighty recommendation.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I see interest in the debate. I'm opening an application for debate. So this is the fourth point of the updated proposal for a recommendation and the amendments tabled by the SDS Group. The first one has the word Mr. Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Minister, in this amendment, it is a recommendation that the National Assembly should make to the Government in order to avoid that cohesion funds remain unused and to avoid the responsibility of those responsible in the government for this, the municipalities where the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment has not received a declaration signed that the projects will be completed by 2015 will agree on the phase of these projects so that the projects can be carried out, because if they do not, this money will have to be returned to the municipalities with interest. To make use of these funds, however, are overcommitment projects that are ready and waiting for implementation to begin. All we want with this amendment is a recommendation. However, if you do not see this or are deliberately waiting for it to happen, then it is an injury to the state of Slovenia. The funds that will remain in Brussels, which are ours, will be lost forever. That is all we want with this, and we have said this several times on the Committee on Agriculture and here today. If you don't see it [[…]] It was said by the Ministry of Finance on TV, in the Tarč show that it is not for the European Union to joke. We cannot control this asset in the way we want to, as someone remembers. The funds will stay there and someone will take responsibility. If you are not able, let us speak to some of us who are operatives, and in one month we will do so instead of the ministry with all the documents from the mayors, only if you give us a mandate to promise what can be done by law, what the European Commission has also said is that it can be done in a phase. However, that the operational programme and the partnership agreement have not yet been adopted, I do not know why we have waited for the 16th operational programme in this situation to be drawn up. Sixteenth country in a row. You should be the first to have this confirmed by now.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The following is Mr Jože Tanko's application.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u108	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, we have an extremely large number of experts in government services who are constantly explaining to us how something can't be done. There's no one for this table where the government sits, but there's no one who can tell you how to do it. And that's the key problem. Some have been working on these European funds for decades, some even more, some have been working as officials involved in drawing on European funds for five, seven or more years, and still cannot be done. Those persons who are missing today and are first written, these are Mr jedan and Mrs Jerina, who have been a top-ranking official for some years and in some ways prove that something cannot be done. Always some obstacles, some obstacles. Now I'm just asking the government representatives. Who does this money belong to? Because if it is not possible for what is the primary purpose and for what all procedures have been carried out — to the point of i as far as the Government is concerned — I wonder who this money is intended for. We have had a case where this money was spent in some way inadvertently, where it was also for cohesion projects, but it was for Ljubljana's Stožice by arranging the call. Perhaps any of the government's representatives here should tell who this money is intended for, the Bulgarians, the Romanians, who in Slovenia? What is the company that will be able to receive this selected project, as in optical connections and so on? Are these examples of waiting for extreme options and then making a short call quickly with the pre-arranged users of these funds? I suggest you answer. All that is proposed is related to the normal use of funds. All that the Government is doing, which is hampering this normal, predictable pumping, means that at the end of the day, there is another purpose. Now we want to know what that purpose is. Who is the chosen one, or who are the three chosen ones, who will collect EUR 400 million just before the prospect expires? Right before the pumping runs out. We propose that these are projects for which all procedures are carried out to the source. This may be funny to someone in government services, but this is a cruel reality that is likely to happen, as in the use of sport resources, when Minister Lukšič quickly implemented and packed that call by going 9 million euros for the Stožice instead of infrastructure after Slovenia. We have the same case here. The money is intended for infrastructure in Slovenia, including the Ljubljana Municipality is among these. And then someone will probably make a reservation and take this money away for purely other purposes, under the cover of time distress. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u110	I hope that this addition to point 4 of the Priority will be confirmed, and these proposals will also be adopted. See, the fact is that we presented both operational programmes and thematic objectives to Members of the National Assembly at the time of the first Janša government 2004-2008. You are now a partnership agreement, as far as I know, you must have already sent it to Brussels, and you have not presented it to the members of the National Assembly. Neither are the operational programmes. We said you need to prepare two, not just one, but nothing in sight to introduce them to the members of the National Assembly. You know, you don't go to the polls on that side, you don't answer to people. You sit on a warm "stitch", and we have to provide them with elections.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? He doesn't want to. I conclude the debate on Point 4. I am putting to the debate the 5th item of the Complementary Proposal for a Recommendation and the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National Gazette and the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? He does. As a proponent, mag. A viscous? As a motioner, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u112	Thank you very much. With great anguish, after a few assurances, we adopted yesterday's amendment to the Committee on the Economy by the SDS Group, which is merely a nominally correcting text of the recommendation already in place, which you received along with the material for this extraordinary session. This, of course, also rejected the coalition's amendment to point 5, which now brings this amendment back and wants to override the recommendation adopted by the committee yesterday. And what does the recommendation adopted by the committee yesterday say? The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends, does not require, order, or anything else, in short, to the Government to increase additional spending rights from the financial perspective 2007-2013 as soon as possible and to the projects on hold to sign the grant contracts if all the necessary conditions are met and immediately commence the implementation of the works. This is said, provided that everything is okay, that it is legal and that there are no formal obstacles to doing so. In short, we want to give green light to these 11 projects that are ready, for which the Ministry of Agriculture has also assessed them as real and sent them to the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology for approval. With this, we want – in combination, of course, with the preliminary conclusion, to increase the scope of rights for this purpose in the financial perspective 2014-2020 – to ensure that all water supply projects are implemented and implemented from the cohesion funds of the past and current financial perspectives. What do you suggest, a respected coalition? Instead of this relatively operational decision, which is recommended, you propose: "The National Assembly took note of the state of the cohesion fund draw on the Committee on Agriculture on 22 April, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment and the Service..." Yes, in fact, you say that it is enough that you have become aware of this decision, that you have become familiar with the procedures for drawing European funds. I think that if we want to do something in the future, it is not enough to get to know some back report. And you suggest we draw our conclusion. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that if we want Members to do something good for these environmental projects, it is also right that this recommendation, which we have proposed and which you wish to delete, we accept and therefore do not delete this recommendation.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The word is given by Master Matey Vraničar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Madam President! With regard to point 5 of the recommendations proposed, I would just like to point out that the implementation of this recommendation requires the adoption of a national budget balance. Additional European spending rights can only be allocated in accordance with the Law on the implementation of the budget without a balance on the basis of higher revenue from the drawing-up of European funds, which cannot be the case in a given case. Therefore, additional spending rights can only be guaranteed through the national budget rebalancing. However, it has already been said in the debate that there are no reserves for other funding from the financial perspective, since the funds of the old financial perspective are distributed to a higher extent than the European funds actually provided. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Mr Andrej Vizjak as the proposer, followed by Mr Daniel Krivec. Here you go, mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u116	Yes, Madam Secretary of State, I fully agree with you. But the proposal for a rebalancing should be ahead of us. You've also dropped a property tax. Yeah, sure. One specific resource to cover expenditure and no source of expenditure. And a hand on the heart, for formal reasons, should already draw up a balance, cancel those types of revenues and replace them in the budget with excise revenue and other revenue. If we're formal. Because the source of the real estate tax will be one. Not if the law doesn't apply. Is it? I don't think so. Which means the fall of the real estate tax is definitely an argument that the budget, as adopted this year, cannot be implemented and implemented, because there will be a certain, significant, almost 200 million sources, but there will be others. As you say, you've done some "slicing" in excise goods and so on. Don't tell me the balance isn't necessary. I think it's necessary. If you can just substitute one 200 million source with some other resources and say that the balance is not needed, then you will also be able to offset some of the million expenditure on cohesion funds. That is why I believe that such a recommendation is also a recommendation to you when you make up the balance. That is correct, I agree with you. And if today the National Assembly recommends this to you and you will bring this to Parliament in one month or two, or in fourteen days, there will probably be no problems, because you will say, "Look, Members, this is what you have recommended, we agree with you and this is it." And these projects will be implemented. Once again, we are talking roundly about the reallocation of cohesion funds within two financial perspectives and within one operational programme for the development of OP ROPI. We are not talking about increasing spending rights over everything, but only about concrete priorities for this to happen there. In short, we in the long term, in the medium term, do not owe the country an additional debt, we do not increase the scope of projects and the necessary funding for this, but we simply say that these 11 projects are also a priority and that resources are found in other areas of the same operational programme or area, including those projects. So it will be difficult to hear that we are causing some public finances unacceptable consequences here, in relation to the golden fiscal rule, which we have heard several times today, but we just want to make clear what the priorities in this country are. I think that Parliament is obliged to recommend priority to the Government, but otherwise I do not know what we are doing in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Vrančnik has the floor. Are you going to follow that? Mr. Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. I will not support this amendment itself if this point of recommendation is deleted. I think that the Committee debate yesterday has clearly argued why such a recommendation makes sense and you have also supported it by the coalition Members and I do not know why the amendment to delete the recommendation in this direction is again. We all found yesterday that there must be certain projects that at some point can also replace the outage of the current projects and these 11 "ready to go" makes it possible, and this is also a great safeguard for the country to really draw on these funds. I do not know why such a meaningful recommendation should be deleted from these overall recommendations regarding the payment of cohesion funds. So I hope that, like on the board, you will consider what you are doing in this service. And we did not blind ourselves to the facts that must be fulfilled. And they also made possible what the ministry and all the jobs so far, to all those congregations that followed their instructions, in some way recommended and proved to them through the documents. I think it would be unfair and rude to give them up in some way now. And to admit that for two years or more of these congregations we have deceived by false promises. I don't know how the other MPs have the face to do this. At least by accepting recommendations from the Ministry, the Government and others to give serious consideration to the solutions, I think it is our duty, as has been said.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Vrančnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Once again, it is undeniable that the National Assembly can also recommend to the Government that it prepare a budget rebalancing, but there has been no talk about this today that these recommendations would make it necessary and it seems necessary for Members to know what the recommendation means before deciding. As regards your assessment that the balance sheet would be needed because of the different revenue structure that was planned at the time the budget was adopted, I should point out that an income assessment is being prepared in preparing the budget on the revenue side. And if the actual realisation of income as a whole, not by individual source, deviates from the projected volume by budget, a budget balance should be drawn up. However, if, over the course of the year, the structure of revenues changes, that more than one tax, less another tax, is not needed, the balance is not needed, so I express my disagreement with your assessment earlier that, in order to abolish the property tax, we should urgently prepare a balance. Once again, with regard to spending rights. You, Mr Vizjak, have talked about the rights of consumption from an old or new financial perspective, and I, when I talk about spending rights, which are determined by an annual budget, whether it is an old or a new financial perspective, individual ministries or budget users can only use resources within the framework of the spending rights set out in the adopted budget. And if we were to agree on a rebalancing and not at the same time increase some source for these additional spending rights, that, of course, means an additional deficit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Vizjak as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u122	Yes, because, Madam Secretary of State, I'm sorry that we actually have to argue about budget and technology here in some way, but you're wrong. See, the fall of the real estate tax did not only result in a reallocation on the income side, at least so we Members have heard the coalition and the government. The government has made it very clear that, of course, part of the financial effects of the fallen property tax will be sought with excise duties and so on and part of the expenditure side. You said you'd tighten up 50 million institutions to clean up non-productive expenditure, or I don't know how you told us that, but you said that you were going to compensate for some of these assets, about 50 million, one quarter of the property tax that went down, on the spending side. Is that what you said? I consider your nod to be a confirmation, which means it's not true, as you said earlier, that you're just redistributing the structure of the revenue side, but you're also partially compensating it with the expenditure side, which means that you have for some 50 million more money to spend on the expenditure side. Because you're planning to save 50 million that you have on the spending side right now. Moreover, the argument that you have the right is that there are financial volumes – other items – and this does not increase the deficit. It only increases if the revenue side does not materially come out as planned. So, the balance sheet would be, we both know that, needed and corrected by the fall of the real estate tax in order to very clearly state the consequences on both sides of the budget, both the revenue and the expenditure side, where these 200 million euros will be compensated. And if there is a will to increase the deficit for infrastructure projects that are a contribution to the future, let's say water supply, I'm sorry, I think we're going to find this agreement a lot sooner than we're going to eat these 50 million euros. I have the biggest problem when we're in charge of running expenses. However, I do not have such a problem when we have in mind the use of European funds and when we have such important projects as water supply where it is unregulated. Therefore, take this message as part of this message and not to look for some formalistic reasons why something is not possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u124	Thank you so much for saying that. In my previous explanation, I said that they were coming on behalf of the Government to the National Assembly, representatives who would say why something could not be done. Mrs Vraničareva said that a balance would be needed if the recommendations were adopted, as proposed. Now I'm asking you the following questions. The process of rebalancing in the National Assembly results in a thousand euros in costs and the change brings EUR 240 million into the state budget. So, the rebalancing is the reason we don't do it? If the Government were to act proactively as it should, it should come with such a proposal to the National Assembly, with a proposal for a rebalancing to compensate these matters. It's not like he's citing the budget rebalancing. If that is the only reason, then I will tell everyone honestly now, and we will not say a word at the time of the rebalancing if you bring this change in order to improve the use of European funds. But you know it and don't do it. Why not? They can say that it's kind of bureaucratic assholeism, which costs the country 240 million euros in this case. I suggest that you accept this recommendation and that you come with a budget rebalancing that will save this nonsense, which is a bureaucratic obstacle to the fact that funds are not being drawn.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u125	Mag. Matthew Vrančnik has the word "mag" first. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u126	One more time. First of all, I didn't define myself for or against the recommendation or the amendment. Secondly, I did not say that the recommendation was incorrect because a balance needed to be drawn up for its implementation, but I just wanted to let you know what measures were needed to implement the recommendation.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u127	Do you have a replica, Mr. Tanko? No, no, no. Mag. Andrej Vizjak as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u128	I read in the media today that the country can offer about 150 million euros in concessions to Simobil, Tušmobile and Telekom. And I wonder if this revenue of the state budget is in the budget and if you think it is wise to invest that kind of money in investments that generate higher quality of life and added value to that country.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u129	Mr. Jože Tanko, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u130	Thank you very much. What Mrs Vrančnik said is, in a way, the tragedy of this country when a bureaucratic apparatus decides whether or not we will go to the budget balance or whether we will be able to draw on additional resources that are available or not. That's exactly what we're talking about right now. That's exactly what I'm talking And I am very sorry that we have a government that is not ready to bring about a budget rebalancing can only be at this point in order to achieve this effect that we are talking about. You can come with the budget rebalancing only on this item, not on what is bothering you, but only on this item, so that we will draw on what is meant by this meeting of the National Assembly and the National Assembly and the Government does not cost thousands of euros, because it is a substantial change in the budget 2014 and 2015 to do so. And government officials and even officials are setting up a bureaucratic barrier to improve the use of state funds. It's for the Minister's interpretation, if that's what's going on. And the government at the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u131	Here you go, mag. Andrej Vizjak, as the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u132	I didn't get an answer, and I just want an answer. I think and I'm sure the secretary of state knows the answer to my question. 150 million euros is not change. Has the State budget considered this concession for frequency allocation to operators during this year, and to what extent is this foreseen in the budget? Well, that's just the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u133	Here you go, mag. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u134	This amount is not included in the budget adopted last autumn by the National Assembly. As I said before, an assessment of revenue from individual sources is being prepared on the revenue side of the budget. What is actually coming, which revenue is actually being realised, is evident during the year, but these additional revenues do not mean that expenditure can be increased without a rebalancing. Expenditure shall be maximised at the level set by the adopted budget, as set out in the Global. And I'm not denying the possibility of a rebalancing. I'm just saying what the facts are.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u135	Here you go, mag. Andrej Vizjak, as the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u136	Dear colleagues, the fundamental reason why the government is rejecting the amendments has fallen away. The underlying reason was that there was no money. We have now learned that an additional, unscheduled source of €150 million has come from concessions to grant frequencies to mobile phone operators. Look, I don't know what else to spend this money for, as a priority investment in this country, such as improving water supply, for projects that the Ministry of the Environment, the competent ministry of your minister or, say, all the environmental ministers so far, are considered to be good, perspective, priority projects that need to be done. They are also linked to human health, although we do not have a Minister of Health or a Minister. So whether this is actually a priority against the opposition's proposals, because you really don't have a substantive reason anymore. We will not increase the deficit because we have a resource that we have not planned, which goes beyond what we propose in at least one year. And as the head of our parliamentary group has said, you will have in this part a rebalancing adopted in one minute, because there is probably no hero here if you so choose to oppose such a solution to be taken from concessions and given to water projects or projects to improve water supply. These projects, which are "ready to" go, as well as the distinguished secretary of state, if buried tomorrow, cannot be smoked 150 million euros because those who have ever held a shovel in their hands and watch the donkeys when they work know what they can do and what monthly situations are possible, even if they are working night and day. It is simply necessary to have a few operational immediately available, to work hard and to be lucky with the weather and, of course, to make realisation happen and pay in this year. I agree with you that there is a need for a rebalancing, but I consider the rebalance to be some kind of technique that follows decisions in this national council. After all, we accept the balance, and you propose it. And I don't see any obstacles in this at all, to do so, but as some logical continuation of this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u137	Thank you very much. There's still a desire to discuss it. Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Now if the balance is an obstacle, if the money is available, then it's only a question of who this money is stored for. I have asked this question in one of the previous debates, and I would like, Mr Minister, now you are the highest representative of the government here, to ask for your reply. For whom is the money mentioned? Because it does not even want to accept the removal of the bureaucratic barrier, if it is a rebalance, nor does it want to activate the funds at its disposal. So, who's going to do this if not to these projects? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u139	Thank you very much. I find that no one wants to discuss it anymore, so I am closing the debate on item 5. I am putting to the debate the 6th point of the Complementary Proposal for a Recommendation and the amendments tabled by the PS, SD, DL and DeSUS. Anybody want to talk? If he doesn't want to, I'm closing the debate on Point 6. I am putting forward the 7th item of the Complementary Proposal for a Recommendation and the amendments tabled by the PS, SD, DL and DeSUS. Anybody want to talk? He does. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak as the proposer and then Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u140	Dear colleagues, I am truly sorry, and I hope that we will not do this too often in this Parliament, in order to actually carry out the tasks of the Government. For with these recommendations we have tried to direct the government to solve the problem. We didn't just say that the problem had to be solved, because we said that two months ago, and nothing happened. And we usually hear from the government a lot of times, because if you're just recommending something or you're loading something for us, it's impossible to do that. And we have actually proposed to the government a concrete recipe for how to solve existing projects in the water sector and these new 11 projects that are "ready to go" to be done. In fact, we have found that this can only be done by implementing existing projects phased out, partly from the perspective of 2007-2013 and partly from the perspective of 2014-2020. And that these 11 projects that are waiting are starting to be implemented in a similar way. Therefore, our seventh recommendation suggests that the National Assembly should propose to the Government that projects, where it is not possible to be completed by the end of the year, be phased into the first part funded by the financial perspective 2007-2013 and into the second part financed from the financial perspective 2014-2020. In short, this decision and the earlier one, in the financial perspective of 2014-2020, to provide sufficient resources for everyone to finish is, in fact, the way the wolf is full and the cow is whole. And now we have heard that you also have money for this, this year, not to mention the following year – 150 million euros, respected, for frequencies, thank God that we are on the phone or on the phone so much that operators are willing to pay so much for these frequencies. And this is the source of the state budget available. And once again, respectable, what this resource is better and more useful to spend than for such investments, which not only affect the provision of healthy drinking water to our people, but also the start-up of the economy and new jobs.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u141	Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u142	Thank you. I also do not understand this initiative to delete this recommendation, because this recommendation has even been aligned with the Community of Municipalities and with the Community of Municipalities and as a possible solution has been confirmed even by the Ministry of Environment and Space. That is true is also the proposal that Minister Židan made on the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment. There he proposed in a decision which was cancelled in two days by a decision of the Government to verify all approved projects from a phased point of view and so on. This is the proposal of Minister of the Jews, the same proposal has also been made on our part and has also been adopted on the Committee. And you're deleting it again. But your explanation is stupid, and I'm going to read it because I believe the mayors are listening to it. You explain why this phase recommendation has to be deleted – despite what I said, compliance with the ZOS and SOS and with the Ministry of Environment and Space – say, and this is a great deal of cynicism: "The National Assembly notes that the division of projects into a phase is now possible, but only in cooperation with local communities." Good morning, you've done all this and eaten your words! And you say, "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia cannot share projects in a phase." That's a great explanation. I mean, this is the coalition's misdirection and the deceiving of mayors who are not on the stand anymore, but they're probably listening. Despite all the arrangements they had with the Ministry and with all the services where they were also promised that the phase was possible, you are firmly denying it and pretending that it is possible to do so, but that the Government itself cannot do so. I recommend that you support our proposal and withdraw this amendment, that this point be deleted, because this will do the most good for these projects.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u144	I'm joining the words of the previous speaker. However, I say that we will examine these projects in the Slovenian Democratic Party and if we find that the funds will indeed remain, that they will not be pumped and that the projects will not be completed, we will also try to demand accountability here in Parliament against the Minister for Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u145	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the 7th item of the updated proposal for a recommendation. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We are moving on to a decision on the proposed amendment tabled by the SDS Group to point 1 of the Complementary Proposal for a Recommendation. Anybody want to explain their voice? He doesn't want to. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 64 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 35. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to point 2 of the Complementary Proposal for a Recommendation. Anybody want to explain their voice? If he doesn't want to, we're going to make a decision. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 32. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to point 3 of the Complementary Proposal for a Recommendation. Anybody want to explain their voice before the vote? He doesn't want to. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 33 votes against 34. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to point 4 of the Complementary Proposal for a Recommendation. Anybody want to explain their voice? As a proponent? On behalf of the SDS Group? Mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I'm only talking about the essential, really essential amendments that keep looking. It is said that these 11 projects, which have been approved by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment and, of course, have been rejected by the management authorities in order to limit spending rights, will allow a green light to begin implementation. So we propose this amendment to the Government to check which municipalities are those that, due to the poor implementation of the projects allocated by the end of 2015, will not be able to draw on the money and that this money will be redeployed to the projects that are awaiting and, of course, to the green light of these projects that are awaiting. And even more important is the second part of the recommendation to the Government that, in preparing the operational programme for the financial perspective 2014-2020, the Government provide sufficient resources in the operational programme to complete all ongoing water projects and those new ones that receive the green light on the basis of the first paragraph of this Recommendation. This fourth decision, combined with the seventh phase recommendation, allows all European-funded water projects to be implemented, partly at the expense of other projects, as the need for these water projects will ensure a greater right of consumption than in the draft operational programme so far. This is based on two fundamental reasons, because we believe that water supply and healthy drinking water are the first priority in this country, and I think that all citizens of this country have the right under equal conditions to healthy drinking water. Another argument is that what has been found to be money today is, of course, still needs to be properly regulated in the context of the budget or the budget rebalancing. And it is not, respectable, any substantive reason, except one, that these funds of the new operational programme have already been transferred in advance in accordance with the interests of individual ministers beyond the knowledge of most of us. So, respectable, I ask for support for this amendment, which clearly sets priorities and, of course, also provides guidance on how to allocate funds in the operational programme of the financial perspective 2014-2020.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? No, no, no. Then we move on to the vote. We therefore vote on point 4 of the Complementary Proposal for a Recommendation and the amendment tabled to this point. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 29. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the PS, SD, DL and DeSUS to point 5 of the Complementary Proposal for a Recommendation. Anybody want to explain their voice? Mag. Mr Andrej Vizjak on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u148	Your Honor! This essentially deletes the implementation of the previously adopted decision. In fact, the previous recommendation allows it to start with these pending projects without delay, and in fact the 5th decision recommends to the Government that it increase additional spending rights from the financial perspective and sign the award contract on-waiting projects if all the conditions for this are met. This is very important. All conditions without any prior authorisation of additional rights and so on. In short, we want to tell you that the deletion of this in my opinion would also be a deletion of some guidance on how to implement the already accepted recommendation.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? He doesn't want to. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to point 5 of the Complementary Proposal for a Recommendation. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 66 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 36. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the PS, SD, DL and DeSUS to the 6th point of the supplementary proposal for a recommendation. Anybody want to explain their voice? On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The New Slovenia Group will oppose the amendment of the current coalition. Look, this amendment is unreasonable. I'm really asking for 10 seconds of reflection. Why? We have already done an exercise with which we have actually taken a similar decision or similar decision, namely 25. 3. In the Committee on European Union Affairs and undertake the Government by Decision No. 2 to make budgetary transfers and provide funds and so on and so on. And then, interestingly, the following day, on 26 March, the government took into account – all honour – the decision of this committee and made these budgetary transfers so that Minister Dejan Židan, my cousin, could sign co-financing contracts after Slovenia. But it was just one step. But this amendment is something like that. Now, if anyone bothers to write 35 million here, but look, it also says that the state gets back into the 40 million budget, which is a financial impact plus 5 million. And remember, maybe there'll be a black script about the 185 million stopped. What does that mean? This means that we must actually push forward these 11 projects, which we have been talking about all day. I'm asking you to think about it. This amendment to the current coalition is not good. So, delete point 6 or point 6 of the decision adopted by the committee. Let me recall once again, a similar decision, when it came to money, to ensure our own participation, we adopted it on the Committee on European Union Affairs and the following day the Government, at the correspondence meeting, realised our decision. The result of the vote on the committee was, I speak from memory, 10 to nothing. Of course, there is a majority of the coalition in the EU Affairs Committee. I very much beg to oppose this amendment of the coalition to point six. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? If he does not wish, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to point 6 of the Complementary Proposal for a Recommendation. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 34. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the PS, SD, DL and DeSUS parliamentary groups to point 7 of the Complementary Proposal for a Recommendation. Anybody want to explain their voice? Mag. Mr Andrej Vizjak on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u152	Thank you very much. The 7th Recommendation also discusses how to enable the implementation of all projects that provide better water supply, of course, enable the launch of these 11 projects. We're talking about a phase. This opens up the possibility of a phase, or recommends to the government that it go into this. Dear Government, I am convinced that there should not be a problem with a single mayor, where the current 49 environmental projects are being implemented, to agree to the stage and to the revised contract, because it does not matter to the mayor which financial perspectives will be financed by a specific environmental project in his municipality, or from the current financial perspective or from a new financial perspective, it is important that he be financed under the same conditions and with the same dynamics and in the same financial framework as before. This is important to the mayor. And I really don't see any reason why the mayors wouldn't agree to that. In short, the decision is fully feasible, only a little effort is made if you don't know how to negotiate, we are also available here to help you, and I believe that you will be able to do so successfully. That is why, of course, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we oppose the deletion of this specific amendment or our recommendation, because the recommendation says that projects where it is not possible to be completed by the end of the year are allocated the phase that they are made in this financial perspective to the stage that can be built and in the future financial perspective to the end. This is said not to mean that those projects that can be completed now are somehow stalling or stretching, but only to, of course, divide the projects into stages, to be optimally completed and to allow projects that are waiting for them to start working.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u153	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SLS Group, Mr Jakob Presječnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u154	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, Secretary of State and co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! In the parliamentary group, we will oppose the deletion of the 7th proposal for a decision or 7th decision. I mentioned earlier that a very similar decision was taken by the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment about a week ago, where it appealed to find a way where it is not possible to complete individual projects in full, to find a phased construction with a functional phase, a functional arrangement, and not just to interrupt one day, but where it is divided into probably two functionally manageable units, i.e. in two functions of a project that also works for itself. And let that other part, of course, be transferred to the next financial perspective. Such a decision was unanimously adopted by the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment, even proposed by the Minister of Mag. Dejan Židan and I see no reason for today, one week from now — I think even tomorrow, one week from now — to think otherwise. This conclusion, however, allows for the construction of all these facilities intended for the supply of clean drinking water. As it is said, in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will oppose the amendment to delete this 7th decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to explain their voice in their own name? Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u156	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm going to oppose this amendment myself. The proposal for a coalition shows that it is a complete dispersion among government representatives attending board meetings. The Vice-President of the Government on one committee promises one, his coalition in the National Assembly breaks matters. The representative, or State Secretary, of the Ministry of Finance, discusses the budgetary imbalances that these are major obstacles. In short, ma'am, we also offer professional assistance in implementing the balance, if this is such an obstacle, and we will also help you to put these operational programmes into practice. In short, not only are we going to oppose this proposal, we are also offering you professional assistance in the operationalisation of these matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to explain their voice in their own name? Mr. Mirko Brulc. Excuse me, Mr. Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u158	We made a deal earlier. We said a couple of odds, which one of us is going to say that we don't speak both ways, just like some on the other side. I will, of course, support the amendment. I think Mr Tanko – and I thank him for this last trip or for his explanation of vote – said what was the point of today's debate. In saying the worst, the worst, about government, whatever it is, because that's exactly what he said. He said, "What is the relationship within the government?" He said, "What is the relationship within the coalition?" And that was, in fact, today's purpose of this debate and, of course, also these agenda items. When I heard that there was going to be some kind of interpolation in the middle, I was surprised because that would be the first one in this term. Once again, I will support the amendment. I think it is necessary to take care of the country and find a solution that is legal, possible and does not create additional problems. And that was today's assurance, so once again, Mr Tanko, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u159	Thank you very much. We turn to the vote on the amendment tabled to point 7 of the Complementary Proposal for a Recommendation. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 33 votes against 31. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We ended the vote on the amendments. We are moving on to a full decision on the Complementary Proposal for a Recommendation. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home working body or the meeting of the National Assembly, the proposal for a recommendation would not be harmonised. Anyone want to explain their vote before the vote? Mag. Mr Andrej Vizjak on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u160	Dear colleagues! Despite the fact that more than half of the recommendations we proposed to the National Assembly were rejected and transported by the coalition, we will support these recommendations in the Slovenian Democratic Party. In particular, due to one key core recommendation, this is recommendation No. 4. Recommendation No 4 recommends that the Government launch these 11 pending projects without delay and ensure sufficient funding for ongoing projects and those pending projects in the financial perspective 2014-2020. In short, Parliament has made recommendation No. 4 gave a clear signal to the government what to do. Decision 5 would also be part of the operationalisation of this particular report, but Decision 7 was deleted, Decision 5 was not deleted, but I want to tell you that Decisions 5 and 7 were only a technique for implementing the recommendation under number four. Therefore, I believe that the essence of what we want today is not that we point to some operational flaw, if I am very polite, capable of government, but to say what goes on with these environmental projects that are waiting or, for which it would be right, that they are also launched and implemented as quickly as possible. And once again, recommendation No. 4 allows these pending projects to begin immediately so that the National Assembly recommends this to the Government. The National Assembly also recommends to the Government that for environmental projects it is necessary to increase resources to ensure that all projects are designed. And I hope, my fellow Members, that once for the change the Government will respect Parliament's recommendations.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? He does. On behalf of the SLS Group, Mr Jakob Presectnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Finally, let me stress that, of course, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support these conclusions, those which have been retained or supplemented by amendments. Also because of the fact that, of course, we note that the debate that has already taken place several times on the Committees – I think at least three times this year – and that today's debate is essential for us to also be aware of the problem of drawing on European funds or what the problem is for us, for us, of the country of an extremely important project. After all, as the only healthy means, we are left with practically these European funds, and everything else is going somehow wrong. And for this reason, the concern of everyone, not only in the Government, including everyone in the Slovenian municipalities, and in particular our concern, the concern of Members of the National Assembly and Members of the National Assembly, must be that we devote more attention to this than we have probably devoted to the lack of it in recent years. Perhaps the situation would be better today if all coalitions paid more attention to it. For this reason, the Members of our Group will support the draft conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u163	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u164	Dear colleagues and colleagues! On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, let me say that the Group of Members will support the recommendations. We strongly want and hope that these recommendations, which we have drawn up in today's debate and even in the two committees in the past, will help those who have the money ready and can start implementing them immediately, and that we will take the money away from those who cannot do anything and that will mean that the money will remain in the European cash register, which would be pointless. We would be really stupid if we didn't try and do everything we could to find solutions, however, how we can draw on this European money. Because if there were answers to why something could not be done, then we would have contributed to the economic damage caused by the fact that the municipalities have invested so much and so much in the preparation of these projects, because today it is all building operations and because nothing would have helped to help the construction sector again. As I said, the New Slovenia Group will hope that things will improve in terms of drawing on European funds, and it will support those recommendations.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-29-SDZ6-Izredna-62.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? If not, then we are going to make a full decision on the recommendation. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 65 Members and Members present, 40 votes against 1. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the recommendation is fully accepted. I'm closing this agenda item. I also conclude the 62nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Nicely greeted!
