ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10630	Dear ladies and gentlemen of parliament, honored guests, members of the BiH Council of Ministers, I am opening the 24th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. The Anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Once again, I warmly welcome all present representatives, members of the Council of Ministers and distinguished guests. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] Niko of the MPs have justified the absence of today's session, at least until this moment, although we have a quorum for full work and decision-making because there are 28 representatives presently attending the session. As indicated in the call for a session, in accordance with Article 167. The Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session, before the debate on the agenda, will allow MPs to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. In accordance with Article 168. The rules of procedure for asking parliamentary questions in oral form were submitted by the following representatives: Adil Osmanović, BiH Minister of Communications and Transport jasmin Emrić, BiH Minister of Security Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, BiH ministar of civilan posao Aida Baručija, Minister of Defence of BiH Damir Arnaut, Minister of Security of BiH. These announcements were delivered, in accordance with Rule 168 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and to that member of the Council of Ministers to whom the issue concerns. I would like to remind you that a direct and direct television transmission of this part of the session is provided in accordance with Rule 167(1) of the Rules of Procedure. Now we can start by asking oral questions and giving answers. I give my word to Adil Osmanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10631	Thank you, Chairman. There's no one here when it comes to the Council of Ministers, at least the Minister of Transport and Communications and the Chairman, but here, I'll ask the question. I hope I get an answer. At the 22nd session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH Representatives' House of Representatives, which was held on 07.07.2012 the initiative of the Party of Democratic Action, which reads: "Ask the Regulatory Agency for Communications to issue a public service order within 30 days of the adoption of this initiative to allow commercial media in the regions of Sarajevo, Banja Luka and Mostar, where there is a MUX A entry of controversial TV channels into the same (as it has been temporarily done with TV K3 from Prnjavor) or to allow damaged TV stations to temporarily at the locations of Kozara, Trebevic and Majevica to include DVT transmitters with temporary use of spectrum. 2 We expected that, behold, it has been 30 days, that we should receive detailed information from the Minister of Transport and Communications what has been done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10632	Thank you. Is there a representative of the Council of Ministers? There isn't. ...probably informed in writing. Let's move on, I'm giving my word to agent Jasmin Emrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10633	I thank the Honorable Chairman. For several months, we have witnessed in continuity the brutal, aggressive and malicious action of the destructive policy of the presidency of Milorad Dodik towards the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its institutions. That it is not an incident of deviating political behaviour, and one case shows a number of unscrupulous statements aimed at demeaning the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its institutions, to undermine the constitutional and legal system, and activities that continuously follow the announcement of a member of the Bureau of Milorad Dodik on a peaceful divergence, as he often calls it. Such statements, showing elements of secessionist intent, in line with the announced ultimate objective of secession and independence of the Bosnian Serb entity, as well as the concrete action of Milorad Dodik in line with this ultimate goal, pose a real threat to the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the internationally recognised states of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In the ambience of a very complex political situation caused by the blockade of the work of the representative and executive bodies of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as the dangerous intentions already followed by concrete counter-constitutional incentives and the action of members of the Bureau of Milorad Dodik through the already adopted conclusions, decisions and laws by the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, I ask the question of the BiH Security Minister. – Dear Ministers, what is your assessment of the security threat of the announced anti-constitutional and illegal action of BiH presidency member Milorad Dodik with the intention of destroying the constitutional and legal order of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the formation of para-state bodies and institutions, para-intelligence and paramilitary formations with the ultimate goal, how does he stress, secession or secession of the Bosnian Serb entity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10634	Thank you. Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10635	Honorable members of the College, distinguished representatives, members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. 3 Dear Representative Emrić, I have listened carefully to your question. I share your concerns, and I would like the Ministry of Security to have the competence to give some substantive interpretation, or answer to the concerns you share with the members of Parliament. But in relation to the responsibilities of the Ministry of Security, I can say that we are following the situation, we have co-ordination with the directors of agencies and continuity of the ministry's work, and for now we are ensuring the functionality of institutions without the basis of any activity. And the competences of other institutions, both domestic and international, I wouldn't comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10636	Thank you. A comment?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10637	I thank the Honorable Minister for this brief answer, and I ask the Minister to provide me with an answer in writing. My question was aimed at obtaining in the public media space ad hoc information on the assessment of the security situation from the Bosnia and Herzegovina's competent authority in order to get real information about the possible conflict, as well as the willingness of the competent authorities and institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina to react to the established threat of peace and stability, as well as the collapse of the constitutional and legal order of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In the context of calming and stabilising the political environment, I call, first of all, on my fellow Members and fellow MPs to implement our Constitution and the legal commitment, to return to dialogue through work and debate in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and to return real life topics to the focus of our work and political action, in order to ensure for all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina the environment, above all, peace and security, as well as sustainable economic development that has seriously been threatened and remains on the verge of our political action. [[Employee is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10638	Thank you. I give the word to the honourable representative Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10639	Thank you, Chairman. I warmly welcome you all. My oral parliamentary question was addressed to the minister of civil affairs, and, of course, it concerns diplomats and diploma checks. So, it's a topic that I'm not going to give up on, no matter what else, so two years from now, as far as this is concerned, nothing's done. The initiative to check diplomas in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions was adopted on 2602.2020 and the decision-making deadline was 90 days. 02.03.2020 was delivered to the Council of Ministers and, therefore, the deadline was 02.06. Since then, it has been five times 90 days and another 54 days to the day of today, or the day of this session. In all that time, I have referred four oral questions, this is the fifth, two emergency, and two written four questions. In addition to the fourth oral question at the last session, I also delivered urn acts. Since it is not clear to me whether they may not know how to make them, but it seems to me that before this is the other – that they will not, therefore, propose a decision and a letter to educational institutions. I now found, therefore, doubtful, and I say several times already, that certain people, i.e. holders of diplomas that are not, therefore, valid are being protected. And I, therefore, ask the question – Why is it not followed by Parliament's decisions? I keep making up new reasons for not making a decision, and I think this is an underestimation and disrespect of this House. And I want you to talk to me – When will the decision be on the agenda of the Council of Ministers? We're witnessing that the same background check in federal authorities has come out, I think, somewhere around 90 invalid diplomas. Also in Canton, Sarajevo's check shows that there are a number of diplomas that are not valid, but only in state This isn't working. [[Embassy is warned on time]] So, please decadent answer – When will this issue be held at the Council of Ministers' session?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10640	Thank you. Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10641	Honorable members of the College, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. In order to make a decision, of course, the Ministry of Civil Affairs has worked on it, however, the decision could be taken and adopted by the Council of Ministers and positive opinions from competent institutions should also be obtained. The Ministry of Civil Affairs worked on this, however, after certain objections to the text of the decision at the 33rd session of the Committee on the Interior Policy of the Council of Ministers have been discussed, the proposal for a decision to check the qualifications of all staff in institutions whose proposing is the Ministry of Civil Affairs. The Chair of the Committee on Interior Policy of the Council of Ministers has asked for further clarifications on the issue of competence of the BiH Ministry of Justice Administrative Inspectorate, with a proposal for further consultations with the Ministry of Justice before sending material to the Council of Ministers' meeting, which has been accepted and done. In this regard, the Ministry of Civil Affairs has again requested an opinion from the Ministry of Justice and the BiH Personal Data Protection Agency on the interpretation of Article 5(4) of the proposal for a decision which provides that institutions and bodies should not, in particular, collect or process any type of personal data on employees in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina during the verification process, which are not necessarily necessary and collected with a view to establishing the correct factual situation, should be subject to the examination. According to the Ministry of Justice's request, it provided suggestions and comments from the Ministry of Civil Affairs and accepted. The Agency for the Protection of Personal Data also responded that it remains in the previous position on the Proposal for a Decision submitted by the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina and states that all public documents are under suspicion of being harmful to the public interest because such actions violate legal certainty. They also drew attention to the fact that Canton Sarajevo's Anti-Corruption and Quality Management Office has launched an administrative dispute against the Agency's Personal Data Protection Solutions, and due to the verification of credible diplomas. In this regard, the BiH Personal Data Protection Agency recommends that the decision to check the 5 qualifications of all Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' employees be postponed until the administrative dispute is over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10642	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister Gudeljević. Do you have a comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10643	Of course I have a comment. So, this has already been addressed to the Personal Data Protection Agency once, and I am responsible for saying that the Agency is selectively, therefore, providing opinions on the basis of which it is concerned. I don't know how she didn't give her opinion when it came to the federal level of government. And here, as I've said so far, I don't know how many times I've said, it's not about personal data, it's about the name and last name and the number of diplomas, and the date it was issued. So this isn't about personal data at all. And I will remind the distinguished minister, and here, probably someone might hear from the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, that there is a recommendation from the Ombudsman for human rights which actually requires that, and says that the verification can be carried out since it is of public interest. Because we don't really question anyone's properly issued diplomas here, we want to determine the fact that there are so many diplomas that aren't valid. Therefore, anyone with a proper degree will certainly have no problem with that check. Only those who have, uh, a diploma that...the ambassador warns on time/ is not valid will have a problem here. So, I, this has really, really already become degutant, impertinent and rude. And there's obviously someone protecting themselves here.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10644	Thank you. I give my word to the esteemed representative of Aida Baruči. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10645	I thank the chairman. I welcome all present. My question was addressed to the defence minister – Were the members of the Armed Forces in the group of immunisation priorities against COVID-19, when the vaccines arrived, that is, when the process of vaccination of members of the Armed Forces began, and what is the percentage of... members of the Armed Forces? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10646	Thank you. Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10647	Good afternoon. Honorable members of the College, distinguished representatives, fellow members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen and distinguished MPs of Baruči. 6 So, the health care system for BiH Armed Forces is based and operates on family medicine, so, by place of residence as well as for all other citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The truth was offered by the Ministry of Defence to be partners in the procurement of vaccines, primarily through NATO and some friendly countries, which unfortunately did not come across understanding in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thus, members of the Armed Forces are vaccinated, so that exactly 25.34% of BiH Armed Forces have been vaccinated at the place of service and thus 25.34% of BiH Armed Forces have been vaccinated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10648	Thank you. A comment?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10649	I thank the minister. There is only a lack of response when the vaccination process began, given that the vaccines were both late in the Federation and Republika Srpska. Do you have any more information or send me a written response?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10650	It's best in writing to get an answer. Thank you. I give my word to the honourable representative Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10651	Thank you, Chairman. It's a matter for the Secretary of Security. At last session, held more than a month ago, the House of Representatives adopted an initiative to approach the development of amendments and additions of legal solutions in order to allow the stay of digital nomads in Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. to introduce a specific visa category for this type of worker, modelled by numerous European Union countries, including the Republic of Croatia, the Czech Republic, Estonia, etc. The deadline of the initiative is given three months from the day of adoption of the initiative. I am aware that the deadline has not yet been stated, but since these issues should be thoroughly approached, I am interested – how long have the Ministry's activities on this issue come, considering that it has already been more than a month? And I hope that this initiative will be implemented within the deadline, especially because it was one of the points of the agenda that has received minority universal support in this House, so that indeed the entire House of Maltene stands behind this initiative. And it is above all good for the economic, tourist and all other interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10652	Thank you. Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10653	I thank the honourable representative of Arnaut. 7 The initiative is contained in the Council of Ministers' electronic materials. I remind you that the last Council of Ministers session was held on July 22nd. Afterwards, we did not have a session and this material has not yet been discussed at the Council of Ministers' meeting, but has already been integrated and implemented from the point of view of the Ministry of Security's responsibility in amending and supplementing the laws that are under way.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10654	Thank you, Minister. A comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10655	Thank you, Chairman. I am aware that the Council of Ministers is not working, the second question is why it is not working, because you know very well that Minister Turković, together with Mr Bevanda, can attend a meeting of the Council of Ministers, regardless of what the chairman refuses to schedule, is another issue. And I think you should work on that, too. If things stand because Ministers Turković and Bevanda don't use their constitutional and legal options, then that's a really big problem. But also a Council of Ministers session to determine the draft laws is the final step. This is in the custody of the Department of Security. I hope that the Ministry of Security will forward a draft amendment and complementarity to the procedure shortly before the three-month deadline, so that the Council of Ministers can then establish a proposal to implement this initiative within the time limit set by the House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10656	Thank you. We don't have any more counsel to ask oral questions. We're moving on to the agenda. As for the amendments to the agenda of today's session, I would like to mention the following: The agenda has been removed, due to the failure to hold a session of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, three points earlier. Point 5. Report on the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2020, submitr: Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH, issue: 01.02-04-1-1412/21, dated 08.07.2021. Point 12. Special report on the effectiveness of legal solutions in the field of professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, applicant: The BiH Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution, issue: 01.02-37-1188/21, since 30.09.2021. Point 13. Discussing the initiative of MP Damir Arnaut, which is required by the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs to establish, within 14 days of the adoption of this initiative, the procedure and the initial process of issuing a single COVID-19 certificate with QR code, with the aim of their use outside Bosnia and Herzegovina in one of the following ways: 8 1) issuing such certificates by the Ministry itself, on the basis of a certificate of vaccination or diseased COVID, which the Ministry shall obtain from the competent entities, cantonal and authority of the Brcko District or attestation of those competent authorities which the citizens themselves deliver to the Ministry, 2) creating and delivering to those competent authorities a single form for issuing such certificates by those bodies, No. 01-50-1797/21, of 28.09.2021. Now I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Dear Representative Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10657	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all present in the hall. So, I propose to supplement the agenda with the following point: – Making a decision to accept the European Parliament Declaration on the European Day of Remembrance of victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. In fact, this is something that I've already, if I'm not mistaken, the third or fourth time I've tried to put on the agenda of the House of Representatives and, behold, it's never been accepted so far. I meant it there somewhere in September when we had our first session, but it was a postponement session, so I suggest it today. I have the material here with me, I'm going to have the service multiplied, so please put this on the agenda of this session today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10658	Thank you. I ask the services to multiply the material immediately and deliver it to all MPs, because we will have to make a statement about this, this addition to the agenda. There are no more applications to discuss the agenda, so in terms of applications. I'm closing the debate. We will now wait for this material of the distinguished representative Lovrinović to meet with him, to read about him so that we can then move to work on the agenda of today's session. We'll wait a few minutes to split the material. [[the material is divided]] I suggest that Mr. Lovrinović read us his decision, and in the meantime you will receive written material, so that you can get to know each other more in detail, so that we know what we say. Here you go, Mr. Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10660	I may have given the only copy, Mr. Chairman, but here, I found it. So, in accordance with Article 8. The Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, 9 numbers, submit to the initiative: "The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH accepts the Declaration of the European Parliament of 23.09.2008 and the Resolution of the European Parliament of 02.04.2009 and makes the decision, which marks the European Day of Remembrance of the victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes, and at the same session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH from 02.04.2009: 1) Honors the victims of totalitarian regimes and encourages the authorities of all totalitarian regimes in Bosnia and Herzegovina to enable and help identify the location of the victims, the markings of the same and the identification of the names of the victims; 2) The Council of Ministers shall take the necessary steps in order to reach out the need of the need to reach out to reach out to the need of the deadlines and follow-up the principles of the principles of the law. The European Parliament resolution of 2 April 2009 in point 15 calls for the announcement of this day, so on 23 August, on the pan-European day of remembrance of the victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes to be celebrated with dignity and impartiality. The European Parliament's resolution of 19 September 2019 on the importance of European memory for Europe's future reiterated the need to remember all victims of totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. I also remind you of the Resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe of 1481 of 26 January 2006 on the need for an international condemnation of the crimes of totalitarian and communist regimes, which obliges us as a member of the Council of Europe to respect it. It's content, so initiatives or decisions...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10661	Okay, thank you, Mr. Lovrinović. I think it's clear now what point and what material and content we're making ourselves known. So, we should now approach the vote on Mr. Lovrinović's proposal for inclusion in the agenda of this point that he has just read. Please plead. Of the 27 present – for 5, against 15, abstention 7. There's no general majority. I figure we don't have enough votes to put this item on the agenda. 10 I now conclude that the 24th session of the House has its next agenda and agenda. It's the same one you got with the call with the read changes and additions. Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 23rd session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives; 2. Comments on questions received; 3. Decision confirming the replacement of Bosnia and Herzegovina's defence minister, No 01,02-34-7-1845/21, of 05.10.1921; 4. Proposal for a Law amending Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law, Proponents Nermin Nikšić, Saša Magazinović, Nada Mladina and Zukan Helez, Law No: 01-02-1-863/21, of 21/04.2021, Short Procedure (first reading); 5. Report on the work of the BiH Law Department for 2020, issue: 01,02-50-18-1436/21, since 16.07.2012; 6. Report on the implementation of the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international commitments of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2020, applicant: BiH Presidency, issue: 01,02-16-1-1456/21, of 21.07. 2021; 7. Report on the financial audit of the implementation of the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2020, applicant: Office for the Audit of BiH institutions, issue: 01-16-9-1724/21, of 10/09/2021; 8. Report on the work of the BiH Export and Credit Agency for 2020, issue: 01,02-50-18-1684/21, of 31.08.2021; 9. Report on the implementation of the BiH Central Election Commission's law in 2020, applicant: Central Election Commission BiH, issue: 01,02-50-18-1705/21, of 08/09/2021; 10. Report on the implementation of the Local Elections 2020, applicant: Central Election Commission of BiH, issue: 01,02-50-18-1706/21, of 08/09/2021; 11. Considering the initiative of Representative Saša Magazinović, who is in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to submit the proposal for a framework law on climate change within six months, No. 01-50-11828/21, from 01.10.2021; 12. Proposal for a declaration of candidate status for membership in the European Union, Proposer: MP Nikola Lovrinović, number: 01-50-1-15-22/21, link: 01-02-1-1390/21, of 07.07.20121; 13. Giving consent to the ratification of Annex I to the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Montenegro on the implementation of border checks at the common border crossing points for the common location at the border crossing point of Delusa – Vratenovici; Annex II. Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Montenegro on the implementation of border checks at the common border crossing points for the common location at the border crossing of Hum-Scepan Polje; Annex III. Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Montenegro on the implementation of border checks at common border crossing points for a common location at the border crossing of Sitnica – Zupca and Aneks iv.e. Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Montenegro on the implementation of border checks at common border crossing points for a common location at the Klobuk border crossing – Ilino Brdo, number: 01,02-21-1-1780/21, of 23/09/21. It's a proposed agenda. We move to the point of one proposed agenda, that's, 11 Ad. 1. The adoption of the 23rd session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives You've reached the record. Any objections to the debate? There isn't. Moving to agenda number two, that's Ad. 2. Comments on answers received to parliamentary questions
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10665	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, members of the working presidency, gentlemen Members of Parliament, fellow ministers, distinguished guests. On 05.10.1921, I made a decision on the replacement of Defence Minister Sifet Podžić. I informed the BiH Parliamentary Assembly of the same decision, or both of its homes. I will Podsjetić you that this is the second time that I propose to Parliament a decision on the resolution of one of the ministers, as well as that you supported that decision for the first time in the House of Representatives. Let me briefly explain the reasons for making this decision of mine. The reasons for this decision are neither political, nor disagreement with Minister Podžić, but a concrete decision made by Minister Podžić. I am deeply convinced that the decision has been taken outside the authority of the defence minister, that it is a harsh violation of the Law on Defence and is a non-diplomatic relationship towards us to the neighbouring state of Serbia. I'll remind you of the order of events. In 04.10, the Minister of Defence adopted a Decision on the cancellation of the ‘Majeca 21’ military exercise. Me and other fellow ministers or at least most ministers are familiar with this decision through the media. On 05.10. I sent a letter to Minister Podžić and pointed to the harmfulness of such a decision and invited him to put the decision out of force. I phoned Minister Podžić, expressed my views and really expected him to make a decision to withdraw it. After the minister's decision to stay with his decision, I made a decision to discharge the defence minister. I want to say that for a long time in the media and in the towers and in this building, this exercise has been speculated that this exercise will be delayed and that the only reason that has been said then is the fact that no decision on temporary financing has been adopted, and the budget for 2021 has not yet been adopted in Parliament. These two, perhaps a good excuse and a good reason to postpone this exercise, but the decision on temporary funding was made in the meantime and there was insufficient reason to cancel the exercise. At the moment of the decision, I was absolutely aware of the relationship in the Parliamentary Assembly and the possibility that Parliament would not support my decision. But my key goal was not to confirm or deny Parliament's decision, my key goal is that all levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina make decisions in accordance with their powers and in accordance with the defined procedure. I'm acting like the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Meetings of the Council of Ministers very often include points that are proposed and adopted in the procedure, whether these decisions are liked or not by me or by someone, for example, from Republika Srpska. I've never blocked the adoption of any document in a way that I can dissipate it and put it on the agenda that should go into parliamentary procedure. And you know from the public that I voted against some of those decisions. If you MPs want to legalise the practice of individual ministers making a decision outside of defined procedures it is absolutely your right. The consequences of legalisation and practice will be judged on your own but the judges and the public. But we all need to be aware and know that legalizing practices is done by other ministers and that we may not like those decisions. Once again, my decision is the result of a concrete Defence Minister's decision that I consider to be a violation of the Defence Act and that it was taken outside the authority of the defence minister. My decision is not related to the political party's position, belonging to Minister Podžić, neither to the Council of Ministers nor to me personally. Gentlemen, you and I both know very well that this decision was not created in the defence minister's office. And you and I know well that the reasons for the cancellation of the exercise, which have been officially announced, are not the real reasons for the cancellation of the exercise. Gentlemen, it is up to you to decide whether you will confirm my position 13 that each minister can make decisions only in accordance with his powers and defined procedures or you will legalise the practice that everyone makes decisions in accordance with, outside of procedures and powers, and based on the decision and suggestion of some others who are not part of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10666	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, we will now open a debate on this Decision, and in accordance with Rule 161 (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Minister whose replacement is proposed has the right to address the House of Representatives. Minister, if you like?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10667	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10668	No, I don't. Okay. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Dženan Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10669	I thank the chairman. I welcome all present. At first, I would like to conclude that it is nice to see again the chairman of the Council of Ministers taking part in a decision within the Council of Ministers of BiH and taking part in the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, which is positive in this context. I would like to say that the chairman of the Council of Ministers has made several incorrect findings, incorrect information and, above all, incorrect claims. Namely, what's this about? Several times, in his oral explanation of the decision, he said that Bosnia and Herzegovina's defence minister rudely violated the BiH Defence Act by not quoting any member of the aforementioned Law, which allegedly broke the defence minister, nor did he explicitly state it in the reasons for making the decision and in the light of the decision in question. So, it's a flat-rate claim. On the other hand, he said that the defence minister, and he repeated it several times, incorrectly, that he made a decision to cancel the military exercise, it is also incorrect. So, the defence minister made no decision to cancel the military exercise, but to extend the maintenance date. And he did it within his jurisdiction. And the minister has repeatedly explained to the public why he did it, primarily by referring and consulting with the profession, here I mean the medical profession, or by explaining it to epidemiological measures and the situation with the spread of the COVID-19 infection and in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia, and the numbers that keep growing from day to day. The chairman of the Council of Ministers also incorrectly stated that the decision on temporary financing is actually a condition or that the decision creates assumptions for maintaining the exercise in question. So, the chairman, you well know that the activities of the BiH Ministry of Defence, and hence the Armed Forces of BiH, and all their annual planned programme activities, including the military exercise in question, are not financed by 14 by the decision on temporary financing, chairman. I'm surprised you don't know that, you're the same economic profession. So, the programme's activity, the Honorable Chairman, is planned and financed by the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions, not by the Interim Financing Decision. The funding from the Interim Financing Decision is the basis of the budget of the previous year. So, you can't, you can't finance this programme activity with money from the Interim Financing Decision so that it's a financial, material basis for the justice and financing of this programme activity, but a budget institution for 2021 which, unfortunately, is still in parliamentary procedure and is not adopted as such in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. With everything in mind, therefore, I'm quite certain that what you've been saying here in front of the pay phone that this has no political connotation, it's all the opposite. So you used and self-repaired yourself by degraded yourself and the function of the chairman of the Council of Ministers and yourself personally, to enter politics and the arena to take advantage of this as a moment as when you will return to the parliamentary benches and thus send a picture of how you do not block and destroy the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, it absolutely has nothing to do with the reasoning that you wrote in the decision in question, because the basis for the decision you made on the launch of the defence minister's shift absolutely does not exist, but, unfortunately, you have entered, and you from that position that you personally conduct, into one, one, one, an incredible politics. And with that in mind, I am absolutely sure that in the end the vote, concerning the decision in question, will also show what credibility you have from the position of the BiH Council of Ministers chairman. So, the very act of voting and the number of votes that will support you in this decision in question will send you a clear picture and a clear message that you have completely lost your political credibility in the position you are acting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10670	Thank you. Dear Representative Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10671	I had, respected chairman, prepared discussion but, behold, colleague Đonlagić as chairman of the DF Club which is, whether, and logically, since the minister is coming from that party, he took advantage of one number of these arguments, so I will, behold, shorten the discussion and save both my time and just once again what I said in public, and that is that this is extremely creative, I must admit, a way to return to the institutions, since the chairman of this decision knew that she would not be adopted, which we will see very soon and at the vote. But on the other hand, no one can ever question your right to come to Parliament and defend your decision. So, once again, this is an extremely creative way to go back to Parliament. As far as I'm concerned, you shouldn't have come out of it, even though I understand that you didn't do it because you wanted to, but because it was said not to say it. I believe that this item of the agenda can be a cause but also a place to talk about other things, to ask you to act in your function, both here and outside Parliament, to make sure that any heavy spoken word can end, at the very least, as a stone on the returnee's head somewhere in a village in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That the situation in the country that arises after the blockade of the work of Parliament and the Council of Ministers is not promising at all, in either political or security terms. That all these things for which responsibility is greater than the other 15 have those that create a situation like this. I choose my words carefully against what I would like to say at this point, but I don't want to cause a reaction that will lead this whole session and discussion in the wrong direction. Just in the end, I want to say that it's my desire to normalize the work of institutions, and according to my information, it'll come soon. I'm not gonna be the one to make it harder for you, so I'm not gonna be the one to make it harder for you, but I think this has been too much for you so far. Finally, thank Bog that the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina pays you and that the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina protects you. If you were with a private, you'd be fired three times by now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10672	Thank you. Dear Representative Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10673	Well, in your address here and explaining your decision, you said, or you put us on the burden of legalizing some practices, which will lead to us not acting, or supporting ministers who do not work in accordance with their responsibilities, etc. I must say that since the beginning of your term in the Council of Ministers, you have legalized various practices that I also consider illegal but also fatal for this country. First, you legalized the practice of not working and you're getting paid, so that's also one practice that in no way contributes to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, whatever parties they come from. It's also strange that you didn't replace ministers when they threatened the health of people, when in the most severe waves of the pandemic they attended the so-called pandemic. The corona-parties, and instead of giving their example of acting the opposite. You also didn't change when the vaccines were not obtained in time, so I think we're among the countries that started it at the latest. You haven't changed either because the laws are not passed, which doesn't meet the European Commission's priorities, therefore, and all of those reasons that our Club cited in the interpretation. It didn't occur to you that any of these reasons would be a reason to replace one of the ministers. Here today, perhaps, hopefully, and hopefully to follow the online session and the course of the session from the beginning, we see that the practice has been established to block all the processes that would benefit these citizens. So, for example, the laws are kept in drawers for two years, so here's two years we can't almost get to a decision to check the diploma and there's always some reason. It's just an example. So you've already legalized very bad practices in the Council of Ministers with your work so far, and imagine in the biggest political crisis since the end of the war, the biggest problem we've had is that the war with Serbia has failed. I mean, I don't see the problem at all. And as far as I can see, Bosnia and Herzegovina's relations have not been violated in any way when it comes to canceling military exercises. And I really mean, don't really insult our intelligence and say there's no political connotation here. He certainly has it.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10674	Thank you. Honorable representative Zukan Helez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10675	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, the chairman. 16 Behold, I am glad that I can finally see that complete leadership here in the House of Representatives is in its places, but here, we know what is the cause and what are the further announcements of how this particular group of representatives will behave. It's a little weird here today. Given how the Council of Ministers works, it would be logical for the opposition to seek the resignations of ministers, to seek resignations from the Council of Ministers' complete assembly. Despite the failure of the entire Council of Ministers, however, with the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Tegeltija, they are seeking shifts, or Tegeltija, to replace one of the ministers. I could also understand that, I could also support it that before that several serious offenses, so perhaps even crimes did not just take place chairing Tegelti and my fellow MPs. Chairman, are we ever, and I don't get it, and I want to hear from you the answer, who signs the salary for people who don't come to work. I guess there's a labour law that applies to everyone, if you don't come to work, you don't get fired for a certain number of days. Did we ever send a memo to the CEC that these people aren't coming, they're not doing their job. We haven't used anything yet. As for Mr. Secretary. First, in this situation, Mr. Minister, I congratulate you for canceling the military exercise, you have once again shown yourself to be a true minister. Because I can't understand that the chairman is more sorry for Serbia than Serbia itself. Have we ever received an act from Serbia to appeal, some note diplomatic, why no exercise has been held. But for God's sakes, these people who are obstructing and blocking processes in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina know what this looks like to me? Well, it's as if after World War II, he hadn't been killed, Adolf Hitler led the anti-fascist movement and led it. Well, it's amazing what people think. Sifet Podžić is my lawyer, a good minister and I will vote against this shift. I believe he is doing his job well, and if we need anyone in this situation in which Bosnia and Herzegovina is located, we need a man who understands the defence of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and who is the defence minister of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that is why the SDP Club, the club president, will support this, or be against the minister's shift. And, look, when I take the word I want more of these colleagues who came today, and because of Minister Podžić's shift, I can't understand that in the media I read such nonsense, he says – I won't come to the session because I respect the conclusions of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska. Well, I can't have lower levels of government determining how we're going to work here. It's totally out of the constitution, out of the law. So what, imagine this, here, I will be open to the end, Parliament of the Federation votes to abolish the Republika Srpska. And now all of us who are of the Federation say, so that we should put an end to it, and stick blindly to it. People, stay away from that people's business, get back to the institutions, this is the state you understand. I understand the emotions towards Serbia, including Croatia, and I have them, and I have emotions for Yugoslavia, and I fully understand the Serbian and Croatian people, but this is the state, my people, this is the state. And I'm glad that in this situation Minister Podžić has found himself in this place. And the ministers have my full support.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10676	Thank you. Dear representative Snježana Novaković-Novaković-Bursać. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10677	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. 17 I shall state, of course, the position on behalf of the SNSD Club initial. And, of course, we came here today only and exclusively to support the Defence Minister's replacement decision proposed by the chairman of Zoran Tegeltija, which he said enough in terms of legality and constitutionality. What is clear to all of us, however, is neither the key nor the key to that decision, but it is very significant because it directly violates the Constitution. To whom it is unclear to read little Article V, competences both for foreign policy and competences related to the Armed Forces, and in the concrete Decision we have elements of both foreign policy and the Armed Forces. However, it is not, we all have a clear background, and we all have a clear political context, and we all have a clear message, both for the Serbian people, for the representatives of Republika Srpska and for the messages to the Republic of Serbia. So maybe it's good that you're from some, let's say around, trying to talk about this subject is still pretty much getting to the bottom of it. Of course we do, and we expect that most Federation colleagues will not support this Decision, and I want to clearly call it the right name, for political reasons, and not for legal and essential reasons, as I have just cited them. Also, of course we're ready and of course we're clear that here they're going to try to impute us to break up the state, block the institutions, and there's nothing we can't do, what we've been witnessing in the past few days. However, I repeat here clearly and loudly, as we have repeated all these years, one who fundamentally does not respect the Constitution of his country, does not respect the laws, especially in our particular case who does not respect the will of one, the other or the two, or, I do not know how in which combination, the will of the constituent peoples essentially breaks the foundations on which this country is created, on which it can survive and can function. So these imputations about blockades, which you can talk about and talk about, no one will forbid you, but legal arguments, the argument is politically on the side of those who, in continuity, are called to the Constitution and to the fundamental principles of this, on which this country, as I said, should and only function. I'll remind you of a few important things given these so-called so-called things. blockages or participation or failure to participate in work. Every so-called so-called. The blockade, i.e. the absence of participation in concrete activities, here is specifically the House of Representatives, was and was an exclusive reaction to what was a brutal violation of the law and a brutal violation of the electoral will, specifically the citizens of Republika Srpska, specifically the Serbian people. First, this Council of Ministers, which we can now, of course, all on our part to accuse, that I don't know what to impute and not impute, was obstructed just one year to even enter our positions, directly in violation of the Council of Ministers that prescribed direct deadlines, without even a single valid reason, without even one normal approach, this, inexplicable reason, of course, who doesn't know our inner opportunities. We had a chance to hear an explicit explanation of such behavior last night, of course we knew. Here she keeps trying to give someone something like I'm going to give you a little power if I like you or don't like you, no matter what the citizens choose, I'm going to go in, I'm going to take this one, and I'm not going in power because I like someone's attitude more or less. Well, is that how you really think it's democracy, is that really how you think this country can work? Here until one day we begin to accept ourselves, first of all to accept what the Constitution says, so that we accept each other as we come from the elections, and not to have an attitude – here, I decided to give someone something today. Who's here to give someone something, if it's someone's legacy here, if it's someone's, I don't know what I'd call it. As far as other matters are concerned, I'm not going back to the details, you're all witnesses of how everything here is broken and the law and many other things, and when it comes to, let's say from those banal things coffee is that famous justice committee, including members of the CEC election, members, CEC members, CEC members, which is neither constitutional nor legal, let alone legal, etc. So I'm going back to what, once again, we've known for years, and we've been warning for years that it's not a good way and it's not a good way to function, to disrespect the true will of any of the people, and it's not a good thing to disrespect 18 of the electoral will of the citizens of whatever they are. As for the blockades, as far as this attempt to impute that this is some of ours as a fake, as you've tried it funny and sad, Mr. Magazinović, that in his political manner, this, uh, present here, I have something else to tell you. It's sad, it's sad, and here I am talking to all of you who accept and admire you, and you have to admire what the people have chosen you for, it's a great honor and responsibility, but at the same time it's inexplicable in logical or any other sense that you accept that someone in your name is passing the law. We are determined not to accept it, no matter what you think and whatever it is to you, whatever reason you make it up to you. Well, where it's going to be logical, it's not normal. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I'm sorry, I have the right to discuss the point. You didn't even impute the agenda when something else was going on here. Secondly, it is not normal for me, nor will it ever be normal for me, that someone who advocates the state and the state accepts any stranger in their highest judicial bodies, political bodies, and calls for any intervention. There is no possible logical reason, nor a normal human, especially in such a complex country that has such a history of relationships, and of good and bad, I refer, unfortunately, to these bad ones, that they can call for such a thing again. So, I agree that we need to calm the tones, stop with the hard words, but gentlemen don't come from Republika Srpska, it doesn't come from the SNSD Club, it doesn't come from SNSD representatives, it doesn't come from any elected official. I appeal this way to all the public of the Federation that you really ask your representatives to refrain from such words, because that stone you speak of Mr. Magazinović, as soon as you speak of it, is in your head, that it is not in your intention or in someone whose messages you are reading now, who is Sufling to you. If I don't have to thank Bog for my salary, I have something to live on, there are too many MPs who have this one and only function and one profession, so leave that concern to someone else. So, I'm going back to the specifics now, however you say today, and I expect, of course, that most colleagues will plead against the Change Decision, I would like to say that they will represent a continuation of the violation of the law and the conduct that is contrary to the principles on which this country was created, on which only it can and should survive and function. It's your choice, gentlemen. And please don't give us any guilt, we're totally calm, we're reasonable and we have a chance to go back, where we can function, where we really do, and we're doing the electoral will of our citizens and, yes, where we can develop both our economy and our social relations and everything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10679	Thank you. Representative Saša Magazinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10680	First of all, I'm not the SNSD guy who's suffocating me and texting me what I'm gonna say. I understand that you're moving away from yourself but there are us who are independent in our political action, and in SDP 19, everyone can say what they think. So, I'm looking at some, let me tell you that, I'll read you what I was looking at. So you say - you are determined not to accept. You're determined to accept everything Mr. Dodik tells you. When he says in the O.R., he goes to the O.R., when he says out of the O.R., he goes out of the O.R. That you're determined to forget it, because your determination ends with the boss's orders. And I'm looking at you that way, so you're not at all relevant that there's something to negotiate with you, because what you're negotiating with whoever's asking is you're going to spend no matter what you think. You're inviting us not to go around, to get to the point. Well, let me tell you what the point is. The point is oxygen crime, that's the essence of who you're running away from, where you're playing lawyers to criminals who have violated the laws of this country. And when it was discovered and many other things began to be revealed, then you remembered the Serbian people behind you, the Constitution behind which you hide, the Republika Srpska behind which you hide. And imagine this, in the main attack of the collapse of institutions, the state doesn't exist, no one like this remembers saying that if you don't separate 100 million from the building of the indirect tax administration it will separate the entity. For the administration of indirect taxation of the same state you don't recognize. Why don't you explain to us a little bit about this building, whose building, who owns it, what it's like with your president, why you're stuck with that 100 million. Let's talk about it a little bit, and then we'll tell you what's the essence of what you're doing. Come on, is it the fear of some of you here that you don't detach the bench around the Institute of Public Health and those who have been arrested, that there are no more arrests. Is there any reason to behave like this? I think he does, but he learned. Hide behind the people. [[Employee is warned on time]] And let me tell you, for the sake of several political criminals and those who have politics behind their backs, you're humiliating yourself and allowing yourself, and I know you're not part of that story, but you've allowed yourself to defend criminals. And what I was looking at on the phone was the next thing - and I'd like to get the tension down and not have this story, but if Dodik's pulling moves like that, if he's threatening, he's scaring, he's insulting, he's the only one who's causing it. And he shouldn't be surprised if he gets that answer. [[Employee is warned on time]] And what he's saying is that he's a peace leader and he's gonna calm down, which I think he's a little wrong this time.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10681	Thank you. The esteemed representative Alma Čolo, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10682	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I would correct Mrs. Snježana Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać's guilty allegations that she has said several times that it is a so-called blockade and that we call their behaviour a blockade, which is essentially not. I think it's a real blockade because Republika Srpska lawmakers blocked the legislative process in this House. When you were elected to Parliament, you took an oath that you would knowingly and responsibly carry out your duties. Consciously and responsibly to carry out entrusted duties means to participate in Parliament's work, not to sit in the offices of Parliament because decisions are made in Parliament in this Chamber. We cannot make laws because of you, we cannot because of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers who does not propose before the Council of Ministers of Law in this Parliament and cannot make quality decisions unless you are sitting in this Parliament. You were not elected, you were not elected by the citizens of Republika Srpska to sit in the National Assembly of Republika Srpska and to respect the laws of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, and to respect the decisions of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska and their conclusions. I have read this very well, which is that you will not participate in the decision-making process, which does not prevent you from sitting in this House and discussing with us. And so I would say that this so-called blockade, which you call that, is actually a real blockade and it needs to be removed. You need to come back here and discuss it together and make the right decisions. If, I think, you have the right obligations and when it comes to your working-legal status, because the Labour Act also applies to MPs in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, if you do not work in Parliament, then stop working in Parliament and receive only a flat rate for your work and be MPs who are not in a permanent working relationship with the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, because here you have other interests, you can work in other defences and not be in Parliament constantly employed.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10683	Thank you. Nenad Stevandić, not respecting the established agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10684	Thank you very much. Well, I accept if we agree to talk about everything and everything, about who's fascinated by Milorad Dodik, who told Dr. Novaković that she's not relevant, he's offended, who's to determine how we're going to receive salaries here and what business we're going to deal with, as the former colleague said, but it's really not on the agenda. But if we can open up and that debate isn't disputed. If we find some causal link, okay, so let's talk about it all, but I don't think you can determine the way we in Republika Srpska, who answer to our voters. Well, we're not hired workers to get paid here and tell us if we're going to be here or in some city on the ground. Well, we didn't come to someone's private firm here in Sarajevo, we're authentic representatives of our people, and we're doing what he chose us to do, which we don't argue that you're right. We are not here to be insulted, called relevant and irrelevant, what is the point of this debate. Anyone who comes here has their own number of votes and is relevant, has the right to speak. I don't understand why something that is absolutely a topic to say about Mr. Secretary of Defense being without consultation with his two ministers has made a decision which, under the Law of Defence, has no right. That he has taken over the role of the BiH presidency in foreign policy and made a decision that has to do with international activities. I don't suppose you should, the first year of the Faculty of Law, it is known that if international contracts and international activities are spoken of that is not decided by the minister, but that at least in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the presidency decides. Do we need to talk about the measure that we were on the same Manjača before that, which should be the subject, we had a drill with the US military, which in Republika Srpska was, to say, certain, uh, resistance or to say "supervision," but we agreed -- so people better be together, exchange messages, negotiate, make friendships. And then, you know, even more, that's what I'm going to ask your esteemed ministers to sign up for, then there was an even worse epidemiological situation, and then there were even fewer members of the BiH Armed Forces who were vaccinated. If you want, we can document it. It's much more vaccinated after training with the U.S. Army in Maniachi, but you wrote that because a small number was vaccinated. It's a measure we need to talk about and see if anyone wanted to cause that kind of conflict, which Serbia had avoided, and it was very clever not to advertise all of it. And we tried to avoid, that... Both Serbian and Croatian soldiers, and any, welcome to Manjac to exchange people 21 messages, have phones, to hang out. I guess the point of co-operation is that people don't develop enmity, they develop friendships. That's what we need to talk about at this military exercise, and to talk about whether the minister had a consultation with his deputies, whether he had a consultation with members of the Bureau. And he took over himself. [[Employee is warned on time]] So that's the subject. But it's not disputed we'll discuss other things that we think are relevant if you continue like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10685	Thank you. Dear Representative Zlatan Begić, not respecting the established agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10686	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all. I'm glad to see my colleagues from Republika Srpska's entity at today's session, but I would like to ask you chairman to warn the MPs not to yell at us here, there's no need for that, indeed. Well, I'd also like to go back to the day, I accept, and I apologize for having to react this way, and I think we should discuss what we have, get back on the agenda. In no way do we want to create a problem in relations in the region, we are for absolute co-operation, but given the epidemiological situation, I don't think it's right. Today's reports from the Republic of Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, need to be looked at and seen that young people really do not need to be exposed to problems. World lectures, world scientific conventions and symposia, cultural, artistic events, sports events are being delayed, switching to the online system. Don't put our children at unnecessary risk. That's the point. Of course, that we should cooperate, that we should organize joint exercises, after all this exercise has not been cancelled, it has been delayed for some better time which I hope will come very soon. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10687	Thank you. Snježana Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać, correcting the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10688	Thank you, Chairman. Well, here, I'll start with my colleague, Čolo, and I'm really grateful that you mentioned the text of the oath, I know him very well. And first of all, what this text is called upon, which we are all bound to do here, to respect the Constitution and the will of our peoples, the constitutional and the citizens. Now, that's Mrs. Čolo's fundamental problem with everything you can call a blockade. I seem to have met you more than once in this House in the last month than you have, I have not met you once, I am here every week. What we think is that when someone accepts that someone on behalf of him is passing a law, and he calls himself a elected representative and a member of Parliament is a practice that is not normal, and that we do not want to participate in such an environment. That's, I'm sorry, our political right that we express in different ways. So I'm asking you to finish, so we don't bring this debate to this point anymore because it's too clear. 22 As for you, Mr. Magazinović to me, I see how busy you are with SNSD, so you imagine yourself, you know, in some of us it's called in some, I can't say it directly to medical circles, but someone next to it is called syndrome, look over the board syndrome. And you know who has this syndrome? Whoever has no business, there is nothing, and then he sees what happens in someone else's over the board, and then, of course, he does the imagination, and he imagines things. And what's up, what's a little, what's up with the little(?) SDP's dream comes from Mr., uh, Magazinović, so here as a great one he exposes us. It doesn't matter what you say. SNSD may look whatever you want, you have the right to do so, but we go to the polls and we get support. As far as oxygen is concerned, I have to say this for the sake of the public, the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina by 2015, in March of this year she was getting oxygen under the same conditions and no one, to be a little bit, so to speak, had clean papers, and you're trying to make an affair, sir, only in Republika Srpska. Most important because of our citizens, all citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina breathed and breathed medically Right oxygen. [[Embassy is warned on time]] And what, if anyone is responsible, is the Agency for Medicinal Products that missed five or six years even to regulate this area that only the World Health Organization classified medical gases in 2014. Don't, please, enter a field where you have no idea of mildness and try to create affairs here as well. [[Embassy is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10689	Thank you. Saša Magazinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10690	So, you defend crime, and now you admit it in this speech of yours that no one had clean papers, you defend crime. So you're defending crime and criminals. And I don't know how you even let yourself. So this whole story was created when the High Representative made a decision to ban genocide denial. So all the time it's been a problem. Suddenly the other day, it's not a problem anymore, it's a problem of the forest. What happened to this first one? No, now the woods are a problem, and these are the same forests that that same Dodik knows he can't handle without the BiH Parliament. Because if it weren't for that, the SNSD in 2012 would have proposed a law here in Parliament, but would have proposed it in the National Assembly by then. I'll get you some, and I'll give you a SNSD proposal. What did you propose to him in the state parliament when he could do it without a state? Well, it's ridiculous what you're doing. The basic reason for this whole noise is crime, a crime that will come to Bog ask who, and you protect him. The problem is to respect the victims of genocide in your country, killed neighbours, and you have no problem coming here to this same Parliament and proposing that the victims of genocide be respected, where Orthodoxs killed Muslims only in Azerbaijan. And you propose it here and the entire Parliament unanimously adopts it. So there's a genocide there for respect, your neighbors aren't for respect. It's hypocrisy and duplicity. And in the end, I wouldn't want to tear down your... and your vision of your importance within your party, so let's keep it that way. Think about whatever you think, whatever you want, but some things you'll find out, probably late.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10691	Thank you. Honorable representative Damir Arnaut, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10692	Thank you, Chairman. As chairman of the Interim Commission for Justice in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is my obligation to react to a lie which has been said that the Commission has been established unconstitutionally and illegally. The Commission was established in accordance with the BiH Constitution, the Law on Parliamentary Oversight, this Rules of Procedure, voted here in this House of Representatives with a general majority that included the entity majority, established, members appointed, in exactly the same way voted in this House with a general majority that includes the entity majority. It's confirmed in the record,...this is all I said, confirmed in the log from the fourth emergency session and the 8th regular session of this House. And when you look at the voting list, both minutes were adopted unanimously. All members of the SNSD voted in favour of these minutes, which states that the Commission was founded, that it was established, that people were appointed, that work should be started, etc. No one even commented on the minutes from these sessions where this was all done, and you still voted for those minutes, just as SNSD members voted for Sifet Podžić, whom they would have replaced today, but I will have a discussion, I have now responded to the wrong allegations. And by acknowledging the authority and legality, legitimacy, constitutionality and the Commission, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Zoran Tegeltija, responded to the Commission's call, came before the Commission, testified, was examined by the members of the Commission, which is also being unanimously adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10693	Thank you. We're going to a discussion. Adil Osmanović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10694	Thank you, Chairman. Respected co-chair, colleagues and fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, esteemed guests. First of all, I must give the impression that it is really sad to observe my colleagues and colleagues coming from Republika Srpska for their behaviour so far. I know many of them, and I don't really see any reason for you to treat this high house this way. Especially you surprise Radmanović, I know you from the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, you've always been at the height of the task, you've always had arguments, you've been prepared to defend those arguments and you've been prepared to deal with all the problems that you face both before you and the state institutions and you've responded to them. The only place here, this Parliament, is to discuss all the problems and give certain answers to them. How to address the BiH Council of Ministers' initiative to replace the defence minister, which calls for the BiH Council of Ministers' Law, which states in the same law that he is the chairman of the Council of Ministers' commitment to convene meetings at least once a week. Well, you haven't called a Council of Ministers meeting in three months. So you know how sad it is to see you enter here on the third item of the agenda, after three months entering this Parliament with an initiative to replace the defence minister. Well, it's not at the height, I don't know if I should call you the chairman of the Council of Ministers, so it's not at the height of the responsibility, the obligation of the one you've taken over. Here you have sworn before us that you will honor the Constitution and the law of this state. Is there anywhere in the Constitution and the law that you do not call the Council of Ministers meetings? Well, it was natural that if you have an objection to the work of Minister of Defense 24 to discuss it at the Council of Ministers' session, to see what, how, how to answer all of that. You have also stated here, as counterpart Đonlagić said, that the Defence Act was violated when it comes to the defence minister. I couldn't find anywhere, although I read the Defence Act several times, that Minister Podžić only because he delayed the exercise and gave precise reasons why he did it, that he violated the Defence Act. Here we have heard the percentage of vaccinated soldiers in the Armed Forces of BiH and what counterpart Helez said I congratulate the defence minister for leading, above all, the consideration of our soldiers regarding this severe pandemic that is here... How do you go on setting up a colleague of Tegelti now, you've launched an initiative? It is obvious that this initiative will not even receive, as they would say, 10% here in Parliament support. What is your position then, have you thought about it? It's easy to submit an initiative, but you have to watch what's behind that initiative. What will you do now that this initiative does not receive support, what is your position, what is your position, do you have the support of this House? You and I both know that you do not have the support of Parliament, nor can you have, that you are not doing business in accordance with the Constitution and with the law. We've given you support, we expect from you, but without you acting in one very political and irresponsible way. You have no argument. Here, I'd like you to say one reasonable argument, which is why you don't call the Council of Ministers meetings, except for the political ones, and it's also questionable. What kind of policy is this that thinks well of the citizens of this country who want to stop the work of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Well, these are our institutions, and mine, and yours, and all of us sitting here. You're trying, here's a colleague of Snježana White trying to make some arguments about why you're not coming. Well, the High Representative's decision is binding on us, so at least this Parliament has had the influence to make such a decision. Did we affect that? Why are you blocking this Parliament? The decision of the BiH Constitutional Court you are also calling upon, so what do we have to do with the Constitutional Court's decision. They are implemented, implemented, etc. All of these are some kind of call arguments that make you want to block the work of state institutions. But it's nothing, it's politics, and we end up in this situation that we're in right now. I wish you had consulted with the Council of Ministers, a colleague of Tegelti, to see how, in what direction you were moving, you spoke more to Minister Podžić, but this is how you brought yourself into an ungrateful situation. What kind of chairman of the Council of Ministers who initiates initiatives and does not think about how Parliament will determine and how it will vote. What kind of relationship will continue with your initiatives, your proposals, etc. And, I would like to invite, here, all the colleagues and colleagues here from Republika Srpska's entity to get serious, to work here, here, as we do today, here is the place to make arguments, counter arguments and find solutions. Running away from this hall, to use one, perhaps, unconventional term, hanging out in the halls, by clubs, is not appropriate, gentlemen. You're State MPs. YouRadmanović the chairman, you're a member of the College of this tall home, it's not your place to walk around the halls, etc. Let us act responsibly as we are required by the Constitution, the law and the citizens of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10695	Thank you. Alma Čolo, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10696	Thank you, Chairman. 25 Maybe I'll repeat some of the things that my colleague Adil Osmanović said. I really did not see a concrete legal and constitutional basis in the light of the Council of Ministers' decision, which is why he believes the defence minister violated his powers by extending the exercise of the Armed Forces with the Armed Forces of the Republic of Serbia. However, in addition to this lack, which does not give me the right to raise my hand for such a decision, I would refer to what Mr. Tegelti, whom I greatly appreciate, and I was very happy when he was elected chairman of the Council of Ministers because I appreciated his long-standing work experience and I thought it was a man who, at least in economic terms, would drag this country forward. I'm disappointed now with these last moves. I would refer to what he said in the opening statement. He said he had replaced the defence minister, in fact referred this proposal, with the goal of showing that all institutions should make decisions in accordance with the law and with their powers. And that's a great thing if the chairman of the Council of Ministers thinks all institutions and individuals need to make decisions in accordance with the law and in accordance with their powers. However, the chairman of Tegelti, I have never heard you comment on the Decision of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, which has dictated the law of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Can the lower organisational level of government derogate, abolish the law of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina in which you are the chairman of the Council of Ministers? Have you ever responded to the Decision of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, which passed the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Resources, which exists in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which this same Parliament has adopted? Can the lower level of government pass the same law that already exists and exists at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina? I will remind you of the provisions of the BiH Constitution that entities and their lower levels of government must adhere to the BiH Constitution and decisions of state authorities. The law on medicines and medical means of BiH is a decision, the law of the state authority and cannot be passed by an entity contrary to this law. I didn't hear you react, so I don't think what you've put out in your defense minister's shift statement is inconclusive and not based on the Constitution or the law. And that's why I won't support your decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10697	Thank you. Nermin Nikšić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10698	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm really going to try to stick to the agenda. So, when the Council of Ministers was appointed, I talked about the Programme and said it was a list of great desires that I don't believe will come true. And unfortunately for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it turns out that I and all those who had doubts at the time were right. If that is so logical, then it would be that we, as an opposition, insist on the Council of Ministers' shift, not that within the Council of Ministers and parliamentary majority, they outsmart one another. What's there? It speaks more of the parliamentary majority and your mutual mistrust, the lack of a vision program. But let's remind ourselves of some things. First, Mr Radončić, the man who carried the Council of Ministers' activities, left the Council of Ministers. Afterwards, you tried to replace Minister Košarac, who is also one of the few ministers who, under these circumstances, is trying to do his job. Then you replaced one minister because of a change in parliamentary majority, and here, today we have a motion to replace the defence minister. I am even sure that a possible shift wouldn't bother Minister Podžić, because I am sure that he is trying, as many as 26 of this kind in the Council of Ministers, to do his job, which is obviously, when I talk about this Council of Ministers and parliamentary majority meeting and based on experience so far, and is not some reference. I would appreciate it much more if the chairman had come up with a proposal that, in which he would state the sincere reasons that really motivated him to make such a decision. However, when I read the reason for the shift, I cannot believe it and is truly insulting and underestimating both MPs and the public, I will quote, "The minister of one-sided moves violates the rule of law and internal trust, and diplomatic relations and foreign co-operation, and as chairman of the Council of Ministers, I am responsible for harmonising the constitutional relations of the Council of Ministers, the BiH Presidency and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH," I conclude the quote. Is there anyone serious, and so are those who wrote this, and those who support it, who can seriously believe this argument. Is it really possible that the Council of Ministers and chairmans are calling for the rule of law and internal trust. Because if that were true, if we had the rule of law, there would be no one left in that Council of Ministers, not even the chairman himself. Is there anything about this Council of Ministers that is in accordance with the law and the Constitution? So, if there was a rule of law in this country, there are a lot of those who would be on forced leave today. It is illusory to talk about the violation of diplomatic relations and foreign co-operation, and to coordinate constitutional relations by the chairman between the Council of Ministers and the BiH Presidency, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, not only is it illusory... because I would like to see any example of harmonising these relations and communication between the Council of Ministers and the Presidency, for starters. Of course, it is clear that the motives for the motion for a shift are not in violation of the Constitution and the law, but political nature. Of course, the decision of the MPs will be based on the Constitution and the law, whatever it is, because the appointment and the shifts are decided by the MPs by their own free will. However, since motives are not legal but political, that we are not wrong, then the decision of MPs voting for a shift or against a shift will be purely political. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10699	Thank you. Representative Nenad Stevandić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10700	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Meritum, therefore, is a violation of the law, the basis for asking for Mr Podžić's shift, Article 8(2) of the BiH Defence Act. The chain of command and control over the Armed Forces of BiH begins with the BiH presidency. Article 11. The presidency, acting towards the consensus, has a supreme command. Article 12. Read all the responsibilities of the Bureau. You can laugh and turn like that, but read first. And a member of the 16th Minister obeys the presidency's orders. What of these legal ouses and members was cited by Minister Podžić when he cancelled and delayed the exercise? Nothing. Who did he consult with, the deputies, the members of the presidency? He consulted with his party colleagues, I understand that, but no one else did. Then don't blame us for the others we consult with our coalition partners. So far, everything and everything has been discussed here, and the Law on Medicinal Products adopted in the Republika Srpska Parliament. And I understand that all these topics are connected and I'm going to be completely open and I'm going to tell you what I think. In these three years, I have experienced great disappointment, hoping that we can truly agree that we respect each other and that we are fully aware that Bosnia and Herzegovina exists and operates on two vital principles, and 27 are the consent of all peoples and all entities. It's a principle that can lead us to peace, that our children stay here, that they are educated here, that politicians fight and fight for affection... Wherever these principles are violated, there will be a crisis. Since others said that, until I get back to the Department of Defense alone, and they're not interrupted even though it's not a topic, so I'm going to take the same rights as the others. There are only two places in Bosnia and Herzegovina that function without the vital principle of consent of peoples and entities. It's the Constitutional Court and the OHR Office. There you can draw no national, no entity, no other interest. All the crises so far, including the one that separated us from this Parliament, are the result of these actions. Do not honor us, we are not against the protection of victims of any crime, we are not against, this, the punishment of those who deny crimes, we are against the adoption of the laws by the High Representative, and they are brought by the Constitution of BiH and Republika Srpska in Parliament and brought by the competent authorities. And it's not the verbal deliction of the cattle-ferman, but we're making legal provisions. We missed this, so we had to declare acts in Republika Srpska that the law does not apply because it violates the BiH Constitution that guarantees freedom of expression, the presentation of attitudes, as well as the Republika Srpska Constitution. As for the objections to the transfer of jurisdiction, what Čolo said about the Law on Medicinal Products and the preparation of other laws. Yeah, it's true, they're getting ready for me to be completely open. Article III of the Statute (3) of the BiH Constitution stipulates that all governmental functions and powers not conferred on the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina are exclusively assigned to entities. In Article 3. The Republika Srpska Constitution is prescribed that the Republika Srpska's expressions belong to all state functions and competences other than those explicitly transferred to its institutions by the BiH Constitution. By interpreting these two complementary provisions, the Constitution of BiH and the Constitution of Republika Srpska, we come to the conclusion that the agreement transferred jurisdiction to the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina until constitutional amendments to the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. until they are explicitly given to the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by the BiH Constitution, they continue to belong to entities. There's a story about the withdrawal of the agreement and the agreement. And what's objective? Well, it's objective for anyone in the Federation to have whatever the Constitutional Court has said that Republika Srpska cannot dispose of forests, waters, agricultural land. Who will... here people better not build us there... Would it be better for someone in Republika Srpska if we had put up with the vital national interest...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10701	Please item on the agenda – change of Minister Podžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10702	You could have warned others, Mr. Zvizdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10703	Please, period, stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10704	I'm holding on exactly as much as the others, and you warn me... as much as...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10705	First warning, stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10706	You're not the high representative here, and so am I. Therefore, to be rational and to be correct, we are in favour of discussing all matters. We're not for any 28 conflicts, but we can't, we can't let ourselves be humiliated, we're being beaten here by various political initiatives, and someone expects to find some hole in Republika Srpska or some other people who will be chosen by the people and who will be obedient. I understand that you have partial hope in your left and that division now position and opposition but the people are thinking the same thing, and it's going to take a while. I repeat, this decision, Mr Podžić, has introduced that apart from the Constitutional Court and the OHR, the minister can do whatever he wants, not to consult members of the presidency about foreign policy and his deputies. Well, that's a rule that will break tomorrow's complete legal system in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It will be done by every minister, and by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and by every MP. That's the measure of what's going on, and that's the problem that's going to meet us on the next topic and on the next crisis. And we only came here to tell you this. That's why we're here because it saves your knowledge that we don't get into that kind of mess. And it's nothing to Mr. Podžić personally or to the Democratic Front, whatever we think of each other. I have a feeling that we're going to spend our lives, you in some hope that you'll wait until the time for Republika Srpska to be abolished, and we're on the contrary in the hope that we'll split up, instead of living together and working together, not spending our lives on each other's vices. I would like to tell you that we do not want to turn into some rebels, some people who dispute what the whole world accepts, but as people who legitimately express their political views because they are legitimately chosen by the people, as you are chosen. We all know together that since the last war that ended, the perceptions that someone has won, someone has lost, and someone has to take something away.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10707	In accordance with Article 77, for the last time, I warn you to adhere to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10708	In accordance with what you've done to others, do to me, be free, Mr. Zvizdić. And I'm a free man, and you won't limit my freedom, because you didn't even do it to your friends.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10709	Thank you very much. The next debater is a respected representative of the Nada Mladina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10710	I keep going, and I won't... [[Employee off microphone]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10711	The Nada of the Mladina man.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10712	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10713	In accordance with article 77, you have completed your discussion. The Nada of the Mladina man. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10714	... You, Mr. Zvizdić, you're rude, you're unprincipled, and you're making scenes here. [[no microphone turned on]] You've all been allowed to tell everyone what they want, and I'm the one who talks about the subject the most... You won't get away with it, I'll keep talking. And here's what I want to tell you. It's not us...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10715	The Nada of the Mladina man. Here, you've got the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10716	I'll try to outvote Mr...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10717	... The regime, not the Austro-Hungarian Force... and neither will you. [[no microphone turned on]] We're free people here, we're gonna speak freely, and we're gonna express what we think other colleagues are doing. You're the one who's made a circus out of this now by letting everyone take away a representative of the Serbian people. You should be ashamed and I'll... I'll finish, not with your...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10718	A zastupnica of the Mladina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10719	Dear Chairman, co-chairing, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, I warmly welcome you all. About the agenda point. I am very disappointed that the arrival at a meeting of Republika Srpska MPs was the occasion of a proposal to replace Bosnia and Herzegovina's defence minister. I'm really disappointed, but it has something to do with me. What has blocked this Parliament's work is the fact that a law prohibiting the denial of genocide and banning the excellency of acts is imposed, i.e. the failure of war criminals. To deny it and therefore do not come to a session of Republika Srpska MPs, it is devastating. More and more stories are under suspicion. I want to say to Mr. Adil Osmanović, I apologize for speaking to him this way. When you say it's not our fault that the law on the ban on the denial of genocide by the High Representative - we are, it's our fault because together...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10720	Please, just allow me to read the exact agenda point, it reads – the decision to confirm the replacement of Bosnia and Herzegovina's defence minister, Mr Podžić. Therefore, it is not the point of the agenda, nor the Second World War, nor the First World War, nor the Balkan wars, nor the decision of the High Representative, etc., the decision to confirm the shift. Please and all future debaters, focus on the agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10721	I will, I'll try to focus. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10722	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10723	This was our only chance to say something to each other, but I'm not going to, I really didn't mean to prolong it, but to remind you of why institutions are blocked, which is why, in part, Parliamentarians are unblocked with this agenda point. I agree with all of those from the beginning, Mr. Đonlagić, Saša Magazinović, Helez and others, that there is no reason to replace the defence minister, especially at this time and especially not for the reasons they are quoted. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10724	Thank you very much. Honored representative Mirjana, distinguished representative Nenad Stevandić, injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10725	Article 27. - the duties of the chairman of the House, point j), create assumptions for the full exercise of the right and the exercise of the duties of MPs within the competence of the House. My right to express my opinion within the agenda point where I have made complete natural digressions and I have only referred to the members of the law that regulate this item of the agenda is challenged by your inappropriate interruption, by giving measures unestablished neither on morals nor on the Rules of Procedure. And I advertise that you have disputed by your leadership my right to present my opinion as a MP as well as others who have not spoken at all of the metrics, nor have you mentioned the members of the law. I hope you understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10726	Thank you. Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10727	Well, there'd be more rectifications here, but here, I'm really not going to step away from the agenda either. So, we've been listening here, uh, from colleagues from the parliamentary benches about what the law was violated by the actions of Minister Podžić. Even, here, we've heard that doctors know at what year we have, uh, lawyers, constitutional law, etc., just like that amazing knowledge of rights. But I would like to say that just in the motion for a decision, that is, the decision of the chairman, we have not heard those provisions. So, already some debaters have been talking about that we actually don't see in this Decision a clear legal basis and what the MPs are saying is or aren't, it's supposed to be in the decision so we can discuss it.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10728	Thank you. jasmin Emrić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10729	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Col. Stevandić cited some members of the Law on Defence in relation to the decision in question, but here I have checked and now I find that my colleague Stevandić missed because this decision has nothing to do with those members. The reasons for the decision do not state any members quoted by counterpart Stevandić. And already colleagues and colleagues have discussed it that there is no legal basis for what is being put on the burden of the respected Minister Podžić. But here, I would draw attention to fellow Stevandić and all those who have a reservation according to the work of Minister Podžić on the following. Article 15 has laid down the powers of Bosnia and Herzegovina's defence minister and under point (a) the defence minister is ordered to propose and adopt regulations, Directives and orders relating to organisation, administration, staff, training, equipment, deployment and use of the Armed Forces to ensure maximum interoperability in the Armed Forces and interoperability with NATO forces. So, it is quite clear that Minister Podžić knows his responsibilities and I am convinced that he acted in accordance with them, and that, here, was given the impression that there was no said member of the Defence Act that Minister Podžić possibly violated, as this Decision was imposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10730	Thank you. The esteemed representative Alma Čolo, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10731	Thank you, Chairman. I would refer to what my colleague Stevandić said and I think you interrupted him, the man spoke about the agenda, the agenda point, and in his discussion he referred to some of the things that we mentioned in our discussions and I think he did in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I would refer to what he said, and it refers to the provision of the BiH Constitution, Article III, in which he mentioned only one position, which is a position), which refers to everything that is not in the jurisdiction of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina taxing entities. And that is true, but he did not say, he did not look back on position d), and that is such a unilateral interpretation of the Constitution, that all entities must adhere to the BiH Constitution and decisions of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And this is actually a provision relating to the hierarchy of legal regulations in one country, that the regulations of the lower rank must comply with the rules of the higher rank. I think this Parliament is the place to discuss the provisions of the BiH Constitution. And he did it in a specific case, but, look, I'm supplementing his discussion. He also spoke about the use of forests and forest land and the dissatisfaction of the people of Republika Srpska with the decisions of the BiH Constitutional Court. I would only mention that the decisions of the BiH Constitutional Court are final and binding, that we must respect the Constitutional Court. He is part of the Dayton Peace Agreement, he is part of the BiH Constitution and his decisions we should respect. And when it comes to the specific woods, I see it means a lot to you, I would just... Republika Srpska has been exploiting forests in Republika Srpska for 30 years. [[Embassy is warned on time]] And we're all witnessing that Federation citizens are going to buy wood and windows at your place, that you have so many sawmills in the Republika Srpska area. And all these years it's been exploited. [[Embassy is warned on time]] So, uh... 32
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10732	Agenda, agenda, agenda, agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10733	... The Constitutional Court... let's sort it out. And this Parliament needs to be arranged.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10734	So, indeed, Mrs. Čolo, I did not honestly understand your discussion because I repeat the agenda point – the decision to confirm the defence minister's shift in Bosnia and Herzegovina. You are defending Mr. Stevandić, it is your business although I cannot understand what connections the forest, forest land and sawmills have to do with this agenda point, what does Bosnia and Herzegovina have to do with this agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10735	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10736	Thank you. Predrag Kožul, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10737	Well, I'd like to refer to a few allegations of colleagues who had previously discussed here, and who, I say, have praised the Secretary of Defense's decision to delay this military exercise exclusively for health and epidemiological reasons. I'd say it's at least a suspicious assumption, so I'll back it up with some facts. 18.11.2020. The armed forces of BiH and the United States had a military exercise called "Bilateral Exercise" on 18.05.'21. We had a "Quick Response 21", a military exercise with the United States again. 06.09.21. We have a military exercise at Manjaca "Combined Efforts" involving over a thousand Armed Forces of BiH. 29.09.21. in Mostar, we have a military exercise of the Armed Forces called "Nics Mostar 2021". So it simply doesn't hold me back from this information, fact or justification that this military exercise has been delayed solely for epidemiological and health reasons. I am saying this fully aware that it was a political decision, that the decision and the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers contained political elements, but that the vote on all these decisions in this House will have a strong political seal. And that's it, and that's not good. But here, because of the integrity of the information I really want to say. It is clear that in public lately we have had other speculations and reasons why this military exercise has been delayed. I wouldn't go in, I'm not trained to enter, nor competent, for those reasons, etc., but it was important to me because of the integrity, given that this is a very comprehensive debate, to say that I'm skeptical of this fact, which the fellow MPs have presented here, that health reasons are the only motive for delaying this exercise.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10738	Thank you. Zlatan Begić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10739	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, very briefly. You know, the tragedy of Parliament, I apologize for the qualification I'm about to use, indeed. Parliament is a place where the views of political nature are expressed and therefore it is necessary to be careful not to cross a line that actually makes up an ordinary chat room from Parliament. You see, I'm obliged to warn you here today. And the correction of the false quote actually refers to all the allegations we've heard, various and different allegations regarding the interpretation of the Constitution, the law, the jurisdiction, and the point of the agenda. So there is Article III 5, there is Article III 3. b). And it's not true that it's enough to finish the first year of law school and be able to competently interpret the Constitution. He's been learning that his whole life. I'm sure colleagues and colleagues here who come from other professions are top professionals in their professions, but quite bravely today they enter a matter where, I can say, they're not very good at it. In fact, what I've been able to see is mostly read from some papers. So responsibility is not borne by those who bring these attitudes here, but by those who write them. There are people who know and thus their responsibility is greater, for in this way they lead astray people who express such attitudes. But, of course, there are also those who declare themselves experts in certain areas without having completed their basic studies at the Faculty of Law. I'm not talking about my fellow MPs, I'm talking about those who write the paper and deliver it to the MPs. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10740	Thank you. We're going to the discussion, Alma Čolo, third correction of the wrong quote, that's not allowed. Let's move on, Ljubica Miljanović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10741	Thank you, Chairman. I would only like to underline that once again, if we had come back here to the assembly benches that the reason was the replacement of the defence minister, Mr. Podžić, for the reasons of violations of the law, which have already been listed here several times, and the violation of the BiH Constitution. In doing so, we do not question the goodness and human characteristics of Mr Podžić, we can talk about it elsewhere. And what you are accusing us of blocking the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the work of the Parliamentary Assembly can be said that it is because of the double arches of the international community that can justify the adoption of the Law, Mr Inck, on the denial of genocide in Republika Srpska. I would ask the international community and ask the question – is it the same and whether it is the same tears of every mother no matter what name that mother wears when she loses her child, whether it's Fatima, Katarina or maybe Ljubica. The NATO bombing that was in these premises in '92. She was killed by two children, and 15 days ago, she lost a third child.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10742	Please, I respect your speech just back to the agenda. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10743	The point of the agenda is to accuse us of blocking the work of the Parliamentary Assembly. 34 _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] It's not a point, it wasn't even a point to tell you that we go in and out when Mr. Milorad Dodik says. Serbian member of the presidency, Mr. Milorad Dodik is the president of the largest ruling party...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10745	Ma'am, please, I'm warning you, article 77. Rules of Procedure, agenda point – change of Minister Podžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10746	We have already spoken of the shift of Minister Podžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10747	Okay, thank you. Let's move on, Sanja Vulić, discussion, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10748	Thank you. Well, I have to say, I get the impression that we didn't listen to the same explanation of the Council of Ministers or we didn't read the same decision. But, who knows, maybe in this time until we came to Sarajevo, there were some things that happened, such as writing changes in our three pots. But what I want to point out is that it is loud and clear – there is no need to compromise the practice of work outside the jurisdiction and outside the law. The Secretary of Defense is the only minister who has two deputies and no reason to do so. The Joint Staff also has Chief of Staff and two deputies. It is not the defence minister who decides for himself without the Presidency, especially in relation to the responsibilities of the Bureau under the Defence Act, Article 11. - Command and control. The presidency, acting towards the consensus, has top command and control over the Armed Forces. The chairman of the Council of Ministers called on the minister to put the decision out of force. And since that was not the decision to replace Minister Podžić is something to expect, something that would be very supportive in a normal civilized world. However, I wrote this down so that I would not go past all of this in the Decision in an explanation, but what is a fact and what all my colleagues should know is that Mr. Podžić's adviser, Fazić, or Fazlić, did not matter, he said, and the media announced it, we delayed the exercise due to Serbia's aggressive performance towards Bosnia and Herzegovina. And now you colleagues here are disdaining us, humiliating us, making us crazy, crazy, as it is for some kind of epidemiological reason. I will remind you, and so said counterpart Lovrinović, Kožul, sorry, had members of the BiH Armed Forces working together with the Amerikanac and EUFOR and at that time the pandemic was, and indeed the coronary virus ruled, there was no delay for epidemiological reasons. What are you trying to tell us? That these Serbian Armed Forces soldiers are callin' out, that they're contagious, that maybe they're doing active radiation wider, and that's why you drove them away, that's why you delayed that exercise. And when Amerikanac come to you they spread love, spread positive vibration and they actually need Bosnia and Herzegovina. Now, that's what you wanted to say. 35 Says one of his colleagues – Zoran Tegeltija only humiliated himself. I'm sorry, Mr. Tegeltija didn't just, you humiliated yourself, you humiliated yourself by claiming that this decision/initiative of the Chairman's Council of Ministers was unfounded, that there were no arguments for it. And given that the chairman, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the law, has fulfilled all the norms and has done everything that the Chairman of the Council needs to do, has even called on the Minister to withdraw that decision, then you say Tegelti is only humiliating himself. No, gentlemen, you're making cartoons out of yourself because you're convincing us otherwise. I have no problem that Podžić will remain a minister, I can even say that the deputy defence minister is coming from my town and if the shift of Podžić would happen, perhaps it would be best for us to get another personnel solution. In this regard, I would prefer to have a shift. I know you won't do it because you are calling on that Bosniak unity of yours, which I am openly telling you again, I envy, but I also do not allow anyone to belittle the elected representatives of the Srbin in this House. Zoran Tegeltija is someone we can all learn from, and you who think that you are experienced, too smart, transformed and so on, I show you respect for it all, this one, but you also can't say that Zoran Tegeltija has humiliated himself, because you self-indulgent gentlemen because you don't want to admit that the problem is that the exercise was actually meant to be with the soldiers from Serbia. And if any other soldiers had come to you, they would have been good to you, and you would have embraced them and said, "Yes, that is great, we are going to this exercise." And don't confuse the public, spread your disinformation with your unity, where I say again, I envy you, it's not true that they were the cause of the epidemiological measures, the reason they came to Bosnia and Herzegovina, is the only reason soldiers came from Serbia. Also, when we mentioned temporary funding, Mr Podžić, here because we have very good relations with Serbia from Republika Srpska, I will tell you when Minister Podžić came to Minister Stefanović at the time he tried to point out somewhere that it is not a good idea to keep that exercise between the Serbian Army and the Armed Forces of BiH, so he said -- well, you know, we don't have a budget, we don't have money for fuel. That's what Minister Stefanović said -- no problem, here's what Serbia will pay for, it's no problem. And now you, Minister Podžić, tell me what the problem is, Serbia has provided fuel? Don't tell me you have a problem with the accommodation, that you needed money for it because you have containers, don't tell me that your problem and food is because today in your warehouses, right, you have groceries that you could feed those soldiers. What's the problem, Minister Podžić? Who gave you the warrant? I don't believe that either Đonlagić or everyone here whose party you come from gave you a warrant, but tell us who. Did the queen of diplomacy give you the order of Biser Turković – we cannot have an exercise with Serbia. Just tell us the truth, and it's not a problem. Here, and I'll vote against your shift if you're a jack and you tell me what the real reason is. Your problem is that it's Serbia. It's not like you, knowing you, it's not personal to you, but someone is. And here you speak of such qualifications as respect for Parliament, this, that, higher, lower. Listen, Mrs. Čolo, I respect you, but for me, there is no more parliament and no more institutions than my Republika Srpska. And of course I respect the conclusions of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, because it is devastating for me that you, Mr. Chairman, are letting us talk about what we want here, and then when colleagues like Stevandić come forward, then blames the quote, it is not the agenda and the rest. Be consistent. But I have to admit it's no wonder you're not consistent because now you're an independent MP, so you have to collect...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10749	Agenda, I warn you, article 77. Lucky you're done. Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10750	Well, I'm here to correct the false allegations of a colleague who says the chairman of the Council of Ministers has done everything that was supposed to be discussed here on the replacement of the defence minister. I will say again that this is not true because here it is merely in the explanation of the legal basis in terms of who can and how to make the decision on the change, and in the reasons for making it, therefore, it is stated in the explanation that it has violated the Law on Defence, etc., by not citing any concrete member of the Law on Defence, and in particular the Constitution on which very envious knowledge has been shown, especially by people who are not lawyers and not experts in constitutional law. So I want to point that out again. And I really don't know what Bosniak unity a colleague is talking about. I think it is really forgotten here that other peoples and ostali live in the Federation of BiH, and that, you see even here, there are some Srbin in Parliament, so I don't really see here what Bosniak unity is really about.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10751	Thank you. Representative Sanja Vulić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10752	Well, when it comes to the discussion of my colleague Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, I suggest, I said nicely what law it is, it is about the Law of Defence, Article 11. - Command and control, and since you are a kind lawyer here you are, you can finely interpret it, and I suggest, since you are the greatest initiator of the law to propose the law that in Parliament only lawyers can be because all other people in other professions are not enough frames to sit here. Here, since the election law changes are coming, you have a great reason to do this. And when it comes to Srbin, this, of course, Srbin live in the Federation. What you are, you represent yourself as a Srpkinja and you represent Bosniak interests is your business and your legitimate right, but I can say that there are only 10 Srbin elected from Republika Srpska here in this House and these are true Srbin who advocate the interests of the Serb people. I am proud that we in Republika Srpska are giving all rights to all peoples, both Hrvat and Bošnjak, and ostali, which is not an example of the Federation, which I can best confirm by my example, because I was born in this city, and I have no place to live in it and to fight for the true rights of Srbin, or people from whom I come.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10753	Thank you. Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, not keeping the established agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10754	Well, yes, I would really say here that a colleague does not adhere to the topic and established agenda, and the work is not invited to share certificates on who is a larger or smaller Srbin. I was born in Serbia, with my roots in Serbia. So I don't think she's really invited to talk about whose interests I'm defending here. I am here defending the interests of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and to this we are all bound by the oath we took when we came to this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10755	Thank you. 37 Let's get back to the agenda. Predrag Kojović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10756	I thank the chairman. I will, in my very brief discussion, take the opportunity and a few comments on things that were said earlier, but since it will be a very short discussion I hope you will allow me. I'm sorry that you are, I think today we're talking about a topic that 90% of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina are not discussing, and we're not talking about the topic that 90% of the citizens are talking about. And apparently this one schizophrenic situation, in which we representatives of citizens who at this point are concerned only about one thing that we don't talk about today, produces tensions. And I think that in those tensions, although I really disagree with 90, perhaps more than one percent with my colleague Stevandić in his views, you may have been in some way selective in applying, uh, sanctions of taking away words from him. Although, if only I could make one comment, I understand because it's not rare in federal states, Mr. Stevandić, to have jurisdiction disputes, what is federal and what belongs to federal units. In many countries in the world, these disputes are being conducted by the federal government and there is a procedure. And you know as the man who is in this House that at this moment these powers that have been transferred in accordance with the BiH Constitution to...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10757	Excuse me, agenda item – change of Minister Podžić, not transfer of jurisdiction or jurisdiction of state and entity. Please return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10758	I understand. I'll take it. I think it's very good, and I commend Mr. Podžić for canceling the exercise. The images of police exercises in Jahorina and the surrounding town of Mrkonjic The city, in an already extremely tense political atmosphere that is ruling in the country, would further upset our citizens and I think the pictures of military exercises that would appear around this same period would, uh, just, as I would say add to these tensions. To tell you the truth, I haven't had a chance in the course of previous discussions, although I wanted to hear it, to see legal facts that unequivocally show a harsh violation of the law, the rules and the way decisions were made, I didn't really, uh, see here as legal facts. But I can see that there is a great desire for Mr. Tegeltija, that this is very important to him because this is the first opportunity that the elected representatives of Republika Srpska have now appeared at this session and the Council of Ministers that has not had, as we have heard in previous exhibitions, a session for three months. And I think, of course, that this is famous Mr. Tegeltija, here I will remind him, if it is indeed, if Mr. President Tegeltija thinks that it is a harsh violation of the law, that the authority of him as the chairman of the Council of Ministers has been undermined, there is the possibility that you should replace, Mr. Tegelri, Minister Podžić without support, which you obviously do not have, in this House, and that is, whether, when you resign, it is automatically considered that all ministers, including Minister Podžić, have resigned. And if you really care so much about it, and if you think that at this moment where we are at this point, this is the only point worth your coming to the most legislative body in this country, this is a procedure that you can do very easily and simply by your will what you propose to Parliament, which Parliament obviously does not support. Thank you. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10759	Thank you. Safet Softić, Iduscusion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10760	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. And my discussion will be as brief as Kojović's colleagues, and I really didn't have an excessive need to answer, especially when in this House I appreciate that the debates we are having are about barren and that somehow they remind us and return us to some old times that we would rather all here in this hall probably like to forget. When we come to issuing certificates to each other who is such a Bošnjak, Srbin or Hrvat then it's certainly quite fun for the public but it's very harmful for this institution and for what we, this one, need to do here and what our obligation is. I, like my colleagues in this House, voted here for Mr Podžić as minister, and at the same time I voted in favour of the Council of Ministers Chairman Mr Tegelti. Today, Mr Tegeltija, as chairman of the Council of Ministers, suggested to us the replacement of his defence minister, Mr Podžić, came out for a pay phone, and along with this agenda point and his initiative brought MPs from Republika Srpska, or SNSD MPs back to this hall. I believe that after this part of the agenda, they will leave this room again and that is why I express my regret, but at this point I am grateful to Mr. Podžić, which, even in this way, has allowed us to sit together and talk. Because when we don't talk, when we're not at the same forums, when we're not where the Constitution obliges us, and the law, I think it's a very big problem for all of us and for this country. What counterpart Kojović said earlier, we live at a time when we, as elected politicians, are asked whether there will be a war in this country. This is really one situation where we all need each other together and we need to feel very much responsible for what we're doing, and also for every spoken word here and outside of this room. I want, therefore, as someone who voted for Mr. Podžić and Mr. Tegelti to give my opinion of them both. With Mr. Podžić as defence minister, I worked in the House of Nations for four years in the past term, and what I can say with certainty and reliability is that he is an honorable man and that he is a professional in his work. And I believe that this whole situation has led to Mr Podžić, as someone responsible for his job, becoming a victim of complicated political relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that's basically one of the reasons why I won't vote for his shift today. Mr Tegelti and his work did not have the opportunity to meet except for his public appearance before he stood here in front of this House when he took an oath and we voted on it, but with full responsibility I can say that I have listened with great interest and that I was truly pleasantly surprised by the way this man addresses MPs, with what kind of dignity, respect, and with what, especially with what arguments he defends his views. I have greatly appreciated and respected that until today. Today Mr. Tegeltija came out and gave reasons for the replacement of one of his ministers and said he broke the law. 39 I listened carefully to all the discussions, listened carefully to his explanation. No one in this room has convinced me that Mr. Podžić has broken the law. When someone sits in the position of the minister, especially the defence minister, even in a country such as Bosnia and Herzegovina, he bears political and criminal responsibility for each of his actions. If Mr. Podžić committed a violation and violated the Law of Goodness, then Mr. Tegeltija presented his arguments to us about it, without stating any single member of the law that the minister violated. On the other hand, if he has really broken the law, Mr. Tegeltija is obliged as chairman of the Council of Ministers to initiate criminal proceedings against his minister who broke the law, if he did so, of course. I didn't hear that it was done, I didn't hear that it was done, and that's his obligation, so, as someone who, in service and in action, so, doing his job comes across that someone does or doesn't act in violation of the law. I am, therefore, convinced after this debate that I heard today, with respect for all the speakers, and with even a surprise that we are for the first time today for this time sitting in this room, actually seeing demonstrations and certain business sanctions against MPs, I really think we should get this back to normal. If there are reasonable reasons why Minister Podžić broke the law, I will vote for his shift today and ask the Council of Ministers to initiate criminal proceedings if anyone has arguments about it. If there is no argument for this, I propose the chairman of the Council of Ministers to withdraw his request because Mr. Podžić, by my court, is an honorable man, a professional in his work. And I am convinced, therefore, beyond these complicated political relations that Mr. Tegelti thinks of Mr. Podžić as I speak. So I think this farce should end, uh, we need to bring an end, we need to make a statement about everything we think. And, of course, if there are reasons and arguments for such heavy accusations for someone who has spent his entire life doing his job, uh, should be brought here in front of all of us. We didn't hear that. What Mr. Stevandić was saying is something that can be interpreted in a completely different way, so some of the side interpretations of all this can be done, but the prosecution is a place for those who break the law. For us here, political responsibility is foreseen for every word and I really, indeed, ask you, please, to bring the end slowly, to make a statement about all this. And, of course, I call on the chairman of the Council of Ministers to withdraw this request unless there are clear and precise provisions on what it is that ministers... in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10761	Thank you. jasmin Emrić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10762	I thank the chairman. I agree with my colleague, Softić, that we should bring this discussion and debate to an end and end this Decision. But here, just let me just say that this decision is based on a very, very weak explanation. The explanation of this Decision is actually just one sentence, a complex sentence that has about 60 words. Of these 60 words, 30 words are reasons for the shift, and 30 words by the chairman of the Council of Ministers have been used to speak of his authority on the work of the Council of Ministers. If you are interested in reading this explanation well. And it is somehow more important to me to have this responsibility of the Council, the chairman of the Council of Ministers' Council of Ministers' Council, which he stresses, than this is in these last 30 40 words. Because the chairman of the Council of Ministers says he is responsible for the work of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers is not working for three months. The Council of Ministers held its last regular session on 22 July 2021, and since then, the responsible chairman of the Council of Ministers has written in this explanation, I don't know why. Probably to tell us that they're not working and that he's responsible. I am surprised that this is how the defence minister's work is assessed in such a political context when they say that the minister has violated the entire Defence Act, and imagine more, and with unilateral moves violates the rule of law and internal trust. So how can it violate the rule of law for something the minister is in charge of? And those powers are contained in Article 15. Section E of the BiH Defence Act. I ask you to read it and bring this decision down in accordance with the Defense Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10763	Thank you. Representative Damir Arnaut, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10764	Thank you, Chairman. Well, you see, these discussions mention, not only Minister Podžić but also Bisera Turković, apart from Podžić. I will speak briefly in the interest of time, so I will not read 29 names that voted for the appointment both Sifet Podžić and Biser Turković, which includes all SNSD MPs, all of them, for both of those ministers who now mention. However, to touch what Mr. Emrić was talking about. It is stated, Mr. Tegeltija, at the very least, the explanation is unserious, I think. If you claim to have broken the Defense Act, you could have taken the time to write down which members exactly. Is it by any chance that a member of the BiH Defence Act, which states very clearly and precisely that everyone in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina... will work to meet the conditions for full membership of Bosnia and Herzegovina in NATO. It's also a member Zkon the Defense Act that binds everything, including you. I hope you're acting in accordance with that law. However, what drew my attention when I read your explanation is that the minister cannot, you claim that the minister cannot do what he says, I quote, that, you say, Minister Podžić has unilaterally violated the rule of law and internal trust. I thought there was a mistake, that you submitted a motion for the replacement of Minister Grubeša. One-sided moves violates the rule of law and internal trust. Minister Grubeša rejected an invitation to testify before the Investigative Commission, not one, but two, and thus made it very clear that he violated the Law on Parliamentary Control, Article 38, which says that the obligation to co-operate with the investigative body of the Parliamentary Assembly, that whoever is called from the authorities at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina is to answer those calls, to answer all questions and to co-operate with the investigative commission in any other way. It is also Minister Grubeša who has violated the rule of law by his unilateral refusal to appear before the commission. And you did not react to what it showed us, at least, inconsistency. At that time, Minister Grubeša, I can say, has limited the internal trust within the Council of Ministers, because you, as the chairman of the Council of Ministers, have responded to the Commission's call and have acted under the Law on Parliamentary Oversight, and your minister has not. So if there's a definition of a breach of internal trust, that's it. You, as chairman, act in accordance with the law, come 41 before the Commission, cooperate, your minister, and that justice, most called upon to come before us on this matter, refuses. Therefore, it really seemed like an explanation for the replacement of Minister Grubeša. And here I see one complete inconsistency in this approach. But it does not come from you alone, it comes from the entire ruling coalition, because when the Commission proposed to this House the replacement of Minister Grubeša to disobey the Law on Parliamentary Oversight, we listed concrete members here, SNSD, HDZ and the SDA voted against the shift of Minister Grubeša. And that's why the House of Representatives didn't approve of his shift. I'm really sorry that you didn't accept the Commission's proposal at the time, I'm sorry that most of them stood behind Minister Grubeša, but here it turns out that you're not so stable anymore. And I can only join what my colleague Kojović told you, Mr. Tegeltija, I think if you don't have a majority. If you really want to do something about the Council of Ministers law, it gives you a very, uh, clear way to do it. If you really want to resign, that is, from that moment on, the entire Council of Ministers' meeting in resignation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10765	Thank you. Nikola Lovrinović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10766	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, just at the beginning, uh, colleagues of Arnaut, so it wasn't an investigative commission, it was a committee of investigators and she was doing an illegal job, and... according to the Rules of Procedure, it's true. But that's not what the chairman would say if he didn't warn me. In fact, I was really listening to the discussion today, and I didn't have too much desire, as my colleague Softić said, to report, but this one seems to me to have to come forward anyway, to say what he thinks about this topic. He also said well that his colleague Magazinović, therefore, is very careful about what he says, and I will speak what I think, and I will try to make sure that the words are chosen. So he kind of said, so I'm gonna use that, too. And he said well that this might be even today a chance to start a new beginning, so my suggestions that I'll finally make about this decision might be if we can get there. I, in fact, respect the moment at which Mr. Minister made the decision to postpone or cancel this military exercise, and Mr. Chairman said that there was a policy in this Decision, and yet, with all due respect to it, this one, compared to that policy decision, as he himself said, there had to be some policy in the decision to submit it as a request for his shift. Slagworth for what I'm going to suggest was given to me by a fellow Osmanović who said he knew nothing about what OHR was doing, there in his discussion when there was a story about the law, so that he also knew nothing and knew nothing about what the Constitutional Court was doing. Come on, that's it, so maybe it is and I believe it and I accept it, but I don't think my colleague Osmanović knows which parliamentary majority he is in or doesn't want to know. And it's not today, but a longer period of time, so simply the SDA doesn't know what parliamentary majority it is. And the main culprit for all this state of affairs in this House, and even these points of today's agenda, is, in my opinion, the work and behavior of colleagues from the SDA. And for this reason, I suggest to Mr. Tegeltija that this decision be amended and that today it proposes the shift of both Mr. Cikotić and Mrs. Turkovićl. So, Mrs. Turković's work and 42 today were spoken, and you all said, so we know well, and the consuls who send from above and what they send and how she unilaterally acts and works. So there are a lot of elements to suggest and her shift, you amend this decision today. And I will remind you about Mr. Cikotić, therefore, that we were not even in favour of him being a member of the Council of Ministers by citing his role in the war and possible involvement in the war crime in Bugojn. And after that, we once again showed you that a court case was returned after the prosecution's intervention. Also, there were far stronger elements to trigger his shift than perhaps Mr. Podžić. In order for you to have the opportunity to do this, I'll request a half-hour break, on behalf of the club, since this dropped an ad hoc here in the debate. I hope that this discussion will be agreed by my Club, where we now have this break, and that you propose an amendment to this Decision, so that you propose the shift of both Mr Cikotić and Mrs Turković and that we declare it today. And I suggest to you, if that's not enough for you to do so today, then give up the motion to vote today, so that it can go back to the next session, then we can make a decision on the shift. And I call on my colleagues from the opposition parties to join HDZ and the SNSD to propose ministers from the Bosniak people, since apparently the SDA makes everything seem to be a parliamentary majority, and they don't like this parliamentary majority, so let them go into opposition and there's no problem, therefore. I suggest to my colleagues in the opposition that they join HDZ and SNSD, to propose to the ministers that we can appoint them immediately today and that we have a new parliamentary majority, so let the SDA then work on behalf of the citizens, on behalf of the state, on behalf of whoever they want. I'm calling you. Thank you very much. I'm looking for a half-hour break. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10767	Wait a minute, wait a minute, Mr. Lovrinović is asking for a half-hour break. I suggest it's also a possible lunch break. Well, if it's okay with you, it's 3:15 to move on, here's when the club presidents want it at 16:15. _________(?) At 4:15. At 4:15. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10771	I don't need it right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10772	Thank you, Mr. Lovrinović. We continue with the discussions. The discussion was attended by Mr. Enver Bijedić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10773	I welcome the chairman and chairman, of course all present in the O.R. With regard to what Mr. Zvizdić's chairman insists this is a agenda and order, and the issue is the shift of Minister Podžić. I think there's been a change of thesis here, that Mr. Podžić should be rewarded, and no change at all because what he did in the previous period is anyway for the prize. Everyone who understands themselves in military tactics knows that maintaining exercises is always a defensive character and is always directed against attacking that country from the neighborhood. In the former Yugoslavia, the exercises were organised in such a way that we received threats from Hungary's infantry, or aircraft from Italy, Bulgaria's part of the traps, etc. In this current military exercise that was meant to be held together, means Armed Forces from Serbia, the Armed Forces from Bosnia and Herzegovina, we are scheduled to defend ourselves from someone in the military exercise. As far as I know, there are only two other neighbours, that is Croatia, the Republic of Croatia and Montenegro, who are members of NATO. So this military exercise was designed to show us that we, along with Serbia's Armed Forces, will defend against NATO. So, the mistake was, in essence, the appointment of the exercise and the gentleman, Minister Podžić came into the situation to get chestnuts out of the fire and to practically resolve the previous issue of the appointment of the exercise, which was completely unwarranted. And so absolutely, so I'm against, of course, his shifts and if there's any way he should even be rewarded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10774	Thank you. We don't have any more charges to discuss. I'm closing the debate. Now we will vote, Mr. Lovrinović, on the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10775	I apologize, perhaps I should have even accepted a moment ago when you offered me something to say, but I expected that the proposal I made to Mr. Chairman, however, Mr. Chairman, would be made acceptable to him. So, let me remind you, two proposals, one proposal was to amend and supplement the decision and add two other ministers to the shift, and the second proposal was that if there was not enough time for today, it might insist on, this, today, not voting today on its proposal, but on the next session until, and to get time to eventually correct or propose this Decision in another form. So, I'd like to see if Mr. Chairman has thought anything about, whether he wants to manifest himself or not. So I should know some kind of answer after all. Thank you very much. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10776	Thank you. I called you the first time, and I called you just because you had an additional question. The breach of the Rules of Procedure Damir Arnaut, and of course, the chairman may address if he considers it necessary and similar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10777	Thank you, Chairman. I think I'm just saying that what Mr. Lovrinović is proposing is not in line with Articles 153 to 155. Rules of Procedure. It is very clear how, uh, the minister's shift is proposed, etc. However, if Mr. Lovrinović wants to take effect now, I see that Mr. Kojovic is impatient, what Mr. Kojović was talking about, if the chairman of the resignation of that moment, those seconds the entire Council of Ministers is in resignation and the House of Representatives then he should only appoint a new council. It doesn't go to the House at all, like the Minister's shift goes to both homes. When chairing the Council of Ministers that the resignation of the Council of Ministers falls and all that remains then is for the House of Representatives to appoint a new assembly. That resignation is not confirmed here or in the House of Peoples, it's just called a new council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10778	Okay, thank you. The chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10779	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The consultations in this break told me that it is not possible to do business as Mr. Lovrinović suggests. To have a single point on the agenda, it's the decision I suggested here. Eventually, if my cabinet comes up with a proposal concerning these two ministers, of course, I will make a statement and if I find it appropriate to prepare them, of course, if they are, if I consider anything, the conditions for resolving one, both ministers, the minister and the minister mentioned here... I remain in my position to make a statement today about this decision that is on the agenda. Of course, I don't know if there are any rules here that in some closing word, but I would really need to do a lot of things with a very decent dictionary, much nicer than some MPs have talked about me and the work of the Council of Ministers, to answer some of these questions, but, look, obviously that...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10780	We'll stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10781	It's not a principle. I'm talking about work, about how I made the decision, I'm just sticking to the agenda. I absolutely wouldn't be questioning the debates of the institution and so on. 45 Just one sentence to say, it was discussed at a meeting of the Council of Ministers on this Decision by Minister Podžić, as you said... delivered to the Council of Ministers. There's one more thing I want to say to you, no matter what the defence minister's name is Mitrović or Košarac, possibly Tegeltija, if he had done this kind of thing, I would have made the same decision. And in particular, the discussion of Mr. Bijedić gives me the right to do good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10782	Thank you very much. So, like I said, no more reported. We've closed the debate. Now, in accordance with Rule 162 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, we will declare a decision to confirm the replacement of the defence minister of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Please let us vote. Out of the 27 people present -- the vote voted 7, against was 20, no one was abstentioned. Therefore, there is no general majority and no decision on the removal of Bosnia and Herzegovina's defence minister has been adopted. We're moving to the point of the four agenda, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law amending Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law, Proponents Nermin Nikšić, Saša Magazinović, Nada Mladina and Zukan Helez, Law No: 01-02-1-863/21, since 21/04.2021, shortened procedure (first reading) At the 22nd House session, held on 07.07., no negative opinion of the Constitutional Commission was accepted, and the Commission was tasked with making up a new opinion, in accordance with Rule 113(3) of the Rules of Procedure. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion. The Commission found that the draft law is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and supported the principles of the bill. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10784	I thank the chairman. I should point out that it is necessary to repeat the vote on the minister's shift because there seems to be some kind of error in the work of the system. Four HDZ colleagues were in the hall, here they are still, but the monitor showed they were not present. So the service might need to see what's going on with their monitors so they can register how it really was in the O.R.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10785	Thank you. We'll certainly do that. We'll check the credibility of the vote and the registration. I give the word to Mr. Magazinović. Here you go. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10786	The law we have already discussed is very simple – the internal threshold decreases from 20 to 10%. In an explanation, we have put it to help make the schedule of elected majority decisions on the number of votes, not so much party will as to who is in which place. So we've talked about it two or three times, so I'm not taking up your time, we all know what it's all about, so the reduction of the internal threshold from 20 to 10%.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10787	Thank you. Representative Lovrinović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10788	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I came forward for one simple reason to explain one situation that was on the Constitutional Commission yesterday. So, I am a member of the Constitutional Commission and at the beginning of the work of that Committee, I have suggested that this point and another point relating to constitutional amendments be taken off the agenda of that session yesterday, and that, of course, the Constitutional Commission continue to work on other points, and there were six or seven others. The President of the Constitutional Commission has been very incorrect in the media, therefore, conveying my view that I have joined the blockade, to block, that I am such and so on, but that's what I and she will discuss once. So, I came to the session, I suggested that... two points, the truth... for the sake of truth, I suggested that last time, I suggested that because these are precisely these points, such as the amendment of the Election Law and, as constitutional amendments, are just neural, one of the most neural issues these last months, so in our Parliamentary Assembly, even in the political public of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I suggested we postpone for another time to discuss it. Because why did I think about it, and I didn't say it on the Constitutional Legal Commission, the lady is the president of the Committee for the Preparation of Amendments to the Election Law, so that they don't call it the Committee when it is, therefore, but there their colleagues from the Constitutional Mud on the media press. So, I came to the session, I suggested mine. When it was clear that it was going to be a revote, therefore, because I simply as I could not do anything, and even with Mr. Mektić who was there, so I suggested to try to find a solution. So, if Mrs. President of the Committee for the Amendment to the Election Law so that all these changes don't fit in, that material that needs to come to us. Which doesn't summon the President of the Committee when that's the case. So, it's just not like that, it's not gonna be that, maybe I'm intimate and for this solution that Saša Magazinović is talking about, I may not have anything in principle against such a proposal for amendments to the Electoral Law, but we're working on it, we're fighting, we're looking for, personally, some other issues are more important to me, and that's what I said, and there's no point, so. I got up to just say I won't support this because I expect, therefore, you're making proposals for amendments to the Election Law, especially those that interest my club, my party, so I myself. And I hope it happens, not like this, so after the session of the Constitutional Commission I block, I don't block, and I'm in session. That doesn't make sense, that colleague doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10789	Thank you. Representative Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10790	Mr. Lovrinović, I was in the capacity of the promoter about two points yesterday at a session and I think it was obvious that it was a blockade. The conclusions were proposed, the moment they weren't adopted, you went out and left. And it seems to be going in the direction of what's now been done. And that's why I'm the chairman. I'm asking you to take this seriously. Yesterday, Mr. Lovrinović left the room, now five HDZ MPs remain in the O.R., and turned off their monitors to show the system that they are not present. It violates both the letter and the spirit of the Rules of Procedure. And I'm asking the chairman to take this seriously, it's unacceptable that five people sit in the O.R., the vote goes off, five of them shut down, and then the system logs to stay so they weren't there. Tomorrow when someone takes, uh, the report from this session will say that the five MPs who lived here were, we all watch them, they'll say they weren't there. Well, it's a roadblock. And that's why I think there are conditions to repeat the vote. I question the results of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10791	Okay, we're done here. Let's move on. Alma Čolo, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10792	Thank you, Chairman. I really have an obligation to say what was going on on the Constitutional Commission, not only on this last one, but on the one where Mr. Lovrinović left the session and thus made it impossible for us to quorum for full work and decision-making. He proposed at the Constitutional Legal Commission, in a previous session that was held in September of the month, that we postpone the session because representatives from Republika Srpska did not come. I said that I don't have such an opportunity in my Rules of Procedure because someone didn't come to the session to postpone the session. Full effort to decide the session is five out of nine members. We had five members at the time, Mr. Lovrinović when we started with the session he left the session. About yesterday's session, he came to the session and was the sixth member of the Commission, so he also came out to me with a quorum for full work and decision-making. When its points proposed to be removed, when the points proposed to be removed from the agenda were not adopted by members of the Constitutional Righteous Neighbours, the members did not agree to remove it from the agenda, he left the Commission's session. It gave me all of this, uh, for the right to comment, and I think I have the right to express my position in the media, to put myself on the side of the MPs from Republika Srpska who boycott the work of the institutions of Parliament, the institutions of the state, not only of the Parliamentary Assembly, but of the competent bodies, and that is the Constitutional Commission. I'd still look back on this, he said I was the president of the Interresor Working Group to amend the election law, which I'm not calling a session. I cannot call a sitting because the Rules of Procedure adopted at the Interresor Working Group, to the insistence of the members of the SNSD and HDZ, is so rigid that they cannot call as chairman a session without the consent of two vice-presidents, this is Mr Bariša Čolak and Mr Sredoje Nović. Mr. Bariša Čolak is ready to organise the session, Mr. Sredoje Nović is not and I cannot call this session. Thank you. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10793	Thank you. Mr. Lovrinović, correcting the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10794	Well, you see, therefore, HDZ is ready, and you said HDZ is settled. Now you're saying Bariša Čolak is ready. Yesterday my colleagues were on other committees, the gentleman was on one commission, the gentleman chaired the other, you say HDZ was put aside, you didn't tell Nikola Lovrinović. So, colleagues like you say you have certain rights, I have the right to come and leave something I don't like. So I can't testify to anything that's gonna happen, and you know I'm not happy with that. In the previous session, I asked for the additional time that the Rules of Procedure provided for the plea, you did not swear. So, you as the president of the Interresor Working Group for the Amendment of Election Law should probably look for a solution to resolve this, including these issues of the Election Law, the agenda is the Election Law. So, you put this point in that solution of yours, not to warm it up again, and I said then that we were working without almost half of the Constitutional Commission on... Yesterday, constitutional changes were on the agenda, constitutional changes. Imagine, therefore, that there are no three members... so there are no homes of the people, and we have therefore debated in the Constitutional Law, or you have debated without any agreement. And I don't know what that leads to. That's the story I'm talking about the U.S.A., so you decide what you want once, decide what you want. If you want a solution in this country, then listen to others. I've come, I've said my position, I have the right to disagree with that, I'm interested in election law other questions, I don't care what you're interested in. Am I right? I do. So I suggested, and what would happen, ultimately, you know that neither this election law nor constitutional change will get anywhere, you know that as well as I do. And on purpose, therefore, I was saying it, which you didn't say, I was saying – let the people try, and I would stay on the Constitutional Commission to work further if it were the will to make a deal. It is you who force solutions to think that by pushing a solution will come up with a total solution. He'll never come, he won't, and today he said to the College of Zvizdić, just vote, vote, raise your hands and just accuse others. So HDZ can't change election law, but it can block. All HDZ can do is SNSD, but the SDA can't do anything. And we, we want the Electoral Law, we can't come to a decision at all to change the Electoral Law, and we can block, We can do that. [[Employee is warned on time]] You're blocking it. You're just easily transferring it to others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10795	Thank you. Dear Representative Begić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10796	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, here, I first pressed the not holding the agenda, I think we left the agenda, and I think we should put a little bit more on these... that we're stuck with here. It's like a fellow Republika Srpska entity locked it in the basement and didn't want them to attend a session of the state body. That's how we present the problem here. I don't want 49 voting until they get here, just like someone's holding them, so that one, the knife under their throat, won't come to them. Lock the door, don't let people in. And the way I see it here, I've been listening here for three years, and I've heard it since Pajo Patko, Miki Maus, and I know about Mr. Lovrinović and the many people sitting here, and I've grown up next to them, and I've heard the term of voting in democracy. You can imagine. If there is any democracy without voting, is there anywhere, God's people in the world? There's always a political majority and a political minority, someone who's for, someone who's against, someone who's abstention, and that's that. So I see here the impact of decades of practice in the Communist Party of the former Yugoslavia. So, one-brainer, no revote, boss said we'd do it. And, look, now I've come into a situation where I'm raising my tone, which is why I apologize here to all those present, but more of this brainwashing with revotes and this behavior, as if someone's trapped people, like he locked the door and didn't want them to come, and it won't be if it's not what I say. Oh, my Bog. Oh, my Bog. It will be as most determine and as it is in accordance with the Constitution and the law. That's how it's gonna be, not how it's gonna be. Zlatan, as Dženan wills, as Nikola wills, as anyone wills. [[Employee is warned on time]] This isn't the private institution of anyone's, this is the institution of the citizens of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10797	Thank you. Alma Čolo, correcting the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10798	Thank you, Chairman. Yeah, I'm sticking to the Rules of Procedure. The College has sent us amendments to the Constitution submitted by our party on 12.10. Yesterday was 25.10. The deadline for giving an opinion on the Rules of Procedure by the Constitutional Legal Commission is 10 days. So that deadline is 22.10. I had no reason to take it off the agenda. I may not like those amendments either, but because I don't like them, I don't have the authority to take them off the agenda. And the amendments to the electoral law proposed by the SDP, and this is what Mr. Lovrinovi asked to be removed from the agenda, and to be considered for the second time on the Constitutional Commission. First there was a negative opinion... the way. We're just considering the constitutional basis and the principles of these changes. I really don't have the authority to take it off the agenda. Most decided not to strip, Mr. Lovrinović was injured from the session. I really don't know how you should be satisfied at the sessions and exited from the norms prescribed by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10799	Thank you. Sir, agent Dženan Đonlagić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10800	Mr. Lovrinović. Mr. Lovrinović, when you returned to the O.R., where you were at all. So, just before at the previous agenda point, so you started a silent blockade, I hope that silent blockade doesn't turn into a direct blockade. So, what were you doing on the previous agenda, how are you acting? You're not allowed to make a statement, are you? You can't vote 50, turn off the monitors, and the system will register that you're not present and you're sitting in the O.R. What kind of innovation is that now? Unbelievable. So don't do that, don't get so embarrassed.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10801	Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10802	The chairman thinks that you really have an obligation now, article 90 says – The call vote applies when the chairman of the House, or at the proposal of any MPs, assesses that it is necessary to remove doubts about the regularity of the results of the vote. I think if you have no doubt about the regularity of the voting results, you see five people in the hall and five monitors off, then I don't know when there's a condition for this member to apply. I say, again, I doubt the results of the vote, I urge you to apply Article 90(1) and that the secretary then act in accordance with Article 90(2) to hold a vote by appeal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10803	Thank you. Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10804	First of all, since my previous announcement, I didn't ask Mr. Arnaut for an explanation, he was yesterday as a guest at the Constitutional Law, but Mrs. Čolo, I don't know what he's explaining to me, so what I am and who I am. So, I was talking about the parliamentary majority, my colleague Đonlagić, knows Mrs. Čolo well what I'm saying, so I don't insist on it being my way, but yesterday I said it was looking for a solution, and the solution is not to impose, not to vote, that someone doesn't have the right to vote or not to vote, it's his right, of course, but to the parliamentary majority, which is why I pulled the parallel today, saying that we have to take responsibility and look for solutions. It's not looking for a solution yesterday, so put constitutional changes where there are no people from one entity at all,... was Mr. Mektić, excuse me, and bring constitutional changes. It is known, therefore, that the outcome is known, but it is so well known that it will only bring new frustrations. That's what I was saying. Not for my own sake, not for my own sake, when it was mine. How suddenly that we are colleagues who are from the parliamentary majority suddenly more important hundreds of questions have brought with you, with an opposition which, I respect, it is the right opposition, without us. How is it now that Nikola Lovrinović is important to make quorum on the Constitutional Last time, how is it that I'm important now that I've been unimportant a million times, irrelevant. So my position on the constitutional arrangement of Bosnia and Herzegovina is well known, my position on the Electoral Law, and what interests me most about the Electoral Law is also well known. I'm not against these other technical solutions that might be a million of them when the Commission does. But, then, to bring in a situation like this and pretend like nothing's going on, which you hold in my mind, to pretend nothing's happening, I was just looking for solutions and offering solutions. What difference does it make that we plead yesterday, so I suggested asking for extra time, extra time. The lady didn't take the proposed points off the agenda, she put them on, but we as the Committee, so we can vote to take them off. So she wouldn't take them off, she respected hers, and what she said to the Rules of Procedure, according to me. But here, so it's how it is. But all right now, all of it. the end... but it doesn't make sense, so the President of the Constitutional Commission.../not 51 is understood/... [[Employee is warned on time]] HDZ has settled, and we are here today in Parliament. ...we've been And this morning in the committees for these agreements, so we respected everything. [[Employee is warned on time]] I don't think that's right, it's just proof that we can't function like this anymore, what I was saying today at... I apologize to the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10805	Thank you. Let's move on. I'm closing the argument at point four. Point five, Ad. 5. Report on the work of the BiH Law Department for 2020, issue: 01,02-50-18-1436/21, since 16.07.20121. The College of the House has designated the Constitutional Legal Commission as competent to consider this Report. The Commission delivered its opinion. The Commission adopted the Report. I am opening a debate on the report on BiH's defence work for 2020. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to agenda number six, Ad. Six. Report on the implementation of the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international commitments of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2020, applicant: BiH Presidency, issue: 01,02-16-11406/21, of 21.07. 2021.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10812	Thank you. I can't help but draw attention this time to the illegal appointment of the Central Election Commission. So today there was something about that speaking in other points of the agenda. And that's true, so no matter what is claimed. It was businessly possible and the Assembly brought the House of Representatives as it had brought it, but it was illegal. There is no list from which people are proposed to the Central Election Commission, but candidates have been kicked out of the sleeves at the session. Bog didn't let anything happen to anyone that next from the list that should replace that member of the Committee. So, that list's gone. Therefore, if the procedure had not been completed by the Committee who had the task of doing so, at least they should have taken that list that was working, and I don't know what, however, by the way. But the so-called Committee of course made further mistakes. So, I tried this report on the conduct of the local elections to find some report on the elections held in Travnik, or the re-election. I claim that the Central Election Commission until noon that day when, with all due respect, the late candidate in Travnik knew that a death case had occurred, they did not interrupt the vote. They knew for sure, they knew by 12 o'clock. The other thing they've annulled you, they've repeated those elections, the other thing, the candidates for chiefs are on the list, the single list. The rule was in all the lists, therefore, that the candidate who cannot take over his mandate succeeds him next from the list. Just in this case, no. And a number of others, therefore, mistakes made by the Central Election Commission in repeating the election for the Commissioner in Travnik, but they didn't write anything about it. That's very interesting, or I haven't found it, I apologize, if they convince me that something was written in that report, then okay, if not, so the elections are repeated, they're done as they're finished. But, then, what to expect when it's so chosen, when it's appointed. Nothing more than what it is, then. That's why their report is unacceptable to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10813	Thank you. Zlatan Begić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10814	So, the word Parliament comes from the word parlalala, which in some translation means talking, is sometimes talking to the basics, with the foundation, with the appeal to the law, and sometimes talking nonsense. So I won't be sick of every time anyone here says that the Central Election Commission 54 has been chosen illegally to say that it's absolutely not true. Just like a team riding on that story won't get tired of riding to the end. So this is just another one of the repercussions of that – I do not recognize anything that is not my way, which is tradition, the bright tradition of the Communist Party of the former Yugoslavia, whose prominent members are sitting here today only in ethnic parties. So, the Central Election Commission was elected in accordance with the law, it's detailed, there's extensive court practice when it comes to it. And, therefore, whenever someone says it's illegal, and even now incorrect, as it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure but not in accordance with the law, no, it's done by law, not by the Rules of Procedure. Here, and you know, by law, therefore, the Electoral Law. And I know that certain political parties who had the full selection of members of the Central Election Commission in their hands, so by missing the deadlines for the blockade they were carrying out, that now they were sick of not bringing the process to an end, so this was a sanction for their irresponsible behavior. I ask you to take care of the deadlines for the second time, of the legal provisions, and you will not make such guffs. But don't resist the finger is an illegal investigation committee, there's been a follow-up, there's an illegal CEC, you're just, there's you legal. Now, that's why our rule of law is here where it is, and that's why international institutions report on your illegal work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10815	Thank you. Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10816	Well, my colleague Begić, so unfortunately, I'll be here talking nonsense as long as I'm a member of Parliament. Since you're all talking about everything I'm gonna talk about here while I'm a member of this House likes you or doesn't like it, but maybe if you let me go to law school with you because you all have the right to be among your students here. So, what my colleague said, except that you're not a lawyer, you shouldn't even be here in the Parliamentary Assembly, so I shouldn't be and nobody should be, you should just be lawyers. This is Parliament, you said it yourself, so it will be him whom the people choose, and he knows what he knows, and he's talking nonsense about what he's saying. I repeat again, the Central Election Commission has been unlawfully appointed, as is the case for the establishment of judicial institutions. The illegal job worked, it wasn't named... That's what I'm talking about. [[You don't understand.]] So it's illegal to name whatever you think of it, and as far as we know independently, that I'm not repeating myself now, whose advisors are there, the people who were party until the moment they were appointed to the Central Election Commission. So, what we knew about them, now that I'm not opening the story right now, I'm going to be warned by the chairman, is not the agenda point, because we didn't know anything about them except that you knew who suggested it.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10817	Thank you. Representative Begić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10818	I don't dispute your right to talk nonsense, but slow down, that one, that I keep quiet about it. And you wouldn't mind putting in anything. Today, the concept of lifelong learning is in effect, and Bog forbid 55 to tell you we have great students in the fourth, fifth, sixth decades of life, extraordinary, and lawyers who have made envious careers, believe me. It's never too late to come to your senses. I have, uh, the right to say again that Mr. Nikola Lovrinović has made one serious lie, right, acting out of the position of immunity that he can't be sad, etc., is, as a representative, all illegal, all of them illegal, all of them like this, all of them like this, only Mr. Lovrinović is legitimate, legitimate, legitimate, and we're all left first illegal, so we're illegal, so here we are, people are illegal, so illegal commission, so illegal identification. Well, sorry to break this rule of law you've been making for 25 years. And we know very well, let's say whose advisor was the gentleman who retired as a member of the CEC, not to mention him here now, since you didn't mention him either. Don't say that, let's face it, you can't point a finger at everyone and say that he's illegal, that he's working illegally, etc., watching this citizen, but there are a lot of honest people here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10819	Thank you. Lovrinović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10820	You said rightly, I was legally and legitimately elected, 43,000 votes, 13... I didn't say they were all illegal, I said exactly who was illegal. And again, I repeat, the Central Election Commission has been appointed illegal. And I'm going to go to college, so I'm afraid I'm going to take over your department, so I wouldn't want to be, so let's keep doing it, I've had enough of what I've got.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10821	Thank you. My kolegica Krišto, correcting the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10822	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I warmly welcome you all. I listen very carefully through today's session of our House of Representatives debate, of course from the debate of correcting the wrong allegations. And, of course, I answered here, too, by whether to answer or not, but my colleague Begić offered me that when he said he had no right to remain silent. So I went out, too, buddy, because I have no right to remain silent to tell you and I again, no matter what we're at the Local Elections Report, I want to commit to that point and say that, of course, this report is made up of an illegal Central Election Commission. One part of this commission has been selected in accordance with the legal procedure, and a good part of this Central Election Commission has been chosen against the provisions of the Electoral Law no matter how much you say, no matter how much you get in the way of it, no matter how much it bothers you. And you yourself have said what democracy is, none of us want to say or impose will, we all know what democracy is... and that decisions are made, how they are made, but democracy implies and respect for procedures. In this case, there is no respect for the public tender procedure that has been announced, it was suspended at the time when a number of members of the Central Election Commission was appointed at the proposal of political parties from our House. And I think that's exactly why, one of the reasons we talked about today at the beginning, is not just about 56 imposing decisions, this, that, etc. This is exactly what many swear in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and they do not realize that it is a state of three constituent nations, of course composed of two entities and other citizens living in Bosnia and Herzegovina. If we had a little more respect for the procedures that democracy requires, according to the laws, then really Bosnia and Herzegovina would be what it takes, it would be a state of equal nations in which the rule of law would be, and not today, in a situation like this. I'm saddened by it, I wanted to keep it quiet, but really when you're looking for it, then I felt the need to repeat it to you again, and to all other colleagues who simply say it here, so today they're mentioned, so whether the HDZ blockades are how they behave. We have a feeling that we came today that one of you needs to teach us a lesson, that we should vote one way or another, or that we should act when we need to come. Just so you know, we're gonna have, like on these issues, just our own attitude. And if you think that by transferring responsibility to HDZ and the political representatives from HDZ, you will come up with a solution for this Bosnia and Herzegovina, tell us, we will support you. That's all we're for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10823	Thank you. Nermin Nikšić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10824	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, unfortunately we live, and this is our reality, we live in a country where everyone interprets the Constitution and the law from a corner that suits him more, and everyone, of course, sticks to the arguments that are on his side. It's hard to argue with any argument because when it comes down to the end somewhere it's always the truth in the middle. I belong to those MPs who voted for the appointment of this Central Election Commission and I believe that nothing illegal has been done, but, uh, of course there are institutions that can verify which of us is right and who is wrong. That's not why I answered the question, I came forward for the Central Election Commission's report and to commend some things and to point out what I'm not happy with when it comes to this Central Election Commission. So, when we appointed the Central Election Commission, and we didn't lie before this Central Election Commission were members who had had contact with political parties, even, uh, members, were parliamentarians, not to speak now about how these were, having contact with a political party or being close to a political party, so when we chose the Central Election Commission, my key commitment was to answer the question whether they were willing to work on the introduction of an electronic vote when it comes to elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And to their positive answer, I've given my support and I have to show satisfaction that they've started talking about, that they're working, that they're running some kind of activity on it. I want to encourage them and give them support to, uh, bring it all to an end. What I am not satisfied with and which has not shown much difference compared to the previous Central Election Commission is the attitude towards the Mostar elections, where we have identified in 15 polling stations so many irregularities, so many invalid and stolen ballots, and the Central Election Commission did not have the courage to make a decision to count all ballots again. I don't think it's a good practice and it won't give them the right to behave like that in the future, but, look, this time we'll give support for this report, with the expectation that it will bring to an end the activity they promised when we gave support to their choice. Thank you. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10825	Thank you. Representative Begić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10826	Dear colleagues and colleagues. The Democratic Front Club believes that the report is methodologically correct, in a very correct way and the Democratic Front Club will support the Central Election Commission's report. Just one more, very short note, so I don't go beyond the limits of the agenda, please talk here several times today about this country being three constitutive peoples. It's, I take it as a message to myself and to myself, and to our families, that we should leave this country. There are us who don't belong to the constituent nations and it would be strong if nothing, polite and collegiate, not just for us here, but also for our citizens we represent, to take care of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10827	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 11, Ad. 11. Considering the initiative of MP Saša Magazinović, who is in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to submit the proposal for a framework law on climate change within six months, No. 01-50-11828/21, from 01.10.2021. The House College has designated the Constitutional Commission as competent to consider that initiative. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion and adopted the initiative. I'm opening a debate on this initiative. Agent Helez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10829	I thank the chairman. The promoter is Saša Magazinović, asked me for a few sentences. So, the Climate Change Act is something that is waiting for us to, whether, approaching the European Union, something that is in the world's trend and something that decides elections in many of the world's leading countries. I remind you that one of the pre-elections in the winner's German election race, where the SPD received the largest number of votes, was one of the key topics of climate change. It's something that's a global problem, it's something that, uh, we can't divide by entities, here's to 58 of all happiness, but what we wouldn't be surprised at is that, uh, someone says -- here goes, the wind blows from the Federation to Republika Srpska, who knows what they're going to bring us, or -- here's a cloud crossing this entity line, who knows what's in it. So I urge you not to share here at least where we cannot share to support this initiative and to task the Council of Ministers to propose a law to us in accordance with European norms and rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10830	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Point 12, Ad. 12. Proposal for a declaration of candidate status for membership in the European Union, Proposer: MP Nikola Lovrinović, number: 01-50-1-15-22/21, link: 01-02-1-1390/21, of 07.07.20121. At last session of the House in the second round of voting, it was decided that the item should be included in the agenda of today's session. You've got this Declaration, this material. I'm opening a debate on the proposal for a declaration. Representative Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10832	Proposer, chairman, so then, what would you say Mr. Arnaut I have and... So, you see, I'm kind of not blocking it, I'm kind of active today, and since I'm blocking something, as some colleagues say. So I'm going to say something about this act that's really a little bit, in a way, late, and I'm going to say these few things just because of some of the wrong interpretations that came up in the media, like, Let's say in "Free Bosnia" or I don't know anyone else, that I'm not calling now, not maliciously, but, therefore, they're transferring from the agenda this declaration which, according to them, is funny at this point, etc., and they forget that, and there, on their page, they published, so the text when it was admitted to the protocol, that it was the beginning of the seventh month. And that really made sense back then. Let me remind you that back then we were, especially us colleagues, here from the so-called. The parliamentary majority, if we were close even to the three laws of those 14 priorities, we were on a certain trail of agreements to adopt them in some way, so I would remind you that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement even passed this House, if I am not mistaken, was to go to the House of Peoples. So we were somewhere near except for the three or four others we had already met, such as the Mostar elections, the formation..., so the amendments to that law in Republika Srpska on the death penalty, so we were on the trail of these three laws and we came close to that finding to show a credible, credible effort for membership in the European Union, in order to grant us candidate status. But then what happened happened, now that I'm, uh, not re-reading, and it's all stopped. So, above all, there were delays in Parliament's session, there was a second round of voting to get this declaration into the agenda. And, namely, my intention was, like, here in the second term, 59 of the Presidents of the Committee on European Integration, to show Parliament about one of our positions, because as far as I'm aware, we didn't have a clear view that as Parliament, therefore, we were asking our colleagues from the European Parliament or the European Commission to get that candidate status. We were promised that in '20, '21, '19. When we filed a request, so we answered all those questions, so on and so forth, not to repeat it now, maybe you've already heard me talk about what I've been saying. I thought it was unnecessary waiting to wait. Let's say that, and I'm saying now, here in the parliamentary, parliamentary benches, it was unnecessary, therefore, that almost a year and more would be lost to answering those questions that we answered to the European Commission, and they knew all about us. They have the Office of the European Commission here, has the OHR, have various international associations, formal and informal, and government and non-governmental, therefore. Was it necessary to lose a year to answer questions and additional questions in order to obtain candidate status? So we wait to wait again. The other thing that has offered me, and what I used to say in the media, little at times and at our formal and informal meetings, either in the commission, or with some groups from the European Parliament, colleagues from various European countries, their parliaments, so that we in Bosnia and Herzegovina almost have a declarative position that we want to be members of the European Union. So, I'm not a single party, especially a parliamentary party, heard him say something the other way around, so I thought this Declaration was the first way and the possibility to check that attitude. And you see that when we first voted it, it wasn't like that. Why was I saying... If we get candidate status, here's an example. in the Law on Public Procurement, so we have brought amendments and additions to the Law on Public Procurement in this House, here is when the House of the Peoples will pass I do not know, but if we were candidates we would have to bring it to the open chapter. And then it should get the opinion of the European Commission and say, yes, it is the law that suits your desire to be a member of the European Union. And then we would see in parliamentary benches who is for such a law that is in line with the directives of the European Union. Then we would see, not a declarative statement for Europe, but indeed. Perhaps then, if we had had the candidate status, we would have even avoided these stories of when any law was passed and who raised his hand and whether he was lying and messing with it, but here it would have been about the adoption of laws of European standards. And then I guess no one would ever say I didn't vote for him if he supported such a law, and we voted him in that opening chapter. The second is the methodology, therefore, of accessing now and negotiating with the European Commission. Being a candidate for the European Union doesn't mean getting it right away, it can take 10 years. So we in the waiting room, here, since 2015 when we submitted, not to say there in 2008 to get the candidate status, so we waited again, and now we haven't got the date again, the one that was once circulating in the air in 2030. I thought this document was good, to express one position, and one and the other parliament, and of course I would suggest that, if we adopt it, we should also be directed to the House of Peoples to accept this, with the fact that it is now the tenth month, which we have received the new Opinion of the European Commission which is also not good again. So it's all supposed to be before. However, so it is in us, no matter how it works... In order to make it even clearer, I think that we of those 14 priorities in these last maybe a month, perhaps even the most difficult ones or conditions for obtaining candidate status have been met. Namely, there, remember, they are the most fluid and most demanding priorities of the rule of law and judicial reform. I think we've completed judicial reform these days, replaced the chief prosecutor and resigned the president of the VSTV. So we reformed the judiciary. It also took the stage of the rule of law in this country, as the Parliamentary Assembly appoints the Central Election Commission against the law, against the law of the judicial panel. Nowhere in the world will Parliamentarians question the presidents of courts and prosecutors. It's not anywhere, it's 60 follow-up. And it's even bigger this one, as I would say, the mirror of it is that the committee has a man who has a confirmed indictment and travels, imagine who, the chief prosecutor. I even agree that maybe... to ask the Minister of Justice, the President of the Council of Ministers, they are political persons, but to question them directly, but I guess we'll get that commission sometime, and I don't think she needs to work anymore, because she's finished and reforming the judiciary, it's started to work, to operate the rule of law with it. So we have met these priorities, that no colleagues from the European Union have anything to worry about, we need to be given candidate status so that we can move on. I hope that happens by the end of '21. years, now a little less, because we're not the three laws and what we were planning to do we didn't do, unfortunately. Are we gonna get there? I'm not sure about a situation like this, so now there's been some other circumstances. But here, so I think the European Commission has no reason to say that we haven't met 14 priorities, especially these most difficult ones, because as I said, so justice reform and all, and now that's going to be all right. I hope it calms down now and that it will work properly, since we've paved the way for it to go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10833	Thank you. Alma Čolo, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10834	Thank you, Chairman. I think that we do not need to declare that we support our path to the European Union because it is not our task. Our job here is to meet 14 key priorities and to pass laws that are set in these 14 key priorities. I would just point out that the justice minister coming from HDZ did not propose the Law on VSTV, did not propose the Law on Conflict of Interest, did not propose a Law on Courts that would position the Supreme Court Office at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, although the European Commission's opinion, which specified 14 priorities, gave two and a half years ago, without saying many years earlier that the job had not been done. That's why I don't think that this declaration is supposed to... our responsibility for the job that's ahead of us means we're getting rid of responsibility for legislative activity. We need to make laws. It is also not proposed laws concerning the implementation of the OSCE and ODIHR recommendations in the electoral legislation. The Electoral Commission has made a proposal to amend and supplement the Election Law in which it has implemented all the recommendations of ODIHR. The Venice Commission, just to remind you, and the OSCE have given a positive opinion on this amendment and addition of the Election Law. HDZ and SNSD did not allow these amendments to the Electoral Law to be considered as a proposal from the CEC, but rather, Mr. Mahmutović, had to take over those amendments to the law to let them go to the Interresor Working Group. So all this Mr. Lovrinović as a prominent member of the HDZ suggests that I think it's hypocritical, we should do. I will not support this declaration of yours. And let me just say, we didn't replace the D.A.'s office. We have nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10835	Thank you. Representative Lovrinović, correction of the wrong allegations. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10836	When I say - we, I meant, not Parliament, of us who change that, so everyone participates in this reform process. Here's the zoning indicator of how the parliamentary majority works. That's right. So for fellow MPs who know something, they don't know something, so we're like the parliamentary majority of these three laws, the first Law on the VSTV, was on the Council of Ministers, in the procedure, now it's all stopped, is that right, the Law on conflict of interest is agreed with the Venice Commission, salt is two, three times, waiting for their opinion. I think it was and that it was, certain changes were requested, too, and that you other colleagues knew it was so-called. The parliamentary majority tried to agree these three laws and here's how we deal with it. We were on the verge of letting go, as we released the Public Procurement Act, and I was a participant in those conversations, and now we have the story that we have. Now I am hypocritical, and the lady is not hypocritical. So, if she were lucky, they wouldn't be both hypocritical, but they'd be passing those laws. And so my minister is, and so is hers, right, so we have proposed these laws, so these laws would be brought into line with the Council of Ministers, so they would be released here, and not that, therefore, my colleagues who are not hypocritical are every other session with another parliamentary majority, and each one of these sessions accuses us of blocking, of something we don't, for something we disabling, as if we can't defend our views and not have them, and we have them. When they joined us in the parliamentary majority, when you joined your colleagues, you knew what we were like, and you knew what ours were... like we knew what yours were. I called today, the chairman disobeyed me, to create a new parliamentary majority. As far as I'm concerned, you're looking for whoever you want a parliamentary majority with, and don't accuse us again. Let us be the opposition, if you can do it, please do it. If you can't, and then what can you do, just accuse someone else of being guilty? Mrs. Krišto said nicely, we have our political views, we have our demands, we have our wishes. We are politically almost destroyed as a people after the 2000 and 2001 changes. We were destroyed by the High Representative and by you who supported such changes, the constitution, the county, the Federation, that I do not now count. We're politically speaking, we're not saying that you've destroyed us socio-economically, we're together in the same impasse socio-economic as you are, but there's no point, so this is more of a transfer of responsibility and we're saying to someone that he's hypocritical, and you're not hypocritical. I submitted the Declaration just to see that it wasn't snowing to cover the hill, but to show the beast a clue. What if the BiH Parliament is not asking colleagues from the European Parliament to grant us candidate status, you know that it means 10 years? Turkey for 50 years is a candidate, here, what is Serbia? Why wouldn't that be our attitude? Is it our attitude to be a member? Yes, it is. So when the laws come to us we'll... I personally think we deserve to get candidate status. I'm sure a lot of things would be different if we got it two years ago, the candidate status, what I was saying, the laws would have been passed. were by European standards, not like this. [[the speaker is warned on time]] But here, that's how it works for you, here you go, work.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10837	Thank you. Agent Helez, non-compliance with the established agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10838	The Honorable Chairman. You were so good at running this session and you warned when someone left the agenda. Why don't you warn these people? Whoever cheated on him, how the parliamentary majority works, has exactly what's-his-name. And in the end, don't harass 62 of us from that ruling majority here. Half the discussion of your Mr. Lovrinović today was how difficult it was for you in that majority, as these have deceived you, it seems to me, from the SDA, that, as a people, you are almost destroyed, 30 years with them. So don't, then don't talk about it here, or schedule a thematic session, and argue. So you'd best have a cup of coffee, brother delegations, as is popular with you, leading this Bošnjak, this Hrvat, sit down, settle. No, we lost half of this time today on your discussion of who cheated on whom. What if your ministers can't fuck up without resigning, we can't, we're not asked, etc.? Anyway, you'd like to be in power, and it's not exactly what you think is best. Sit down, have a cup of coffee, don't harass us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10839	Thank you. Representative Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10840	Thank you, Chairman. Well, you see, I mean, I just can't let these fake allegations come out here. According to Mr Lovrinović -- there is nowhere in the world that the parliamentary committee is hearing someone from the judiciary. Here, twenty days ago, on September 21st, the chairman of the Anti-Corruption Council of the Republic of Croatia says - we agreed to call the head of state lawyer Šipek Zlat Hrvoj and comment... _______________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Chairman of the Commission of Parliament, Commission of Parliament, Assembly.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10842	All right, all right. Don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10843	We agreed to call on Chief State Attorney Zlat Hrvoj Šipek and comment on the current investigations, which our Commission has never done, and to comment on the current investigations and Kutina and what was happening in Medjugorje, but also on the cases for which we receive the presentations of citizens complaining about the work of the ORH, he presented the Grmoja conclusion of yesterday's session of the Committee. I'm exasperating the review, but I'm also pleased that the Anti-Corruption Council has finally taken a position that we're not going to let the government, the state's attorney's office and the other institutions break our teeth, but that we're going to stand up against it and soon we're going to publish conclusions that we've expressed dissatisfaction because from month to month, year after year, the state authorities are not delivering the documentation. I also think of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, the Government and the State's Attorney's Office, Grmoja told reporters in the Croatian Parliament. And then you come and say, "There is nowhere in the world. Well, man, don't go any further than Croatia, not that I'm telling you now my colleagues who are members of this Commission about the numerous video meetings we've had with the SDA, OSCE, ambassadors of all the countries of 63 Quinta, the European Union, etc. And then you just stand up and flutter—there is nowhere in the world. This is what the President of the Croatian Parliament's Committee tells you – they are questioning the chief prosecutor about the current investigations. Well, what you're talking about, man, so you can't, I mean, there's some responsibility when you get up, at least get to know what you're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10844	Thank you. Zlatan Begić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10845	Well, here, I don't know if there are any needs, and I wanted to respond to that, so it's a normal parliamentary practice, but here, we have, therefore, found that here, we are easy to present qualifications on the illegal selection of CEC members, on illegal ensuing on the parliamentary commission, and I really call on us all to refrain from it. When it comes to the Declaration which is now the agenda point, of course, I support the position, but, behold, it should be known however that the declarations are not legally binding acts, the declarations are used to express views. I think that through the institutions, given our participation, we could speak as political entities, that through these institutions we could go through the adoption of legally binding acts, i.e. the amendment, in the first place of the Constitution, by law, and with regard to all the priorities that have been put before us. So, I absolutely support attitude and intent, but intent is not enough, we really need to do something in that direction to implement these good intentions here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10846	Thank you. Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10847	My colleague Arnaut, therefore, we have every year, although that is not the subject, but this is, therefore, the answer to the incorrect assumption that every year we have a report from the VSTV, the Court and the Prosecutor's Office. Every time we are in favour or against, or we receive knowledge, but from this report and our debates can come to the conclusion of a variety of types, to pass a new law, to amend and supplement laws, on courts, on prosecutors, on anything, so there was no need to form a special commission. That committee is monitoring the processes that are happening, maybe even you could have done it, but you've entered the D.A.'s and Court's technology, what you asked them there, and plus not to say the composition, I've been saying who was all in the membership of that committee. So, you were going in there, the D.A.'s doing it, so what VSTV's going to do, then we can go to Parliament here, I don't mind. Let the law bring it back so that we can see here how they do it, what they do, what the attorney general does, to whom it suits, what happens if he doesn't pass the report, so every year they do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10848	We left the agenda, let's slowly get back to the point. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10849	Well, so, all of a sudden, we need a commission to investigate, and we have reports of these bodies every year...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10850	Let's get back to the agenda and get it over with. Predrag Kožul, correction of the wrong assumption. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10851	Since it is a trend to correct the wrong allegations of fellow Lovrinović, I will do the same. Coli Lovrinović has otherwise stated one false allegation that the replacement of the chief prosecutor and the VSTV chairman has carried out a reform of the judiciary. On the contrary, the chief prosecutor's shift was carried out under strong political pressure with the express request of the president of the parliamentary political party for very pragmatic, I would say, and personal reasons. At this point, we have a strong and lasting political pressure on the judiciary and it is indeed an actual state of affairs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10852	Thank you. Representative Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10853	Well, I would like to believe that Mr Lovrinović was either sarcastic, or ironic, or even wanted to be funny when he said that we had met certain conditions for joining the European Union and then listed several of these priorities. I mean, judicial reform, he, I think, said that even the shift of former VSTV president, as I recall, that reform of the judiciary, so that's just the beginning. The shift and bringing in people who will be headed by such an institution or in the form of such a significant body is just the beginning to scratch and start reforming the judiciary at all. That's exactly what the commission's work was, the Justice Investigation Commission, whose member I am, and what I'm very proud of. And, here, I would not further discuss, obviously the examples here are shown that this was quite done in accordance with the law and with positive European and world practices. But, look, he himself states that we have not passed the Law on VSTV, nor the Law on conflict of interest, nor on public procurement. I mean, I don't see what we did then to have a basis to ask someone to take us into the European Union. How about someone take us into the European Union, how, what, charity does? We have clearly received the tasks we need to fulfill, and none of these goals have been fulfilled, and we have not fulfilled these tasks. Therefore, if we bring a declaration that the European Union accepts us, excuse me, it is completely unnecessary for me, I do not see any significance to it at all. The European Union will receive us once we have fulfilled what it has ordered us to do, and now we are on a scale of all possible European statistics by corruption, by the exact efficiency of the judiciary, etc., and we are bringing a declaration that the European Union accepts us, that is, to obtain candidate status. So based on what? Well, I don't want anybody's charity, I actually want to work on earning our candidate status, and I don't think we've earned anything yet. So, I don't see why there's always talk of a parliamentary majority here, does that mean that if a member of the parliamentary majority has to blindly follow someone's views? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Therefore, and in particular 65 views based on the law, because here we listen to Mr. Lovrinović – do you trust me or your eyes, so do you believe what the law says or what I say. I agree that we do not have to agree in our views, but that a persistent body is characterized by illegal or disputing work, that HDZ did not want to propose to the members of the Commission's Investigation Commission that is your position and your right and please do not say that we are illegal, that we have followed someone, etc. Unfortunately, because of this blockade, we are now in no position to present our report which would also contribute to judicial reform as one of the very, very important issues in this country and to the cancer of this society's wounds, apart from corruption, I think it's another cancer of this society's wounds. Therefore, and this work of ours is aimed at reforming the judiciary, and that we are here to discuss the adoption of a declaration, what, here, we are committed to the European Union, yes, we are all committed and? If we're determined then we should work, fulfill our tasks, and we'll get candidate status.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10854	Thank you. Nermin Nikšić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10855	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, it's no secret that Mr. Lovrinović and I have very often different views, but this initiative of his today can even be considered likable and I will support it. Why? Well, if we're not lying, we're the only candidate we can get to give it to us, we're not gonna get to it ourselves. And, here, I commit myself, and if this doesn't pass today, Mr. Lovrinović, that in the next few days I will offer a programme of implementation of those 14 measures, so let's see if we're ready to work on it, and you as a parliamentary majority, and we as an opposition. It would simply be much better if we were given that candidate status because then we would probably turn around to fulfil those obligations, even though it certainly doesn't mean that we would be working on fulfilling those obligations, and that someone would take us into NATO and say that we have a successful mandate. But, if I'm not kidding, I really consider this a well-intentioned initiative, and so I'm going to be aware that we can have an initiative, it's a matter of the European Union, of the European Parliament, how it will apply, but it's certainly good for us to start talking here about fulfilling these obligations. And I say, if this doesn't go through today, and if it does, I'll deliver the chairman in the next few days, I'll make sure I deliver the program, the commitment plan for those 14 priorities we've been given as a task to carry out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10856	Thank you, Agent Nikšić. An esteemed fellow chairman, Mr. Zvizdić, appeared for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10857	Thank you very much. I welcome you all very much. 66 Only a couple, perhaps, findings or clarifications. The full implementation of 14 priorities from the European Commission's opinion on Bosnia and Herzegovina would allow Bosnia and Herzegovina to open a minimum of one of the existing six or seven clusters to start negotiations with the European Union. Therefore, at this point, no list or agenda should be made, or a programme to implement these priorities, because in the opinion itself, we have received 115 subpriorities that are very clearly indicated, and the Council of Ministers of BiH has adopted, during or at the end of my term, the Action Plan for the Implementation of the Priorities that it has, I think, if I recall correctly, 756 activities and measures. Therefore, the realization of these 756 activities, measures, obligations, tasks, laws, strategies, etc. will realise 115 subpriorities, and cumulatively this means the realization of all 14 priorities from the European Commission's opinion on Bosnia and Herzegovina. This, therefore, will allow us to open negotiations, and obtaining candidate status is something else, which requires much less priority. Under some last or original agreements before this blockade of the work of Bosnia and Herzegovina's legislative and executive authorities, we have defined in a series of talks with the European Commission in a way a dozen priorities that could allow us to obtain candidate status. Six priorities have been addressed, such as the functioning of the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association, such as the adoption of a Public Administration Reform Strategy with action plans at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and entities, such as the War Crimes Strategy, such as the abolition of the death penalty in Republika Srpska, such as the elections, the appointment of the executive and legislative authority in Mostar, etc. We have these three laws, the Law on Public Procurement, the Law on Conflict of Interest and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council where a rule on the integrity of judges and prosecutors would be adopted. If we adopt that, of course, we can be in a position to present credible progress in this regard and to think about candidate status. Of course, in the position that we are now in, in the political position in which we are, because of the absolute blockade of work and of Parliament and the executive authorities, we cannot discuss it, but we expect that when that blockade is over, when our colleagues return to the institutions, that we can very quickly adopt these laws and perhaps in the coming year get candidate status. That's why I think this declaration is actually, let me say, one, one statement of a good political will, one good message to our friends in the European Commission and the European Parliament. There is no reason not to support this declaration and send such a signal that European integration remains one of the two key foreign policy priorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that BiH's European integration cannot and has no alternative.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10858	Thank you, Comrade Zvizdić. No more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda point and we're moving on to the next one.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-26-0.u10859	Thank you. The next item of the agenda is number 13, Ad. 13. Giving consent to the ratification of Annex I of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Montenegro on the implementation of border checks at the common border crossing points for the common location at the border crossing point of Delusa – Vratenovici; Annex II. Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Montenegro on the implementation of border checks at a common 67 border crossing point for a common location at the border crossing of Hum-Scepan Polje; Annex III. Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Montenegro on the implementation of border checks at common border crossing points for a common location at the border crossing of Sitnica – Zupca and Aneks iv.e. Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Montenegro on the implementation of border checks at common border crossing points for a common location at the Klobuk border crossing – Ilino Brdo, number: 01,02-21-1-1780/21 of 23/09/21. The Foreign Affairs Commission delivered its opinion. The Commission has given the opinion that previous conditions have been met for the House of Representatives to give consent to ratification. I'm opening a debate. No Niko's answering. I'm closing the debate. I understand we've exhausted the agenda of today's session here. It's 20 hours now, 20 minutes to 18 hours, 20 to 6. How many club presidents do you need to get along? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
