ParlaMint-BA_2021-09-20-0.u10567	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored guests, representatives of the Council of Ministers of BiH, I am opening the 23rd session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. We will hear the anthem of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Once again, I warmly welcome all present creditors, members of the BiH Council of Ministers and distinguished guests. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] From the Office of the Chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr Zoran Tegeltija, it has been notified that the chairman is unable to attend today's session. Also, Civil Affairs Minister Ankica Gudeljević delivered a notice that for justified reasons he is unable to attend today's session. The session is currently attended by 29 MPs and I agree that the session has a quorum for full work and decision-making. As indicated in your call for a session and in accordance with Article 167. The Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session, and before the debate on the agenda, MPs will be allowed to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. In accordance with Article 168. The rules of procedure for asking parliamentary questions in oral form were submitted by distinguished representatives of Damir Arnaut, chaired by the BiH Council of Ministers and Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, BiH Civil Affairs Minister. These announcements were submitted in accordance with Article 168(2) to the Chair of the Council of Ministers and to the member of the Council of Ministers to whom the issue relates. I would also like to remind you that a direct TV transmission of this part of the session has been provided, and in accordance with Rule 167(1) of the Rules of Procedure. We can now start by asking oral parliamentary questions, but unfortunately without giving an answer, because the chairman, who is asked the question, and the minister of civil affairs, informed us that for justifiable reasons, they cannot attend today's session. Still, I'm giving my word to the esteemed representative, Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-09-20-0.u10568	Thank you, Chairman. The issue is for the chairman of the Council of Ministers, but given the type of questions it could be answered by the vice-president, Mr Bevanda and Mrs Turković, who I also see are not here today. I will ask the question anyway and ask the services to deliver the chairman of the Council of Ministers to it in writing and to have him answer me in the same way, specifically regarding the absence of an answer to my many parliamentary questions. During a similar question I asked Mr. Tegeltija, he said that more than 90% of the questions were answered, but what I learned on the Commission's investigation and when it comes to the CMS, the problem is always in those 5 to 10%. I'm left with answers to, as some might say, wrinkling questions. So, the chairman of the Council of Ministers promised me at one of the previous sessions that he would deliver a 2 response from the Monitoring Directorate, but it has been several months, I still don't get it. Also from the foreign ministry regarding certain costs of Mr Kozarić's team, also from the Central Bank's media costs, from the Border Police to the identity of senior BiH officials who use passports from other countries and the like. Please, once again, Mr. Tegelti, that this, these answers be delivered in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-09-20-0.u10569	Thank you. I give my word to the honourable representative Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-09-20-0.u10570	Well, I don't know if it's random or intentional, but we don't have a civilian minister. I was just about to ask whether the follow-up of the procedure and what was done to make a decision on the review of the BiH institution's diplomats, since the latest information we have, that on 25 May 2021 this issue was on the Council of Ministers' Internal Policy Committee and that the chairman of the Justice Committee, Josip Grubeša, asked the minister of civil affairs for clarifications. So again this issue has not been decided and this issue has not been considered and I am already really responsible for saying that this is an obstruction and that this issue does not want to be put on the agenda of the Council of Ministers again, i.e. it does not want to make an appropriate decision. We see the results of a similar decision both at the federal level and in Canton of Sarajevo, and I suppose someone might be afraid of what they'll find at the state level. Since further clarifications are constantly required and no decisions are made, here I have taken the right to make a decision, i.e. a proposal for a Council of Ministers decision and a simple letter requiring the educational institutions to deliver diplomas for employees in the BiH state institutions, and here I will forward this to the Secretary Dom, so he can deliver to the minister and I pray that he will also answer this question in writing. [[Advocacy is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-09-20-0.u10571	Thank you. We don't have any more applications to ask oral questions. We're moving on to the agenda. As regards changes to the agenda of today's session, I would like to point out the following, points have been removed from the agenda: Point 6. Proposal for a Law amending Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law, whose legislators were MPs Nermin Nikšić, Saša Magazinović, Nada Mladina and Zukan Helez, a shortened procedure, because constitutional chaos did not deliver opinions and Point 11. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on a proposal for a law amending Bosnia and Herzegovina's Criminal Law, proposed by legislator Denis Zvizdić, was in the second reading, as the applicant submitted an act withdrawing the bill from the legislative procedure because the law with similar themes was imposed by the Office of the High Representative. 3 On the agenda are added two points: point 20. Giving consent to ratification Supplement No 1 of the Agreement on the financing of the Annual Action Programme for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2019, between the European Commission, acting on behalf of the European Union, and Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Directorate for European Integration of the Council of Ministers of BiH and Point 21. Giving consent to the ratification and amendment of the Agreement on the Investment Grant between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank, the Mediterranean Corridor (R2a): Bosnia and Herzegovina – Travel Interconnection with Croatia "Building the Cross-border Bridge in Gradišc", signed in Luxembourg on 11 December 2020 and 5 March 2021 in Sarajevo. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. As a matter of fact, Nikola Lovrinović, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-09-20-0.u10572	Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Krišto, I welcome you all to the hall. We have today a session that we once cancelled, so to speak, about a month ago, hoping that something will be resolved in the meantime when I talk about a political situation that we have found ourselves in. Namely, as president of the club then on, on, about a month ago at the College, we are all together, those of us who were at the College agreeing to, behold, after a month or something perhaps more hold this session in order to determine some practical state that we have today, because we really couldn't say, neither I as a member of the College in an extended composition, nor any of our colleagues, that this someone would be, someone would be, or how they would be, going to act towards the session until it happened. It is agreed and let it happen, however, often what I say on behalf of the club and in person, so most often it does not take at all seriously and much of what is taken seriously in this House, in this House of Representatives. So, basically, we don't have colleagues Osmanović now, we have another federal parliament here and I don't know how good it is, so we do this and we all know it well, so the story can't even end in this House, we can start something, we can try to do something, we can even open up the space that we've opened up to colleagues who haven't come today, to Srbin, so, to colleagues in the order of the Serbian people, we can, therefore, do everything. Here, I'm not sure that it's the College or we in Parliament that we're to blame for the situation we found ourselves in, but we can't say we're not responsible and we're not looking for a solution all together, so. This isn't gonna work. I don't know how this session's gonna work. At the College we couldn't, one of my proposals was to postpone the session today, but here it didn't pass. I don't know how this will all look by the end of the day, but surely as a club, if this continues in this way, so we have to show in the next time, because this isn't good, this isn't good, so this can't end here either, we need to find a solution, we need to find an answer to this, we must, therefore, work as the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. It is unacceptable, therefore, that only some things happen here with a clear message and a clear knowledge that it can't actually end, there can be no end to anything that we start here, there can be no end to anything that's serious. We can discuss here today, talk to each other about this or what, so, what's wrong or what's wrong, but this kind of session and this kind of work that I'm saying again, maybe we're not at the top of what we're guilty of, but it's a lot of dear friends, colleagues and colleagues of what we're different from last term, and this is what I'm talking about on a few four occasions, so we're in the situation that we're in. A lot has accumulated, this high representative's decision may have just been the tip of the iceberg, but there's a lot of things we've been doing here and doing today and we'd be doing maybe even now that it's not like this, but once we have to stop and tell you where we are and what we are. If colleagues want, part of a colleague to have a different state, if he wants to have a different constitution, I don't mind, this may not fit the agenda, but I don't think the situation is normal, so I have some things to say today. If a different state, if you want a different constitution, go ahead and have a procedure, let's change them, until then, so we have to respect that this is a state of constituent people, two homes, that we have a way of voting, the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution are as clear as the day, the one who wants different is legitimately wanted, it's legitimate that I will, I don't mind too, but give it while we have this to respect, so we can't vote, and especially the parties that make up call the parliamentary majority, which I'm already saying I'm not saying again, I'd like to get serious once, to realize that this may be, there may be even worse, but this is probably the biggest peak of the political crisis in BiH. I'd like to, therefore, and today to interrupt the session, although it may not be possible to propose a conclusion in this way, I don't know what, but I'm not sure how we're going to do it today, and here's the third point where the emergency procedure is. [[representative is warned on time]] So, I'm not sure what we're going to do here, so maybe we can consider this session and agree that another attempt is to give our colleagues space to do something, I agree, but this doesn't lead to anything, or we sit down and talk or we sit down to solve some problems or I really don't know what they're going to... So, we're going to be like a club and about this session today, and especially in the future, we're going to show what we're going to do and how we're going to behave. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-09-20-0.u10573	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Saša Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-09-20-0.u10574	Dear Chairman, Deputy Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all. He's right, colleague Lovrinović, when he says this may not be a topic, but I think we should talk about this. We did not create a problem and we are not obliged, nor do we have the tools to solve it, therefore, the problem did not arise in the Parliamentary Assembly and what we as MPs, as people who receive a salary for this job, we can do is to carry out our work obligations, and this approach to make someone a problem, and then whoever did not do it should solve it I think is wrong. I don't mind if we talk about everything with our colleagues who aren't at work today, but let them go back to the O.R. and we'll talk here, if it takes two days to stay, and I'll be chasing someone around the pubs and offices to talk to him about it, and I don't think we're going to have a little bit of a turn here, and now it's our fault that we're coming to work, and we need to look for a solution, and those who pass any procedures, laws, anything boycott their work obligations, they're victims, and now we need to jump around them. You know what this looks like, the driver goes through the red light all the time, but we're not gonna teach the driver the rules, but we're gonna climb up and throw a bag over the traffic lights to make it look a little more polite when he goes by so he doesn't see it red. Don't turn it around. 5 In the end, we showed good will, what my colleague Lovrinović is saying, so even in the fact that we could put any material in the emergency session today with any content, even what would be in public, and even among colleagues who are not there, we could mark it as pointing fingers in the eye, we did not do it. Does anyone appreciate it, does anyone recognize it? We left the agenda as it is, we didn't propose new points, there's a business opportunity to do it, so let's discuss it, so we can send messages. So there is good will, but there is no service to anyone who violates all possible procedures and laws to be an accomplice to it and to chase him around the pubs let's talk. Don't make it harder to turn around, I'll come to work whenever the session is scheduled, and once again, the problem isn't made in the Parliamentary Assembly, it's not here in the O.R. that we feel To get rid of him, nor did we make him who we are here in the O.R. [[representative is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-09-20-0.u10575	Thank you. Dear Representative Adil Osmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-09-20-0.u10576	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Co-chair, colleagues and fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers. Of course, we can't look back on this current situation that we are in, although, as my colleagues have said, the debate on the agenda and I would like to make our point on behalf of the MPs' club on behalf of today's session 23rd in a row. In July, we accepted that the 23rd session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives has been postponed, we have left enough time and space, more than a month, to see if there will be some alignment of political views for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to work at full capacity. There were no moves, and I would like to give recognition to all MPs who have responded today to this call to attend the regular 23rd session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives and to discuss the agenda that he has proposed and which the College has adopted in the extended composition. Where, as counterpart Magazinović said, where this, where we will conduct the debate if not in BiH institutions, we are here today and how we should open a debate on this apparent political crisis and determine ourselves accordingly. The Parliamentary Assembly has by no means contributed to this, we have not said, none of the MPs here, none of the political parties, who are partying here, have heard that they are not ready to talk, but for the discussion you must have the other side that offers certain proposals, certain topics, and that is all here in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, in the Presidency, etc. It is therefore up to us to show both the domestic and international public that we are doing everything we can as the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives in accordance with the law and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to step down and there is no blockade of this institution. Where we don't have that capacity, why don't we say, we expect the OHR to react, the OHR decision is on the OHR, they've made a decision to amend and supplement the Criminal Code, and they should continue to take certain moves, but we can't reach for this House to be completely blocked. I agree with my colleague Lovrinović, this is in a certain way, we see all MPs coming mainly from the Federation of BiH, but such is the Rules of Procedure, such is the law, I think we should do everything to make this House work and, of course, find solutions to get out of this crisis. [[representative is warned on time]] Thank you. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2021-09-20-0.u10577	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Mr. Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-09-20-0.u10578	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm sure you didn't think so, that you meant figuratively, Mr. Magazinović, to tell anyone that you're not going to run after anyone, it's like that, but banalizing the thing that people are sitting in the cafes and now we're going to have to chase them around our colleaguesOsmanović cafes so that they can figure out who they are, what they are and what they're doing, I don't think it's okay, because expressing the political attitude is political and voting for, and against, and be, and not be, so it's all part of parliamentary, parliamentary work and what the job of the MPs is, of course, that presence at the sessions... or at home where the member, all of which I agree. However, one condition, my colleague Osmanović, I am not sure, therefore, that in this situation has been produced by someone else, therefore, which we have become hostages, but among us, especially the parliamentary majority, something has not been right since the last term, and I have had the good fortune to be both then and now both in the parliamentary majority and in the House of Representatives, something is not going on, so we have no respect for ourselves, you are right You are all listening to something and no one is hearing anyone. So everyone would solve a question in their own way, and as he sees it, often, I repeat it again, I say it's not a topic, and now I'm embarrassed to open all that story here, so any legal solution imposed by anyone, has the right to this House, but through this legal solution often wants to change the Constitution. So it's constantly being done, let's say, to HDZ that it's for some division, it's just because it respects the Constitution, just because it's asking for an amendment to the Election Law and that someone legitimately represents it, so we're dividing the state. We respect the Dayton Constitution, so he said, so he said that we must be in the House of Peoples and that we need no one else to change that, choose our representatives. So, we don't listen here, and then we choose the Central Election Commission, so we choose the Justice Commission in one home, so it is represented as a committee of the Parliamentary Assembly, which is not true. And so a series of problems, and when it all comes together, there comes another one like this, which is happiness, a decision, is whether, which should have been sooner or later, I don't know how, and then we have what we have, and then it's the most we'd like to do again today, and I'm afraid that's how it's going to be, that's how it's going to be, that we transfer responsibility here. [[representative is warned on time]] to you, you to me and to someone else. [[representative is warned on time]] It's not right, so we have to sit down once and realize that this country is all of us, all of us, and even those who represent the constituent people, that's what the Constitution said. Whoever doesn't agree with it can change the Constitution if he can, if he can't do what I'm gonna do, he can't rape me here.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-09-20-0.u10579	Thank you. We're moving away from the agenda debate. Please stick to the debate on the agenda. No more reports. 7 I conclude that the 23rd session of the House of Representatives has the agenda that you received with the invitation, with the changes and additions read at the beginning of this session, and it reads: Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 22nd session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives; 2. Comments on questions received; 3. Representatives Jasmin Emrić, Saša Magazinović and Damir Arnaut's request to discuss the bill on preventing conflicts of interest in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, number: 01-02- 1-1393/21, of 07/07.2021.; 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-153/21, of 04.06.2021. (second reading); 5. Proposal for a Bill on the Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2021, Proposer: BiH Presidency, issue: 01,02-02-1-306/21, of 24.06.2021. (second reading); 6. Commission report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal of MP Nikola Lovrinović for inclusion in the 22nd session of the House of Representatives' House of Representatives for the European Union: Proposal for a declaration of candidate status for Bosnia and Herzegovina's membership, issue: 01-50-1-15-22/21, dated 08.07.20121; 7. Commission report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal of representative Sanja Vulić for the entry into the agenda of 22nd session of the House of Representatives of the New Points: Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Research Commission for the determination of the situation in BHRT, issue: 01-50-1392/21, link: 01-50-1-15-22/21, of 08.07.20121; 8. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the BiH Council of Ministers' request to discuss the proposal for a law on customs infringements of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, number: 01,02- 02-1-1223/21, of 08.07.2012; 9. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on a proposal for a law on the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, suggests: the BiH Council of Ministers, issue: 01,02-02-1-764/21, since 08.07.20121. (law in second reading); 10. Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the conclusions contained in the Information on the state of play at the Export-Credit Agency of BiH (IGA) caused by the blockade of the main transaction account, No: 01,02-50-18-1232/21, of 08.07.2012; 11. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the Information on the State of Suspension at the BiH Export Credit Agency (IGA) caused by the blockade of the main transaction account, number: 01,02-50-18-1232/21, dated 08.07.2012; 12. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the Šemsudin Dedić's parliamentary initiative, which obliges the Council of Ministers of BiH to, in accordance with its competences, take urgent action towards the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure of the Republic of Croatia with the aim of amending and supplementing the Public Roads Regulations on which the transit of freight vehicles must take place through the Republic of Croatia (NN 51/2021, of 12.05.2021)., 01-50-1-1062/21, of 08.07.2012; 8 13. Commission report on the effort to reach agreement on Predrag Kojović's parliamentary initiative, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepić, Aida Baručija and Damir Arnaut, which is ordered by the BiH Council of Ministers, to deliver to the legislative procedure the amendment and addition of the Law on Foreigners of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which will enable and regulate the stay of digital nomads in Bosnia and Herzegovina, No: 01-50-1364/21, of 08.07.2012; 14. Report – Monitoring the implementation of the impact review recommendations "Grant Management in Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions", applicant: BiH Institutions Audit Office, issue: 01-01/4-16-10c1224/21, since 1606.2021; 15. Report – Monitoring the implementation of the impact review recommendations "Activities of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the implementation of protection and rescue in a natural or other accident", applicant: Office for the Review of BiH institutions, issue: 01,01/4-16-10-1225/21, since 16.06.2021; 16. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement by exchanging notes between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Japan on Japanese grants of five hundred million Japanese yen, issue: 01,02-21-1-1640/21, dated 18.08.2021; 17. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement by exchanging notes between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Japan on Japanese grant aid of 100,000 000 Japanese yen for the equipment of medical institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01.02-21-1-1647/21, dated 19.08.2021; 18. Giving consent to the ratification of the Grant Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Serbia, the City of Zvornik and the European Investment Bank, the Joint European Fund for the Western Balkans/WB-IG04-BiH-ENV-02, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the WATSAN programme (The Water Supply and Sanitary Services Programme) in Republika Srpska: Lokanj – Chicken: Water supply phase I and wastewater treatment plant for Tabanci in the town of Zvornik, issue: 01.02-21-1-1669/21, since 25.08.2021; 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Grant between Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Municipality of Jajca and the European Investment Bank Grant of the Joint European Fund for the Western Balkans/WB-IG04-BiH- ENV-04, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the WATSAN project in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina: Investments in water supply on the right bank of the Vrbas River and the reduction of water loss in the municipality of Jajca, issue: 01,02-21-1-1685/21, from 31.08.2021; 20. Giving consent to ratification Supplement number I of the Agreement on the financing of the Annual Action Programme for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2019, between the European Commission, acting on behalf of the European Union and Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Council of Ministers' Directorate for European Integration, No 01,02-21-1725/21, of 13.09.20121; 21. Giving consent to the ratification and amendment of the Agreement on the Investment Grant between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank, the Mediterranean Corridor (R2a): Bosnia and Herzegovina – Travel Interconnection with the Croatian "Build construction of the cross-border bridge in Gradišca" (WB-IGOO-BiH-TRA-02), signed on 11 December 2020 in Luxembourg and 5 March 2021 in Sarajevo, issue: 01-02-21-1733/21, since 15/09/2021. 9 We move to agenda number one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the 22nd session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives You've got the record. Do you have any objections? No one's reported. Moving to agenda number two, Ad. 2. Comments on answers received to parliamentary questions
ParlaMint-BA_2021-09-20-0.u10582	Thank you. My one question I want to talk about now was to the VSTV, and it concerns the Supreme Court's verdict in the case of the murder of Dženan Memić, who is the ultimate confirmation that the whole process is conducted by the judiciary, and in the prosecutor's office, and then later, the trial, led in the wrong direction. My question was, first of all, how much it cost five years of a judicial process led in the wrong direction and whether the responsibility would be sanctioned and in what way and whether 10 VSTVs deal with possible abuses of the official position of legal holders in this case and in other cases. I also want to say here that I am shocked by the answer, and the answer is about to say – nothing will happen to anyone. And again, with this answer, we return to that story about what is the biggest problem of this country, and then everyone has their own attitude, and it seems that all those who say that the poor judiciary cancer of this society's wounds are right. What this answer differs from all previous ones is that for the first time someone put this on paper, signed and struck the seal, because it is said that the holders of judicial functions are protected in the conduct of their work, in the conduct of their function, and that it did not look back at it for a moment when they go outside that framework, when they abuse their judicial function. So it's thought to be protected at that point. You know what this message is to prosecutors, judges? You do whatever you want, nobody can do anything to you. It is a specific case because it has confirmation of the Federation Supreme Court that five years has been led in the wrong direction, and a large number of people have participated in it, and the VSTV says – there will be nothing. So this document will indeed be the subject of a number of debates in the coming period, not just here in Parliament, because it is really the first time that someone puts their, I repeat, signature and strike the seal to say that abuse of judicial functions is not subject to any responsibility. That has to change.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-09-20-0.u10583	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-09-20-0.u10584	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I received one answer, as you said, from the BiH Prosecutor's Office, and it refers to the position and status of Mr Selme Cikotić in the case of the injuries of the Bugojan Hrvat. Namely, you fellow Members remember that I was asking it as a question, a question, so how to run for member of the Council of Ministers, etc., I got some answers I got. However, what my colleague Magazinović was saying about the state of the prosecution, again the law that someone also imposed on us, and I'm just going to say this time that HDZ did not support those reports in the past, and in this case it has never supported them, unlike others, and now they're all full of the state of the prosecution and the judiciary. So, I've asked a question... but it's not even a costume, you know I haven't got from Chief Bihac, I think there's one two and a half years, three, the answer at all where the money is worse for refugees and exiles, and not a man thinks I should answer it at all, because this is our Law on Parliamentary Oversight I think it's worth something, which is what we do, so... what I just said, I asked the D.A.'s office, so it's 21.09.2020. I got the answer on 02.08.2021, so here's almost a year. Thank you very much, therefore, and just so you know in that answer, it is said that in 2018, the prosecutor, who retired, means Mr Selm Cikotić took it out of the case, so on the murders of the Bugojan Hrvat, and that these were the people who had the right to complain about it only in 2020 when some prosecutor remembered and deployed the case to someone else, and then he informed the parties in the process of having the right to complain. Imagine you, so two years ago a woman did it, retired, security agencies as they didn't know and they fit us. Whether they knew it or not that he was in the appointment case was my first motive to ask this question. 11 Now, this is, therefore, something where we are unfortunately, and I do not know simply what to say except what I said in the opening part about our work, about our condition, about our thinking. And I hope, hopefully, that we'll finally change something towards, our relationship to all of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-09-20-0.u10585	Thank you very much. We don't have any more logs. Moving to agenda number three, Ad. 3. Representatives Jasmin Emrić, Saša Magazinović and Damir Arnaut's request to discuss the bill on preventing conflicts of interest in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, No 01-02-1-1393/21, of 07.07.20121. The legislative and legal sector has delivered its opinion. I'm opening an emergency hearing. There are no reported, there is, a respected representative of Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-09-20-0.u10587	I thought my colleague Arnaut would, uh, come in. Well, very simply, this is a zakon that has already been in the process and received support from the House of Representatives. Meanwhile, various procedural tools have been stopped. And we as promoters said ok, if this is an agreement between the EU Delegation in Sarajevo and the Ministry of Justice to make some law that will be acceptable to everyone and to adopt it by emergency procedure. The law was made by the Ministry and you had the opportunity to read in the media what the Venice Commission and experts in this area think about it. So something that doesn't even meet minimum requirements. The reason why we returned this law to procedure is because, obviously, by the Ministry of Justice, there is no good will to meet this condition which is one of those 14. And in order not to waste time, we returned the Law that had already received the support of a home, to try it with. I'm sorry we've wasted our time and that our good will has been misused in some way to pull the lever. Here are colleagues Arnaut and Emrić, we were very cooperative, but apparently it was used by the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-09-20-0.u10588	Dear Representative Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-09-20-0.u10589	Thank you. So I can't agree with that, and I don't think it's true that the Ministry of Justice/Justice is doing anything about these laws. I, as far as I know, expect from 12 parliamentary-dominated colleagues, who are here, to confirm that, so it has been very intense on this bill. He may not have been agreed in all segments with, therefore, the Venice Commission, for example. Or, I don't know who, right, who should tell us how it's supposed to be and what it's supposed to be, I don't know, but it's been working and it hasn't come to the Council of Ministers. So it can't be true that the Justice Minister isn't working on it. He did what he could, therefore, and we even, as far as I know, have one, therefore, agreement in preparation, in the preparatory phase of meeting one of those 14 conditions, at least within the parliamentary majority, to make a bill, however, here, each time some new situation finds us. So, and then generally, we're asking that not a new repressive law be passed, but a preventive, anti-corruption preventive law, not a repressive law, which, here you are proposing again, and which someone is asking of us. We've got criminal law, if there's anything criminal to put into criminal law, it's no problem. We need, therefore, a law that is anti-corruption preventive law, nothing more, nothing more. So, the Ministry worked on it, which didn't agree with all the factors involved in the procedure I don't know, but, therefore, it doesn't exactly stand for what you've said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-09-20-0.u10590	Dear Representative Magazinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-09-20-0.u10591	So I'm saying it was working, so that's where we're not different. So, the Justice Department worked, it just worked in a way that produced a law that doesn't meet even the minimum conditions that, from the one who sets those conditions, are marked as sufficient to give that law the green light. We're talking about the European Union. I agree with you, it can also be preventive, and repressive, and whatever, but by adopting that law, we meet the conditions of the European Union, because this is one of the 14 priorities. And no matter what you and I think about some law, it's important to us at this point what the institutions of the European Union think about it. You're right that it was working, and I say it was working, and it was working that way that, that the comments from the Venice Commission were defeated. It was done in accordance with the agreement for MPs to withdraw their proposals, so the ministry would also give to speed it up. And this is how the whole process slows down by law. And that's why this law is back in the process and therefore corresponds to the possibility, so the urgency is because it is urgent to do and because we have already passed this text here in this House and where they are respected, Mr. Lovrinović, and your amendments and are an integral part of this material.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-09-20-0.u10592	Representative Lovrinović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-09-20-0.u10593	My colleague Magazinović, so I'm sorry when he can't already, I don't know, so from whom he got a negative opinion, a negative attitude, because I don't know, so you know, I have no idea. The paper says, so I didn't get it as a parliamentarian or what he was sending there or what he got in response. So, when I get that, I can discuss it relevantly. But, uh, if that's the European Commission's position, as you say, I, as far as I know, is required to get the opinion of the Venice Commission, I have therefore proposed a declaration to be, to get candidate status when we can no longer avoid what is a European standard. But we don't have it now. So, who sets the conditions for us, who puts it to us and why, what conditions. So we need to have the law, we have someone who might be anachron, right, it needs to be perfected, it needs to be done, I don't mind. And I am sorry 13 and I hope that when we normalise this Parliament's work that the parliamentary majority, if the Minister of Justice can't, will propose this law that we agree here, if it can't... And what could not, therefore, the Minister of Justice. I don't know if he'll please everyone. And when we get the candidate status, and I suggested that we be assigned, then we won't be able to, so maybe we won't even say what's not a European standard, it'll have to be built in. Well, I'm up for it. So, no problem, give us the candidate status, and then it'll be as you say. But yet I still point out we don't need a criminal law that some power centre is managing Nikola Lovrinović for which he will raise his voice, threatening the sanctions under that law, but we need anti-corruption preventive law, nothing more. And the penitentiary, there's a criminal code to be put in, and this is how they learned to put stuff in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-09-20-0.u10594	Please, let's focus on discussing an emergency procedure request. Representative Emrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-09-20-0.u10595	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I would like to support my colleague Magazinović's discussion when he explained the need for today's emergency procedure to be seen on the proposal for a law on preventing conflicts of interest in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Short to remind. We adopted this Law at one of the previous meetings of the House of Representatives and this Law should continue the legislative procedure in a way that is also discussed by the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. When it was due to be on the agenda of one of the meetings of the House of Peoples, the Constitutional Commission of the House of Nations found that the proposal, that is, that the Law adopted by the House of Representatives has shortcomings, as they stated, and they asked the House of Representatives to correct the shortcomings. The shortcomings are as follows: - in the debate on the bill proposal, before it will be adopted by the House of Representatives, amendments by the HDZ and the SNSD have been proposed and double amendments to some of the members of the Law, more specifically Articles 19 and 20. The law, where they solve this particular situation that is prescribed by these members in different ways, that I do not explain it in detail now. Both amendments were voted and adopted, so amendments to both the SNSD and the HDZ and the bill were adopted. And after the Constitutional Commission of the House of Nations discussed the bill, they found that this doubt and this double solution should be resolved by the House of Representatives. We tried to reach a solution in our presence at the session of the Constitutional Legal Commission at the House of Peoples but, behold, we failed and this Law brought the House of Peoples back to the House of Representatives, or he will not continue the legislative process. As legislators, in view of the effort that has been made, the years behind us, in order for this Law to be adopted, we have decided that the same Law, which was adopted at the House of Representatives, with these amendments, should be incorporated into a new text, to address this situation and to return it to the legislative process. And this is it, this is it. That's why it's an emergency procedure. We have adopted this by our distinguished colleagues and colleagues, we need to confirm, resolve this dilemma that was with the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples and they will accept it and this law will continue the legislative process, i.e. I hope that it will be discussed by the House of Peoples and that it will be adopted. Thank you. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2021-09-20-0.u10596	Thank you. Dear Representative Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-09-20-0.u10597	Well, I'm really wondering if it's our goal to pass laws according to European standards or not. I don't understand the discussion of fellow Lovrinović who says – we don't know what is not a good law that is in the Council of Ministers but I don't know what time, and we all know that the text of the law is worse than what we have. And secondly, is that what we need to keep going for some time by the Council of Ministers, so, here, there are some initiatives that last two years and they're not finished yet, etc. So if we're doing the law and we're supposed to have the law, I guess we should have it in accordance with European standards right now, so tomorrow when we get the candidate status here, we'll at least have something settled. Therefore, in any case, I support the adoption today of a decision on an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-09-20-0.u10598	Thank you. Representative Lovrinović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-09-20-0.u10599	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So here's first of all to my colleague Lepić, so you're saying he's worse than he is, that if you're a constant(?I mean, if you're saying that that's the way it is. So, I don't know, you can have that attitude, but you can say here that this law is worse than the one we have to say it to Parliament eventually, possibly. So, fellow Emrić, we had the amendments that were put here, so torn down, so now it's back from the House of Peoples, etc. And here, this is one of the laws that I was talking about in that adoption of the agenda, as we do, by a hasty procedure without colleagues. And he'll probably be adopted today. And we all know very well, therefore, that this has no end. I understand the discussion, I understand the desire to contribute to a better solution, I understand the desire to force the parliamentary majority to work or that whoever is to work, the Minister of Justice, the Council of Ministers, all of it, but I don't understand the force of things in this Parliament. And this isn't the first time. And today will be an emergency procedure, so it will again end up at the House of Peoples. And we all know that, and we know all that, without colleagues, an emergency procedure will be adopted, we, here, will not be for this emergency procedure from the HDZ Club, and the law will be zakon, and then we will say in the media – well, there they are, therefore, not for the European path of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I remember the report here, 180 pages were, about the state of the European path of Bosnia and Herzegovina...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-09-20-0.u10600	Mr. Lovrinović, the matter of an emergency procedure. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2021-09-20-0.u10601	Excuse me, I'm finishing up. So when it was 180 pages and it was delivered at the request of us here to discuss the European path no one has come to mind, no one, no one, and it was not the first time, about the European path, about the state, etc. So we can't, by an emergency procedure, solve something that's also a priority without colleagues. I don't understand what that story is going to mean, here we go again, and we want the next session to be normal. Here, Bog willing, we'll see.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-09-20-0.u10602	Thank you. There is no more, there is Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, correcting the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-09-20-0.u10603	The colleagues themselves decided to express their position, and this is a colleague, Lovrinović, even in the debate on the agenda, stressed that the legitimate attitude of someone to boycott work and, behold, that is their position and that does not mean that we should not do it. And in order for us parliamentarians to be familiar with the law of the Council of Ministers, so primarily the Ministry of Justice, and then the Council of Ministers, we should finally get it in the process, but we don't get it for months and years. Well, then we have to decide something, here, which is also proposed by the authorised legislators, and these are the MPs themselves.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-09-20-0.u10604	Thank you. No more reports. Please state that we are voting on an emergency request. Thank you. There's a general majority, there's no entity majority. There's no matchmate here, so later on, we're going to have to carry out the committee's alignment and proceed with the procedure regarding this agenda item. Let's move on, agenda number four, Ad. 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-153/21 of 04.06.2021. (second reading) That proposal for a law was adopted in the first reading of the previous session of the House of Representatives, the Finance and Budget Commission submitted its Report, the Commission adopted the draft law. Now I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. There are no reports. Thank you. 16 Let's move on, agenda point number five, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Bill on the Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2021, Proposer: BiH Presidency, issue: 01,02- 02-1-306/21 of 24.06.2021. (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2021-09-20-0.u10607	Here, I'd just like to brief the MPs, not take up a lot of your time, and the second thing I don't understand is how the amendments aren't attached here in this material, so on the computer. So, regardless of the fact that the Commission has not accepted the proposed amendments, I have decided to re-delegate them, given that certain areas in which money is constantly missing, and that this budget is not, therefore, in any case appropriate to the situation in which we are in which we find ourselves, so there is no appropriate postage, that is, still as we see the pandemic going on, and therefore is not focused at all on certain savings and rerouting resources where it is most necessary, and yet we witness, therefore, that they are getting, obtaining a lot of official vehicles, increasing costs for official travel, etc. if, at the same time, funds are missing in certain areas or are not foreseen. So, here, I will just say that I have proposed, therefore, to increase the funds, i.e. to co-finance travel costs to international sports competitions, of course the highest rank, these are world championships, European championships or global or European club competitions, athletic myths, etc. Since we are witnessing that we are constantly questioning the performance of our teams on or on individuals in the highest-ranking competitions due to lack of money. I have also suggested increasing funds to the economic code of 614 300, so the Ministry of Civil Affairs, grants to non-profit organisations, which are co-financing projects of BiH's institutions, because I also find this area unfairly neglected. What I have also suggested is an increase of 100,000 in economic code 821 300 is an increase in border police equipment, i.e. to purchase border police equipment, since we are constantly listening, we read that they are very difficult to deal with the migrant crisis, and given the current developments in Afghanistan, so it is possible that we can only increase the inflow of refugees, migrants again, and especially since the funds from 2020 for these purposes are reduced by 600,000. What is embarrassingly low is the means provided for by organisations that encourage people with disabilities and support them. So there's only 80,000 for these purposes, we know how many, how many problems this population is dealing with, and that's where I predicted an increase of 100,000. And finally, therefore, Roma employment also means only 30,000 is foreseen for, pardon not employment but Roma education, there is only 30,000 for these purposes, and therefore my proposal is also to increase these funds by 100,000. Thank you. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2021-09-20-0.u10608	Thank you. The secretary informed me about, informed me that your amendments were divided by clubs, so the MPs had the opportunity to be familiar with these amendments. I see there's no record of any of these ending the hearing. We're going to agenda number six, Ad. Six. Commission report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal of MP Nikola Lovrinović for the entry into the agenda of 22nd session of the House of Representatives of the New Points: Proposal for a declaration on obtaining candidate status for membership in the European Union, issue: 01-50-1-15-22/21 of 08.07.20121. After the last House session did not require an entity majority in the first round of the House College vote as a commission, it did not reach agreement on the proposal. The Commission's report to the College you received, the debate is closed, remains to be later declared in the second round of voting on the proposal of MP Nikola Lovrinović. Let's move on, point seven, Ad. Seven. Commission report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal of representative Sanja Vulić for the entry into the agenda of 22nd session of the House of Representatives of the New Points: Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Research Commission for the Determination of the Status in BHRT, issue: 01-50-1392/21, link: 01-50-1-22/21 of 08.07.20121.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-09-20-0.u10619	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-09-20-0.u10620	Well, there's no other way. Well, then we have to go back and open a debate on each of the proposed agenda points. Point 16. Point 16. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement by exchange of notes between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Japan on Japanese grants of five hundred million Japanese yen, issue: 01,02-21-1-1640/21 of 18.08.2021. The Foreign Affairs Commission gave its positive opinion. I'm opening a debate. Niko one's answering, I'm closing the debate. Let's go to point 17. Ad. 17. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement by means of a note exchange between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Japan on Japanese grants of 100,000 Japanese yen for the equipment of medical institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01.02-21-1-1647/21 of 19.08.2021. 21
