ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8589	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats, register to begin with the 15th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 15th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House of Representatives. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers and all present at this session, since we are at the first session of the House of Representatives in this year, and the 15th Regular House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly, I would first and foremost wish everyone good in life, you and your families, and especially all MPs and, of course, members of the Council of Ministers every good in the work and this House of Representatives. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] The absence from the session was justified by MP Mirsad Kukić, with 40 MPs presently attending the session. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As indicated in the call for a session, in accordance with Article 167. The Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session, before the debate on the agenda, MPs will be allowed to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The rules of procedure for asking parliamentary questions in oral form were submitted by the following representatives: Zukan Helez to the BiH Council of Ministers; Nenad Nešić to the BiH Finance and Treasury Minister; Mirko Šarović to the BiH Council of Ministers Chairman; Adil Osmanović za ministar BiH ljudski pravo i izbjeglica BiH; Saša Magazinović to the BiH Council of Ministers; Alma Čolo Minister of Justice; Damir Arnaut to the BiH Security Minister; Branislav Borenović to the BiH Minister of Finance and Treasury. These announcements were made in accordance with Article 168(2) of the Rules of Procedure to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and to that member of the BiH Council of Ministers to whom the issue concerns. I would also like to remind you that a direct TV transmission of this part of the session is provided in accordance with Article 167(1) of the Rules of Procedure. Now we can start by asking oral questions and giving answers. I give my word to counsel Zukan Helez. Agent, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8590	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Chairman, representatives of the executive authority, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, my question has been addressed to the Council of Ministers' chairman, as well as to the Council's entire meeting of 2 ministers, and concerns the procurement and distribution of the vaccine against COVID-19. As you know, the whole world is now in this business, every country, except BiH as much as I have information, my question is: Is there a plan for the purchase and distribution of the vaccine, from which we are getting the vaccine, it is clear to everyone that they are not the same vaccines from Russia, China, USA, Great Britain, Germany, etc. who is the vaccine manufacturer, what amount of vaccine is obtained, what is the price, given the poor experience of obtaining respirators that are also related to COVID-19, which is the price of this vaccine, does the distribution plan have lower levels of government, entities, cantons, municipalities, which population groups are priority during vaccination, are there any categories of population that will be released from the payment of the vaccine? As many countries are already known in the advanced phase and acquisition and vaccination, I will only take the example of the state of Israel, which plans in February to be a collective immunisation of the entire population of that country, and we have not yet begun to obtain the vaccine. Who will be responsible, even guilty for all those who lose battle with Kovid - 19 in the next period, what happens if the countries in the environment are immuneizing, the population is vaccinated, and we remain in isolation who will be responsible for the damage that will be done to the economy and all branches of the economy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8591	The President of the Council of Ministers' reply, please welcome Mr. Tegeltija.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8592	Honorable working presidency, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen. I will try to answer this broadly when it comes to the supply of vaccines. The COVID-19 pandemic is a global issue and we are facing it and through this process we have tried to be part of the global process, primarily cooperation with the European Union and through the procurement of medicines and through the acquisition of medical equipment, through the exchange of experiences in the treatment of Kovid, and through the process of obtaining the vaccine. You remember the first announcements that the vaccine will appear at the beginning of the year, and that the population around the world in the first half of 2021 will be largely vaccinated, those priority groups of the population. In line with that, BiH joined the so-called We signed this contract in September 2020, which was joined by 186 other countries and we paid and ordered 1,232,000 vaccines, in total worth of a million, the advances that we were about to pay and paid at that time amounted to $1,970,000. The remaining part of BiH's funds has been paid in full, although these vaccines have not yet been obtained and we have paid $12322,000 of vaccines for this 1,2907,000, these funds have been paid by entities and Brcko District. The Council of Ministers provided two million converting marks through the Ministry of Civil Affairs for what are called technical support in the procurement of vaccines, namely transport, storage, delivery to the lower ones, to institutions from health institutions that will carry out the vaccination process. Of these 1,232,000 doses of vaccines are scheduled for the Federation of BiH 800,000, Republika Srpska 400,000 and Brcko District 32,000 doses of these vaccines, it is 20% of the BiH population and these are only the first orders planned to purchase this vaccine. According to the latest information we received on 06 January of the first dose, the first quantities of this 1,232,000 will arrive by the end of January and not to advertise vaccine producers at this time, will come those vaccines that are most difficult to transport, which 3 are the most difficult to store, but those vaccines that are first registered in the world and approved for their use. Of course, the entire vaccination program was defined by the entity health ministries and the Health Department in the Brcko District. Compared to this process through the Kovaks BiH system, together with the EU, it has joined the joint procurement of vaccines through the so-called "Kovaks BiH". The EU's mechanism for obtaining vaccines, and at that point we agreed on about 892,000 doses of vaccines. Of course, there are two vaccines in the EU supply mechanism so far that are the only ones approved in the EU and will be part of that system. The entire transport system, delivery of vaccines, etc. is planned and he agrees between the Ministry of Civil Affairs, the Ministry of Health and the Department of Health of the Brcko District. Today while we're sitting... there's still a session, there's a meeting between these appointed ministries that discuss details of the delivery of that vaccine. When it comes to the price, you see for yourself from this first amount that the price of one dose is one vaccine moving at a level of $10 and probably other vaccines will move within the frameworks of those prices. Of course, the entity ministries that are in charge have identified priority vaccination groups and at this point they are known, these are health workers and all the auxiliary staff in health institutions, the population over 65 years old with chronic diseases and persons and staff in institutions, the accommodation of elderly persons. I am sure that BiH, along with its partner and through the Kovaks system and through the EU procurement system, will also be on time and in those deadlines as well as some other countries obtained vaccines. BiH has the necessary financial resources to obtain vaccines for the needs of BiH citizens, for all priority groups of citizens in BiH vaccines will be free of charge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8593	Thank you, Council of Ministers Chairman. Does the representative want to comment on the answer? Hello, Agent Zukan Helez, here's your word. I don't know what it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8594	Thank you. Well, I'd like to thank the chairman, give a pretty thorough answer, and somehow I'm calmer as a man who's been through and his family is all of this, and I know what the consequences are, and how hard it is to bear it all, I'm glad it's far better than what, after what he presented to the chairman of the Council of Ministers than we, uh, what we can read in the media and those who, whether, inform the public. Of course, since we're a complicated state of BiH and I'm constantly reading entities will get from here, they'll get from there, and I'd be very happy to know that it's from one company, from one, from one, all of us to receive the same vaccines, this one, and that we all sort of treat ourselves the same way as all the other normal states. Mostly thanks to the chairman, and I'm pretty pleased with what I've heard from him.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8595	Thank you, counsel. I give my word to President Nenad Nešić. Here you go, counselor. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8596	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, my question concerns, i.e. the Minister of Finance and Treasury, Mr. Vjekoslav Bevanda, and it reads: Do you consider as Minister of Finance that it is moral that at the time of the pandemic of the coronary virus and the difficult economic situation when tens of thousands of people are out of work and that the country is in charge, the Direct Taxation Authority buys a building in Banja Luka worth close to 100 million converting marks, given that there are still 37.5 million KM planned to buy buildings in Banja Luka in 2018, and that these funds remain neutral, whether you will give consent to the execution of another 60 million KM for this unnecessary investment or you will, according to Article 9. The BiH institutions' budget law and international commitments for 2020 suggest that the purchase of the building should be abandoned and the 37.5 million KM re-directed to more necessary projects? And he would still ask the finance minister – does he know that BiH hosts have to sell 500 million coffees to pay 100 million converting marks in BiH's budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8597	Thank you. Answer, Minister of Finance and Treasury of BiH, Mr. Bevanda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8598	Greetings to everyone with a desire for successful work, I'll normally try to frame myself in those two minutes, uh, answers. I'm not going to comment on this morally, normally, but I'm going to focus on the answer. So, the Decision approving the project to purchase the building for the Regional Centres and the Central Office of the Directorate for indirect taxation, construction and reconstruction of the border crossings, published in the "Official Messenger of BiH" number: 20/15, 2015, approved funds for the construction of the Central Office in Banja Luka in the total amount of 37,900,000 marks, and according to structure, means the facility 36 million and the equipment of the building of millions and 900. In accordance with that decision, the Ministry of Finance has since 2015, 2016, to date, since I have since approved budget appropriations in the budget code of the Directorate for Low Taxation in the same amount. Neither the Directorate for Irregular Taxation asked the Ministry of Finance, nor the Ministry of Finance proposed any increase in that amount, you can see for yourself in the budget for last year, and I hope that you will soon have a budget for this year. I didn't understand this for coffee, uh, well, but you were about to tell me, do I know how much coffee it takes to sell to get back, I'm good at math. Thank you. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8599	Thank you, Minister of Finance and Treasury. Does the representative want to comment on the answer? Here, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8600	I don't know how the coffee minister didn't get this right, but I'll explain it to him. Since the caterers are one of the branches most affected by the coronary virus pandemic, I have only stated that they must sell 500 million coffee to pay in BiH's budget 100 million converting marks and I don't know what's unclear. I am not satisfied with your answer, I believe that at the time of this pandemic some decisions need to be reconsidered, or that the funds can certainly be invested in better things than buying a building and that the purchase of a building should be left for a while.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8601	...a representative. I give the word to MP Mirko Šarović.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8602	Thank you. I am taking the opportunity to welcome you all and it is a matter of the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Tegeltija, which reads: Why the Council of Ministers is not scheduled
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8603	I'd like a representative just a little closer to the microphone.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8604	Closer, okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8605	If it's not a problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8606	Sure, sure.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8607	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8608	I'll talk to you now, that's enough, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8609	Yeah. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8610	The question for the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Tegelti, is: Why did the Council of Ministers not adopt the BiH institution budget draft for 2021 within the legal deadline? It is clear, however, that according to our regulation under the law relating to BiH institutions, the Council of Ministers is required to adopt or adopt the draft budget by October or half of October and to direct it to the BiH presidency, and then to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Since the deadlines have all passed, we know the importance of BiH institutions, I think this is a very dramatic situation, we do not have a clear answer on this issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8611	Thank you. Answer, Council of Ministers Chairman, Mr. Tegeltija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8612	Thank you very much. Dear Presidency, fellow Members of Parliament, I agree that the budget is not proposed within the defined legal deadline, there are both objective and subjective reasons, but they are absolutely not important at this time and I really don't want to talk about them, especially not these subjective reasons. When it comes to the budgets of BiH's joint institutions, I have looked at the last three years and none has been adopted within the deadlines. The Council of Ministers adopted the budget for 2018 in January 2018, we adopted the budget for 2019 at the very end, in December 2019, we adopted the 2020 budget in July 2020. As far as the 2021 budget is concerned, what I can only say is, we did not respect the deadline, but by the end of January 2021, the Council of Ministers will determine the draft budget of the joint institutions for 2021 and refer it to the Presidency as an authorised proposer to refer it to further procedures, and afterwards to appear before this House. We expect, so if we have, by the end of January, that by the end of February, we can have adopted the budget of the joint institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8613	Thank you, Council of Ministers Chairman. Does the representative want to comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8614	Yes, thank you. Of course, the chairman said that there are subjective reasons, which he did not state, along with all the objective ones, I think it was our turn to hear them too, if we don't hear them in some other way and I don't think it's right to go back on, chairing some period that's behind us, whether something was adopted in December, in November, it's the responsibility of some others, those others have accounted for it. It has its own responsibility for two thousand and, budget 2020. Seven years, that's completely clear. Whenever it is adopted, it is the responsibility of the Council of Ministers and institutions which, of course, are in charge of it and we do not have any of this promise that it will be now in January, here January is already running and it is quite clear that we are well, well behind on the adoption of the budget for 2021.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8615	Thank you, counsel. I give my word to Attorney Adil Osmanović. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8616	Thank you, Chairman. Dear members of the College, colleagues and fellow MPs, chairman of the Council of Ministers and members of the Council of Ministers, I warmly welcome you all. My question was addressed to the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees. Despite the fact that every other Bosanac and Hercegovac lives in the emigration, it is inexplicable that more than a year neither at the BiH Council of Ministers nor in this institution, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, no material that treats the area has been considered. So I ask the question: 1. Why are the Council of Ministers not looking at materials related to emigration, diaspora and thus neither in the BiH Parliament? 2. What has the ministry done in the past year to affirm co-operation with emigration, diaspora, or how much material has it prepared and directed towards the BiH Council of Ministers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8617	Thank you, counsel. Answer, BiH Minister of Human Rights and Refugees, Mr. Lučić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8618	Thank you, Chairman, I'd like to say hello first. By taking over the duties of BiH Human Rights and Refugee Ministers, I found thirty materials in the adoption procedure at the Council of Ministers, and certain materials were waiting for the necessary consent, including several from the Immigrants Sector. As BiH's Minister of Human Rights and Refugees, I seek to carry out agreed practice on the inclusion of material at a meeting of the Council of Ministers, which implies that all materials go into further procedure only after obtaining all necessary consent from various BiH-level institutions, entity-level institutions. When it comes to materials from the immigration sector, in particular three, four materials, which have been on the e-government for a long time, signed by the previous minister, did not have the necessary consent, and for this reason were not included in the Council of Ministers' agenda. Both for these materials, which are the subject of this issue and for all others immediately upon receipt of all necessary consent, the Ministry of the Ministry, whose head I am will refer it to further procedure to include on the agenda of the Council of Ministers. Thank you. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8619	Thank you, Minister. Representative's comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8620	So I assumed that I would get this answer, but I want to say to the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees when it comes to certain opinions and consent, the issue of emigration and diaspora is directly in BiH's jurisdiction and there is no need to wait for an opinion from entities, nor to send an opinion to entities at all. Therefore, those materials that are prepared, which are located in the ministry, I expect to be forwarded as soon as possible to the BiH Council of Ministers meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8621	Thank you. The word has a representative, Saša Magazinović. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8622	Thank you. A brief question, so perhaps a little bit more in my comment, the chairman of the Council of Ministers: What have you done in here in half of your mandate on the legalisation of cannabis for medical purposes and what is in the plan for the next period, I suppose, and if you know, if you don't know what the problem is, or where is the error in the Law on the prevention and prevention of drug abuse, and you know that the World Health Organization has also recommended legalisation of cannabis for medical purposes, and the European Parliament has recently made decisions?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8623	Thank you. The President of the Council of Ministers' reply, Mr. Tegeltija, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8624	Thank you very much. At its 21st session, held on 3 December 2020, the Council of Ministers set out a proposal for an answer to MP Magazinović's question on the subject he is talking about today. I hope that the parliamentary question has been delivered to you, to all MPs, and in it is a precisely defined procedure concerning this process. On September 15th, 02nd, at the 15th session of the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers adopted a decision appointing members of the Commission for the control of drug abuse, which, in accordance with its competences, I believe, will run for the legalisation of cannabis for medical purposes in order for the institutions to take a final and official position. Why am I talking about this Commission, why am I talking about this Council of Ministers session? Because the previous composition of this Commission in 2019 did not reach agreement on the amendment of this law. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prevention and control of 9 drug abuses is addressed in the procedure of obtaining appropriate opinions from competent institutions before it is held at a meeting of the Council of Ministers. I personally express my understanding of Mr Magazinović's activities, the topic in question and his insistence in both this and the previous meeting to take steps towards legalising cannabis for medical purposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8625	Thank you, Council of Ministers Chairman. Agent, does he want to comment on the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8626	Yes, I do. Chairman, from this point on, I see that your engagement has not been done, and I would like it to exist, because you can help to legalize cannabis, if you want. You should know that the minister of the Republika Srpska government, Mr. Šeranić, I had a very constructive conversation with him, this is supported by SNSD. That Minister Mandić at the HDZ Federation also supports that your Minister Gudeljević HDZ, who I also spoke to, with all of them I sat and talked to, supported. That Minister Cikotić, security, also supports, here I see Osmanović, who was former minister, also supporting the SDA. So this is a question that there is no political opponent in this country, in a sea of problems where we disagree politically this is one of the few places where everyone agrees. So there's no man, there's no religious community, there's no institution that said we're against and you're wrong when you say no consent has been reached. No agreement has been reached on how to amend the law, but there is an agreement for everyone to resolve this issue. Meanwhile, citizens of cannabis oil buy on the black market, at huge prices, dealers earn on their misfortune, sell them motor oil as cannabis oil. The countries in the environment are taking steps forward, so in Macedonia it is allowed for citizens to grow, I am not going into that story, I am talking about medicine and treatment, and we are, we are having a problem and that is why I am talking to you and I am going to end up with this, that people who agree put together for one table. You know the stories of this commission to solve this issue? Never. This question will be resolved when you do what I do, which is not my job, which is yours, to sit with ministers, to call them, so call the meeting of Šeranić, Mandić, Gudeljević, Cikotić, all are for and tell people how to handle this. He's got you. The written solution, I believe, is that the Federal Minister has a vision and you solve this problem, so don't let the dealers make money on our citizens' accidents. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8627	Thank you, counsel. I give the word to the MPs Alim Čolo, here are the MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8628	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome all those present in the hall, given that the people of the HDZ BiH dispute the appeal jurisdiction of the BiH Court of Justice in a way that the chairman of the House of Representatives, Mrs Borjana Krišto, has submitted a request to the Constitutional Court of BiH for the assessment of the constitutionality of the BiH Court of Justice, asking for the non-constitutional provisions of this Law relating to the 10th jurisdiction of the Court of Justice to decide in the second degree on complaints in criminal and administrative proceedings and in the third degree to be declared against the judicial decisions of the Court of Justice of BiH, which also comes from the HDZ: Does the BiH Ministry of Justice take action to draft the Law on the BiH Court of Justice or the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Court of BiH, which would partially fulfil the number of the six European Commission, which is also coming from the HDZ: Does the Ministry of Justice and the European Court of Justice in the Law of Justice, through European Court of Justice, as well as by means of Justice of BiH, and by means of Justice, by means of BiH? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8629	Thank you. Answer, Minister of Justice, Mr. Grubeša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8630	Honored chairman, distinguished members of the College, esteemed MPs and MPs, colleagues from the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. A decision of 14 September 2020 established the Working Party for the Preparation of the Draft Law on BiH Courts in charge of finding adequate solutions to establish a new appeal or senior court of BiH, separate from the Court of First Instance, reflecting the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice of BiH, as well as the finding of consensus on the need for further objectification of the parameters governing the jurisdiction of the BiH Court of Justice in the case of criminal offences prescribed by entity law, i.e. the Brcko District Penal Code. Due to the worsening epidemiological situation, the first meeting planned for late October was postponed, and due to the uncertainty and joint meeting, the Ministry of Justice proposed that we try at least partially to settle undeniable issues through electronic communication. For the sake of that Ministry of Justice, it prepared general provisions of the draft law which essentially reflect the uncontested proposals which are a product of earlier work, and also provided the members of the Working Group with the same provision, but also asked members to make possible proposals on how to work, which would make the final draft of the law faster. The ministry of justice has not yet received an indication from all members of the Working Group on both the proposed provisions and the way the work continues. In 2019, as regards the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the VSTV, the Ministry of Justice established a Working Group for making comprehensive amendments to the Law on the VSTV of BiH, in which representatives of the relevant institutions are, given that a serious task has been put before the Working Group, and given that so far the need for amendments that do not endure the delaying of the Ministry of Justice has prepared amendments to the law which will be referred to the procedure as soon as business conditions are obtained. And as for the initiative towards the Constitutional Court, it means, after ten years of unsuccessful work to amend the law through the Structural Dialogue, as well as through the work of the Working Group, it is clear that as long as someone fits this structure, there will be no necessary reform, so maybe declaring the provisions unconstitutional will lead us finally to set up the judiciary at the state level as this legal tradition and our other regulations require. Thank you very much. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8631	Thank you, Minister. Does the representative want to comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8632	Dear Ministers, you've been educated for the Latin language professor, and Latin, knowledge of Latin is a prerequisite for someone to enroll in law school. You're under the circumstances of a minister of justice and you're trying to deaden the justice ministry, such as a dead Latin language that you should teach in schools, you're not talking anywhere. You know what will happen if this Working Group of yours doesn't prepare the Law on BiH Courts and deliver it to the parliamentary procedure, and I don't think it will, because you didn't deliver the Law on VSTV, and since 2019 you've been preparing it, it will happen that all those convicted by the BiH Court of War Crimes, organised crime, terrorism, corruption, will not be able to go to a sentence because their verdict can't become a forceful one, because the provisions on the BiH Court of Appeal that would be considering complaints, possibly, those judgments, are being initiated by a request that those provisions be declared unconstitutional and I'm afraid that what you're doing is in vain work, the law of the same party from which you come from.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8633	Thank you, counselor. Representative Damir Arnaut, you have the word representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8634	Thank you, Chairman. The question is addressed to the Minister of Security: So, as competent resolution ministers when it comes to border police, will you ensure that this institution begins to provide concrete answers to concrete parliamentary questions? So, for some time now and I'm really talking about a period of more than a year, I've been trying to get a response from the Border Police, whether BiH officials in BiH's institutions have used foreign state passports in the past, even though the law in BiH makes it very clear that it is necessary to use BiH's travel document to cross the border. And the border police have confirmed in their answers that they have, they do not want to share them, although it is an obvious public interest, this one, and at the same time in September in co-operation with your ministry, you started punishing the citizens of BiH, so ordinary citizens who are using, whether, personal tickets to cross the state border, and here they do not even want to give the data. Also, they do not answer my question, the border police do not answer my question: How many people have prevented, illegal migrants, in an attempt to cross the border towards Serbia, or those who come from Serbia to BiH, and how many have they prevented those who are trying to go to Croatia and the rest of the EU? 12 So we come across a really one obstruction and I ask you to ensure that as a competent resolution minister, they start fulfilling their legal obligation, because this is not just a business matter, but the Law on Parliamentary Control prescribes sanctions for not answering parliamentary questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8635	Thank you. Answer, BiH Security Minister, Mr. Cikotić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8636	Dear members of the College, distinguished representatives of the House of Representatives, colleagues from the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Representative Arnaut, in the communication I have with the Director of the Border Police, as an independent management unit, I have received an answer to your question which I will read as it is written. The BiH Border Police provide timely proposals for responding to them in accordance with legal competences and available information, so that the criteria for providing responses to MPs can be met fully within the prescribed time limit. In relation to this insight I have the exception is the question you asked on 07.12. I received an answer from the Director of the Border Police and he was directed to the Council of Ministers on the adoption and delivery procedure to the Parliamentary Assembly on 25.12. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8637	Thank you, Minister. Does the representative want to comment? Here, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8638	Well Minister, I don't know if you've heard what I am, so I haven't asked you to read me some information, which is not true, but I have asked – will you as Minister ensure that MPs begin to receive concrete answers to specific parliamentary questions? So we have media reports that senior officials in BiH institutions are using foreign-state pigs to cross BiH's state border, although the law makes it clear that when they cross the BiH border they have the use of passport, i.e. BiH's travel document. So it is not disputed if they use a foreign passport when they go somewhere else, at another border, but for our border, the law makes it clear that it is necessary to use it. So I was looking for information on whether or not the officials were involved. They refuse to give it, they confirm in their answers that they have that information, they refuse to give that information. Now I ask you, and now I insist on the written answer, the answer in writing, which is my business opportunity, to deliver to me whether or not you will, yes or no, don't send me, read it, etc. Will you or will you not ensure that the Border Police begin answering parliamentary questions Thank you. [[the speaker is warned on time]] 13
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8639	The word is represented by Branislav Borenović, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8640	Thank you. My question to the respected Finance Minister, Mr Bevanda, is about the last decision made by the House of Representatives more than a month ago, which obliges the Council of Ministers to prepare within 30 days a draft law on changes and additions to the Value Added Tax Act, which would reduce the value added tax rate for all services provided in tourism, catering and passenger traffic from 17% to 5%, with a limited duration by the end of 2022. My question is very specific: Where is the law, did the Council of Ministers begin to work on the basis of a decision of the House of Representatives, a legislative body that, by which the Council of Ministers as the executive body of the joint institutions of BiH should carry out certain tasks and my question is whether the law is ready, whether and why it is not proposed at today's House of Representatives session and when it will be referred to parliamentary procedure?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8641	Thank you, counsel. Answer, Minister of Finance and Treasury of BiH, Mr. Bevanda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8642	I'll be brief again, but I think I'll make myself clear. At its 23rd session, held in 23.12.2020, the Council of Ministers and Rules of Procedure discussed the House of Representatives' initiative, which is the subject of this issue, in accordance with the Council of Ministers' Law on the work of the Council of Ministers. As a result, the Council of Ministers has reached its conclusion that the initiative is to be entrusted to the Directorate for Indirect Taxation as a resolutely competent, professionally qualified institution, to prepare appropriate proposals for the Management Board and the Council of Ministers in the context of the proposed initiative. It should be pointed out that the initiative in question is not followed by analytical projections and indicators based on the implementation of the initiative itself, therefore the primary task of the Impaired Taxation Board is to make in the broadest sense detailed analysis, projection of all economic and financial aspects and indicators. To be an up-to-date and appropriate response to today's day, the Management Board of the Implicit Taxation Authority adopted the long-standing Prednart Act on VAT. The Management Board has authorised the Administration to consult, the Management Board will consider the draft law, quite normally reviewed by these consultations and referred it to the Council of Ministers for adoption and I think it is the best and the easiest and easiest way to reach certain changes and additions that time carries and therefore it needs a sufficient number of votes both on the Management Board and on the Council of Ministers and eventually on both homes of Parlametna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8643	Thank you, Minister. Does the representative want to comment? Here you go. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8644	Parliament's decision is very precise, it is the Council of Ministers' obligation to make a legislative decision within 30 days, which is precise, only if we allow here to have some administration or some board of directors or not give Bog some individual annulling Parliament, I will not allow it, and you colleagues, if you will. This is a very simple solution to be addressed by the Council of Ministers, which should be discussed as provided for by the Rules of Procedure in the House of Representatives and, of course, in the House of Peoples, and if there is a majority, this proposal will pass or not. It is a projection that is not at all demanding for this country, collected i.e. the declared revenue is expected by the end of the year, by the end of 2021, around 500 million marks from the accommodation activity, and the preparation and provision of food and drink, which means that the budget deficit would be around 50 million converted marks, less than 1% of the total VAT revenue, not much, and it would mean a lot of these activities, and I expect you to make an urgent decision of the House of Representatives when it comes to reducing the VAT rate from 17% to 5% for the areas of hospitality, tourism and passenger traffic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8645	Thank you, counsel. With this, we have exhausted oral questions and answers. With just one more instance of Agent Enver Bijedić, who appeared to have delivered the question, here we have checked in the service, You have forwarded the question, MP, to the chairman of the Council of Ministers and in your representative's question you stated – I ask that the answer be delivered in writing. In accordance with the business procedure, we forwarded your question 04.01.2021 to the chairman of the Council of Ministers and you will probably receive a written reply. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Here, we've done everything in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it's no problem for you to read your question yet. Here, here's your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8647	Thank you. Thank you for the entertainment, I insist that I ask this question in oral form for the reason of the urgency of resolving this issue. Namely, it is a scandalous decision, the Council of Ministers' proposal on financial assistance to health institutions in BiH. This Decision provides for the Clinical Centre in Banja Luka to receive 4 million marks, the Clinical Centre of Sarajevo 3.5, the Clinical Centre in Mostar 3.5 million, and the University Clinical Center in Tuzla only a million and a half, even the Brcko District gets 500,000 marks, although the patients from Brcko are being treated in Tuzla. Namely, it's all done naturally for the resolution of the consequences of the coronary virus. For this reason, if we were already damaged earlier in the test assignment, that the Tuzlan Clinical Center had received at least these tests, why and by which criteria we were so drastically damaged in the distribution of these revenues, where 15 was almost 300% less compared to, say, the Clinical Centre in Banja Luka, and more than 100% compared to Sarajevo and Mostar, because, in the meantime, by the next session or until the reply of the Council of Ministers, it would not be possible to make that decision at the Council of Ministers, therefore I insisted that I place it this public and that of course the seriousness of the situation be taken, because when the decision is taken then, there will be no time, of course, to discuss it. Thanks again and I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8648	Thank you, counsel. Here's a question and verbally, you'll comment when you get it in writing. And now we're moving on to the agenda. As regards the change of the session's agenda, I would like to mention the following, from the earlier agenda, are downloaded: Point 28. Information on the state of migration in Bosnia and Herzegovina for August 2020 submitted by the BiH Ministry of Security at the request of the Joint Defence and Security Commission for BiH. Point 30. Review of Predrag Kojović's parliamentary initiative, Aida Baručija, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepić and Damir Arnaut, which reads: "It is necessary for the BiH Ministry of Justice and the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs to start the search procedure within ten days of the adoption of this initiative, diplomatic and other appropriate channels, information and documentation from the competent authorities of the United States of America that Nikola Špirić was involved in public corruption and has benefited from it, including the lack of proper benefit during the conduct of public functions and the obstruction of public processes during his term as a member of the Parliamentary House of Representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina" at the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee for the purpose of the proposal. It has been completed: point 6. Proposal for amendments II, III, IV and V. to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: representatives of the SDP Club, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission, which is negative for the second time. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Representative jasmin Emrić, go ahead, MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8649	I thank the Honorable Chairman, warm greeting to all present. I'm surprised that the agenda has been downloaded, as you've met us, the Honorable Chairman, the 28th earlier agenda point, i.e. Information on the situation in the area of migration and asylum. I don't know what the reason was and what the Joint Defence and Security Committee of BiH was run to propose to remove this agenda, but I don't see any reason that today's agenda isn't exactly this information that represents the conclusion of this esteemed 9th month House. We were expecting today, I expected, given the current topic and the problems that are related to migration to BiH, that today this respected 16 House discusses, to be informed, to adopt certain quality conclusions in order to help resolve the migration crisis in BiH, but here is the proposal to remove it from the agenda. In order not to further explain, I suggest that this point be placed on the agenda, i.e. the 20th, earlier the 28th item of the agenda – Information on the state of migration in BiH for August 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8650	Thank you, counsel. Representative Nenad Stevandić, please have a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8651	Well, I'd like to per-member... 71. I would also like the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives to include in the agenda this 15th session a new item of the agenda, which reads – The conclusion that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly is asked by the Director of the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of BiH to apply Article 38 when considering the application for the registration of vaccines against virus coves. The laws on medicines and medical means of BiH. I wrote an explanation so everyone can read, I would just like to tell you briefly that it is a matter of different vaccines, which one of my colleagues mentioned and different cold chains, different types, to say, this, usability and delivery, distribution and that also those currently approved by the World Health Organization and European countries do not have the approval of our Medicines Agency and that it would be necessary to, regardless of this GAVI programme, or the Kovax mechanism suggests the Agency to use Article 38, as it is called, this, and thus, without complete procedure, issue an authorisation for, something similar to the intervention import of medicines as, which happens very often in many health institutions in both entities. Republika Srpska has concluded an agreement with Gamalea – the Russian Institute that some Russian vaccines are distributed in the second half of February, somewhere between 200 and 400,000 depending on the possibility, along with these millions and two hundred doses discussed by the chairman, which are related to the Kovaks mechanism. I would ask you to take this seriously because whoever first starts using vaccines first will solve the costs in health care, the first will solve, let's say, the burden of the system, the great mortality and the first will solve and the business activity, regardless of which vaccine will occur. As a doctor and a longtime doctor, I want to tell you that there are two kinds of basic vaccines, one is related to, to say, what is a long-term rule or experience in the territory of the former Yugoslavia, which are vaccines that are attenuated or vector vaccines that are produced in China, Great Britain and Russia, and that there are also this type of vaccines that are currently more current, i.e. they are related to Pfizer and Moderna. No matter what we are able to get, I think it is necessary for the Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Resources to be able to bring the vaccine that is already being used, to say, throughout the world, whether it is on the territory of Asia or Europe or America, to be respected, to suggest this conclusion, to say, that the Agency does not make, say, another month or two days of delays, which, in my opinion, would have a very bad impact on the citizens, on the economy, on the burden of the health system, and would certainly increase mortality. Thank you very much. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8652	Thank you very much. I don't see any more reports. As for the proposal to supplement the agenda, like this, I will comment, the distinguished representative jasmin Emrić has suggested that we remain a point – Information on the state of migration in BiH, means the applicant of the BiH Ministry of Security. In fact, you have proposed it today at the session, but you have not delivered the material, with the fact that I want to tell you here it is written and it stands out that at the request of the Joint Defence and Security Committee. However, the Defence and Security Committee has failed to comply with this point, so it is in our proposal for the agenda to be removed from today's session, with the fact that there is also a memo from the Ministry of Security which has been written that this information should be updated, i.e. supplemented, so that it should be, at here, the next session and our House of Representatives updated and passed... Well, now I don't know, I don't have it personally, and I don't think a lot of us have a problem even considering it today, but I think that according to the procedure, it would be better to get both on time and up-to-date information and the one who has the opinion of the Defence and Security Committee, so it would be at the next session. So do you accept such an attitude? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8653	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8654	Here you are now, you've got the microphone on.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8655	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. I could not intervene in due time for the reason that I had just begun this session to receive a revised agenda, so I was surprised why this item of the agenda was removed from today’s session. But I cannot understand that there was no time to consider this Information at a session of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security and that no debate on this Information has been concluded. This information is from the ninth month, so from September to September 2020 to January 2021 we don't have a Common Commission position, so this information that was scheduled to be on the agenda today, it's already several months late and it's not in line with what we've been trying to achieve, and that's looking for information in the ninth month for the last eight months of 2020, that we have up-to-date information. Today, information was delivered to us only for August, but with some indicators for the first eight months of 2020. However, given the current situation and all the events, I think we should discuss this problem. So when are we gonna argue? I don't know if the Joint Commission will have any reason again so that after a month of meeting we can again propose to postpone the debate on this or similar information. After all, we seem to be delaying the debate, and the situation is of an urgent nature, we have a very dramatic situation in the UN-San canton, and even in the Sarajevo Canton, we have a very dramatic situation in BiH because of illegal migration. The situation is such that it can no longer wait, it is urgent, migration to BiH is a big problem and they are the biggest problem in the canton that I come from, and that is why I advocate to discuss it so much. Therefore, I ask that this information be held at today's session of the 18th agenda, that the Ministry of Security inform us and that information, information that can be updated, and that we are thus discussing it and making certain conclusions. We can't wait indefinitely, I don't accept it, and I think that we should have responded to our conclusion that was adopted in September of last year, and then we would certainly have more up-to-date information and everything would have been timely than today, today we are late, the institutions of this country do not respond in time and then lead us into some incident situations that we had a few days ago in the Un-San canton. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8656	I'd like to thank the representative. As for the second, second proposal to supplement the agenda, by counsel Stevandić. You have proposed the conclusion that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly asks the Director of the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of BiH to apply Article 38 when considering the application for the registration of the vaccine against the virus. The laws on medicines and medical means of BiH. In fact, you know that we can go business with certain conclusions that are related to certain points of the agenda, here we have a conclusion that does not connect to any point of actually the agenda, so in my opinion or should reshape something, MP, that it is not quite this conclusion, if we go to some kind of initiative then we should again leave you to go to the competent committees, so here, please make a statement about the proposal before we approach the vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8657	I think that regardless of what you said, it's commercially possible to vote this out as a conclusion, and I think that this urgency situation and the state of emergency and everything I said that first starts to vaccinate that first solves both health workers and health costs and great mortality and economy and lockdown, so I don't think that we should now, as we say, look at every point and every letter, I think this is a more important thing than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8658	Thank you. Please be prepared, we will both make a statement on one point and on another point for a proposal to supplement today's agenda. So, please, first of all, let us be clear about the proposal by Representative Jasmin Emrić asking that information on the state of migration to BiH be included on today's session agenda for 2020. Please make a statement. Of the 39 present – for 23, there are no abstentions 16. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I agree that today's agenda of this session included the Information on the state of migration to BiH for 2020, August 2020, because it was based on the material that we received earlier from the BiH Ministry of Security. 19 And now I propose that we make a statement on the proposal of Agent Stevandić to include a point in today's agenda – the conclusion that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives asks the director of the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices for BiH to apply Article 38 when considering the application for a vaccine against the virus. The Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of BiH, "The Official Messenger of BiH", 58/08. Of the 39 present – for 19, against 4 abstentions 16. There is a general, but there is no entity majority in the Federation of BiH, and we will agree afterwards. After joining the vote, I find that the 15th session of the House has its agenda, which you received with a call with a read amendment, which is – Information on the state of migration in BiH for August 2020. Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 14th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH; 2. Comments on questions received; 3. Representatives' request: Predrag Kojović, Aida Baručija, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, Damir Arnaut, Nermin Nikšić, Saša Magazinović, Zukan Helez and the Mladina's Nada for initiating the vote on the mistrust of the BiH Council of Ministers, No: 01-50-1-15-14/20 of 9. 12. 2020; 4. Representatives' request: Mirko Šarović, Dragan Mektić, Mire Pekić, Branislav Borenović, Nermin Nikšić, Zukan Helez, Saša Magazinović, Nada Mladina, Đonlagić Dženan, Zlatan Begić, Enver Bijedić, Vlatko Glavaš, Jasmin Emrić, Predrag Kojović, Aida Baručija, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepić and Damir Arnaut for the start of the vote on the reconstruction of the BiH Council of Ministers (replacement of the BiH Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs), number: 01-50-1-2481/20 of 23. 12. 2020; 5. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law, Proponent: Representative Saša Magazinović, issue: 01-02-1-1769/20 of 4. Nine. 2020. (second reading); 6. Proposal for amendments II, III, IV and V. to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Representatives from the SDP Club of BiH, issue: 01-01-1-2070/20 of 20. Ten. 2020, with the opinion of the Constitutional Commission; 7. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on Predrag Kojović, Aida Baručija, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepić and Damir Arnaut's proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the 14th session of the House of Representatives reads: "It is necessary for the BiH Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to start the search procedure within ten days of the adoption of this initiative, diplomatic and other appropriate channels, information and documentation from the competent authorities of the United States of America that Nikola Spiric was involved in public corruption and achieved the benefits of this initiative during the conduct of public functions and other appropriate channels, information and documentation from the competent authorities of the United States of America that Nikola Špirić was involved in public corruption and achieved the proper benefit of the exercise of public office (Bol) of 28.190-108. Nine. 2020.), number: 01-50-1-15-14/20 of 10. 12. In the United States of America, the United States of America, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, and the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the Kingdom, the Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the Kingdom, the Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, and the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the Kingdom, the Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the Kingdom, the Kingdom, the Kingdom, the European, the United Kingdom, the Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the Kingdom, the Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the Kingdom, the Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the Kingdom, the Kingdom, and the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the Kingdom, the Kingdom, the Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the Kingdom, the Kingdom, the Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the Kingdom, the Kingdom, the Kingdom, the Kingdom, the Kingdom, the Kingdom, the Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the Kingdom, the Kingdom, the Kingdom, the Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the Kingdom, the Kingdom, the Kingdom, the Kingdom, the European, the European, the European, the European, the European, the European, the European, the European, the European, the European, the European, the European, the European, the European, the European, the European, the European, the European, the European, and the European, and the United Kingdom, the European, the European, the European, the European, the United Kingdom, and the United Kingdom, and the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, and the United Kingdom, and the United Kingdom, and the United Kingdom, and the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, and the United Kingdom, and the The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the request of representatives of Saša Magazinović for the examination of the proposal for a law supplementing the 20-income law and fees in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina under emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, number 01-02-1-2144/20 of 10. 12. 2020; 9. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the request of representative Saša Magazinović for the examination of the draft law supplementing the Labour Act in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, number 01-02-1-2145/20 of 10. 12. 2020; 10. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on Agent Denis Zvizdić's request for an examination of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Foreigners' Act under emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure, number 01-02-1-2310/20 of 10. 12. 2020; 11. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on a bill on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, proposed by representatives Saša Magazinović, Damir Arnaut and jasmin Emrić (legal in second reading), No: 01-02-1-2573/17 of 10. 12. 2020; 12. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of Damir Arnaut on the proposal for a law on the completion of the Law on Road Safety in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Proposer: Representative Damir Arnaut, (the emergency procedure law), which reads: "The House of Representatives delivers to the House of Peoples the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of Road Safety of Roads in BiH and proposes that the bill be considered by an urgent legislative procedure." Number: 01-02-1805/20 of 10. 12. 2020; 13. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the Opinion of Representatives: Predrag Kojović, Damir Arnaut, Aida Baručija and Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepić on the discussion of the report on the work of the BiH Attorney's Office for 2019 which reads: "The Law on the Ombudsman has not changed more significantly for many years, and the solutions which have been arranged by the internal organisation no longer fit today, so we propose that within 90 days of the date of adoption of this conclusion, the amendment of the Law on the BiH Ombudsman himself to improve work, and to create assumptions for internal reorganisation." issue: 01-50-15-14/20 (link number: 01,02-50-18-2196/20) of 10. 12. 2020; 14. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the report on the work of the BiH Ombudsman for 2019, number: 01,02-50-18-2196/20 of 10. 12. 2020; 15. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the parliamentary initiative of Damir Arnaut, which "needs the Council of Ministers of BiH to implement all the necessary procedures for the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia within ten days of the adoption of this initiative, with the aim of re-tegorising the border crossing of Gabel Polja for international passenger traffic or its opening for retail traffic, and in any event the opening of that border crossing for the retail traffic of pupils of primary and secondary schools", number: 01-50-1787/20 of 10. 12. 2020; 16. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on Predrag Kojović's parliamentary initiative, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepić, Damir Arnaut and Aida Baručija, which "needs the BiH Council of Ministers to start coordinating within ten days of the adoption of this initiative with the competent bodies of entities and canton with the aim of enabling the study of a national group of subjects who want to do so, enrolling official language names in Bosnia and Herzegovina in all school documents in accordance with the names set out in the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina (Dayton Agreement), as well as the abolition of all other forms of discrimination in primary and secondary schools in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and taking into account the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina", issue: 01-50-1797/20 of 10. 12. 2020; 21 17. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the delegation initiative of Edita Đapo "deleged by the Council of Ministers of BiH to amend Article 12a of the Law on Citizenship, in such a way as not to require the denial of the citizenship of countries that have changed their legislation and allow multiple citizenship (Danish, Norway, Luxembourg, Czech Republic and others) or to conclude an emergency bilateral agreement with these countries", number: 01-50-1934/20 of 10. 12. 2020; 18. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on Denis Zvizdić's parliamentary House of Parliament's initiative "delegates the BiH Council of Ministers to refer within 30 days of the adoption of this initiative and to the parliamentary procedure the Proposal for a Law on how to use and dispose of non-perspective military property, in such a way that the property in question, in the event of an assessment, is not necessary for the implementation of the Constitution, international contract and the law of established competences of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, is allocated to the use and availability of the local self-government unit in whose territory the property is located, exclusively with the aim of protection and property from further destruction and destruction, its reconstruction and reconstruction or the establishment of the site for the ultimate purpose in accordance with the spatial and design of the local self-government document in the territory of the region, i.e. 12. 2020; 19. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on Denis Zvizdić's parliamentary House of Parliament's initiative "delegates the Council of Ministers to prepare and refer to the parliamentary procedure of the revised Proposal for a Law on Electronic Communications and the Proposal for a Law on Electronic Media in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which will be in line with the legal acquis of the European Union and the recommendations of the Innovation, Information Society, Social Policy and Public Health, and with respect to earlier suggestions from the opinion of competent institutions", issue: 01-50-1166/20 of 10. 12. 2020; 20. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on Denis Zvizdić's parliamentary assembly's parliamentary House of BiH's parliamentary assembly "delegates the BiH Council of Ministers to adopt this initiative within 60 days of the date of adoption of this initiative, in accordance with the jurisdiction laid down in Article 9(2) of the Law on Ministrys and other bodies of the administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina ('The Official Messenger of BiH', No. 5/03, 42/03, 26/04, 42/04, 45/06, 88/07, 35/09/59/09, 103/09/87/12, 6/13, 19/16 and 83/17), preparation and in parliamentary procedure of the Proposal for a Framework Law on the Protection of the Environment, Development and Use of Natural Resources of Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue 01-50-1-2170/20 of 10. 12. 2020; 21. The College's report on the efforts to reach agreement on Denis Zvizdić's parliamentary House of Parliamentary Assembly tasked the Council of Ministers of BiH with a view to providing, within six months of the date of adoption of this initiative, the draft Framework Law on the Spatial Plan of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period from 2020 to 2040 in order to establish, at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the long-term foundations of the organisation, arrangements, use and protection of the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina in accordance with its natural, environmental and cultural potentials", issue: 01-50-1-2171/20 of 10. 12. 2020; 22. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on Denis Zvizdić's parliamentary assembly's parliamentary House of BiH's parliamentary assembly "delegates the Council of Ministers to adopt this initiative as soon as possible, not later than 90 days after the 22nd day of adoption of this initiative, in accordance with the Bosnia and Herzegovina Statistics Act ('The Official Messenger of BiH', No. 26/04 and 42/04), preparation and parliamentary procedure of the Proposal for a Law on Census, Households and Apartments in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so that the list, in accordance with international standards, can be implemented by 2023 at the latest," number: 01-50-1-2173/20 of 10. 12. 2020; 23. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on Denis Zvizdić's parliamentary House of Parliamentary Assembly tasked the Council of Ministers of BiH with the preparation of this initiative within 30 days of the date of adoption and the parliamentary procedure of the proposal for a law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's measurement of official time in Bosnia and Herzegovina to implement the obligations under the Bosnia and Herzegovina's 2020 Council of Ministers' Work Programme in time, No 01-50-1-2174/20 of 10. 12. 2020; 24. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the Edita Đapo parliamentary initiative "to bring the Civilian Ministry of BiH into line with the Law on Single Origin Number with Constitutional Court Decision No U 3/11, the Constitution of the Federation of BiH and the Constitution of Canton", No. 01-50-1-2261/20 of 10. 12. 2020; 25. Report on the work of the Management Board of the BiH Export and Credit Agency for 2019, issue: 01,02-16-1-2278/20 of 25. 11. 2020; 26. Report on the reviewed state of financial operations of political parties in 2018, applicant: Central Election Commission of BiH, issue: 01,02-16-1-2293/20 of 27. 11. 2020; 27. Information from the Central Election Commission of BiH on the attempts of electoral fraud through the vote by mail outside Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the measures and plans taken to prevent electoral fraud, Proposer Mirko Šarović, number: 01-50-1-2002/20 of 14. Ten. 2020; 28. Information on the state of migration in Bosnia and Herzegovina for August 2020, applicant: BiH Ministry of Security (realisation of the conclusion of the 12th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, held 15. Nine. Number: 01-50-1- 15-12/17, link: 01-50-1-1749/20 of 10. 12. 2020; 29. Consideration of Damir Arnaut's parliamentary initiative, which "needs the BiH Council of Ministers to implement, within ten days of the date of adoption of this initiative, all the necessary procedures for the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia with the aim of overtegorisation of the border crossing point of Gabel Polja for international passenger traffic or its opening for small-border traffic, and in any case the opening of that border crossing for the retail traffic of primary and secondary schools", issue: 01-50-1-1787/20 of 15. Ten. 2020; 30. Discussing Denis Zvizdić's parliamentary House of BiH's Parliamentary Assembly tasked the Council of Ministers of BiH with agreeing within 30 days of the adoption of this initiative, as the holder and coordinator of the activities, the revised document of socioeconomic reform in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period 2020-2022 and following the Action Plan, taking into account the economic crisis caused by the coronary pandemic (COVID-19) and the necessary austerity measures in the public sector and the measures to help the economy to be taken in the next period with a view to the recovery of Bosnia and Herzegovina's economy", issue: 01-50-1-2161/20 of 5. 11. 2020; 31. Discussing Denis Zvizdić's parliamentary initiative, "the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives tasked the BiH Council of Ministers to adopt the Anti-Corruption Strategy for Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period 2020 as soon as possible, not later than ten days after the adoption of this initiative. – 2024 and following the Action Plan, which is an obligation from the European Commission on the request of Bosnia and Herzegovina for membership in the European Union and the accompanying Analytical Report", No: 01-50-1-2165/20 of 5. 11. 2020; 32. Discussing Denis Zvizdić's parliamentary initiative, "the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly tasks the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare and to refer to the draft law on market surveillance of Bosnia and Herzegovina within 60 days of the date of adoption of this initiative and to the parliamentary procedure in order to bring it into line with the acquis of the European Union, i.e. Regulation No. 765/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 Seven. In 2008, which sets out the requirements for accreditation and market surveillance relating to the placing on the market of different products", number: 01-50-1-2168/20 of 5. 11. 2020; 33. Consideration of Denis Zvizdić's parliamentary initiative "the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly mandates the BiH Council of Ministers to forward, within a short period of time, not later than 30 days from the date of adoption of this initiative, preparation and parliamentary procedure, the Proposal for a Law on the Regulatory of Electricity and Natural Gas, Transfer and Market of Electricity in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in order to implement the obligations of the Third Energy Package from the Energy Community Treaty and the obligations made by the European Commission's Analysis Report of the European Commission on the request of Bosnia and Herzegovina for membership in the European Union", issue: 01-50-1169/20 of 5. 11. 2020; 34. Discussing Denis Zvizdić's parliamentary House of BiH's Parliamentary Assembly tasked the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations with drawing up and delivering within 60 days of the adoption of this initiative to the BiH Council of Ministers for the adoption of the first draft Integrated Energy and Climate Plan of Bosnia and Herzegovina (NECP), which is the obligation of this ministry from the Council of Ministers' Action Plan for the Implementation of Priority from the European Commission's Analytical Report, issue: 01-50-1-2172/20 of 5. 11. 2020; 35. Discussing Denis Zvizdić's parliamentary initiative, "the BiH Parliamentary House of Ministers tasks the BiH Council of Ministers, within 60 days of the adoption of this initiative, to take the decision to adopt the Strategic Document for the Youth Area at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in order to enable the withdrawal of funds from IPA funds in the field of youth, and tasking the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs to take all necessary activities to take place as soon as possible, and not later than 30 days from the day of adoption of this initiative, the Commission for the Co-ordination of Youth Issues in Bosnia and Herzegovina", number: 01-50-1-2175/20 of 5. 11. 2020; 36. Consideration of Nenad Nešić's parliamentary initiative "in charge of the Council of Ministers of BiH to submit within 15 days to the PSBiH House of Representatives information on the measures taken in 2020 to tackle the economic damages caused by the COVID-19 pandemic", issue: 01-50-1-2177/20 of 5. 11. 2020; 37. Consideration of Damir Arnaut's representative initiative "which requires the competent institutions of entities, cantons and municipalities in all parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina to have the streets, squares, parks, schools and other public areas and institutions currently bearing names by persons or organisations who at any time co-operated, belonged to or otherwise acted on the side or in coordination with the occupational Nazi or fascist forces in World War II, or publicly supported or justified them (with a special reference to the names listed in the explanation below), replacements of names of persons from Bosnia and Herzegovina who have been recognised as righteous among the peoples of the Yad Vashhem Centre (the list)", issue: 01-50-1-2281/20 of 26. 11. 2020; 38. Consideration of Šemsudin Mehmedović's parliamentary initiative, which reads: "I am launching an initiative to restart the procedure of public 24 advertising, offers, selection and adoption of the text of Bosnia and Herzegovina's anthem, and finally to resolve this simple and very important issue to the satisfaction of all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina," issue 01-50-1-2306/20 of 30. 11. 2020; 39. A review of Alma Čolo's parliamentary initiative, which reads: "I propose that the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, in accordance with Article 29. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives ('The Official Messenger of BiH', No. 79/14, 81/15, 97/15, 78/19 and 26/20), appoints the Interim Commission for the Construction of the Proposal for a Law on State Property of Bosnia and Herzegovina", number: 01-50-1-2516/20 of 30. 12. 2020; 40. A review of Alma Čolo's parliamentary initiative, which reads: "I propose that the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, in accordance with Article 29. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives ('The Official Messenger of BiH', No. 79/14, 81/15, 97/15, 78/19 and 26/20) appoints the Interim Commission for the Making of Amendments to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in order to comply with the European Court of Human Rights rulings in the cases of Sejdić and Finci, Pilav, Zornić, Šlaku and Pudarić against Bosnia and Herzegovina and the judgments of the Constitutional Court of BiH relating to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law, issue: 01-50-1-2517/20 of 30. 12. 2020; 41. Discussing Denis Zvizdić parliamentary House of BiH's Parliamentary Assembly tasks the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, without delay, to start direct talks on the acquisition of vaccines for the most endangered categories of Bosnia and Herzegovina population with companies that have received the approval of the European Commission for the production and distribution of coronary virus vaccines (COVID-19), given the existence of certain announcements that, for procedural reasons, our accession to the COVID-19 (COVAX) will not bring the expected results, and that we will be among the last Member States to receive the vaccine. At the same time, a 70m-euro package should be activated as soon as possible for early access to coronary vaccines (COVID-19), approved for Western Balkan countries under the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA II).), number: 01-50-1-15-2520/20 of 29. 12. 2020; 42. Granting consent to the ratification of the XI Implementation Agreement. Part of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982, issue: 01,02-21-1-2410/20 of 16. 12. 2020; 43. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Financial Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany for 2014 and 2015 signed in Sarajevo on 3 September 2020 with the exchange of diplomatic notes, No 01,02-21-1-2428/20 of 18 September 2020. 12. 2020; 44. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the construction and establishment of a new common border crossing at the location of Bratunac – Ljubovija, issue: 01,02-21-1-2486/20 of 24. 12. 2020. Moving to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 14th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina You've got the record. 25 Is there any objection to the record? I'm opening a debate. I don't see any reports. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. Comments on answers received to parliamentary questions
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8661	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Given that I was absent from last session, I am not aware of whether any of the colleagues who have submitted a report together with me on the implementation of the Agenda on Migration and Asylum for the period 2016-2020, "To be in charge of the BiH Ministry of Security." Since within 30 days the Council of Ministers delivered a response to this initiative in this response, the Council of Ministers did not realise that our initiative was not implemented, but was only informed that the report on the work of the Coordination Body on Migration and Operational Staff on the issue of migration in BiH was not adopted for 2018 – 2019 in this response, the Council of Ministers also informed us that the report on the work of the Co-ordination Body for 2017 only, i.e. that the Council of Ministers will consider the issue of the same security in the period of migration. But it is not stated here that our initiative will then be realised later, so I call on the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Security to submit this report to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House in September this year 26 with a complete report on the implementation of the Action Plan for the Implementation of the Strategy in the area of migration and asylum for the period 2016-2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8662	Thank you, counsel. Since no more comments have been reported, I am concluding this agenda item. In accordance with Article 26(f) of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Representatives, I shall shorten the debate to five minutes in the remaining points of today's agenda. Moving to point three, Ad. 3. Representatives' request: Predrag Kojović, Aida Baručija, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić, Damir Arnaut, Nermin Nikšić, Saša Magazinović, Zukan Helez and the Mladina's Nada for initiating the vote on the mistrust of the BiH Council of Ministers, No: 01-50-1-15-14/20 of 9. 12. 2020 That request to initiate a vote on the reconstruction of the BiH Council of Ministers concerning the replacement of the entire BiH Council of Ministers pursuant to Rule 153 (4) of the Rules of Procedure was delivered on 09 December 2020. The BiH presidency, the BiH Council of Ministers, MPs at the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I remind you of the provisions of Article 154. The Rules of Procedure, which are prescribed that the motion for a vote on non-confidential and reconstruction of the Council of Ministers be placed on the agenda of the House after 20 days and no later than 30 days from the date of delivery of the BiH Council of Ministers. Now, in accordance with Article 157(1) of the Rules of Procedure, I call on the proposing representative to explain the proposal for the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers. Representative Aida Baruči, here's your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8664	Thank you, Chairman. The motion to initiate a vote on the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers is a necessary political and moral reaction, since, if we have all witnessed their dissatisfaction, which is seen in the months-long non-session of meetings, the ultimate three-way in the performance of the affairs under their jurisdiction, a series of affairs that relate to the electives, or officials in the Council of Ministers of the Crown Party, via the gaffes of Minister Turković, a statement by the Minister of Security, to this latest case of illegal gambling. In addition, we have inadequate reactions, i.e. the response to the challenges caused by the coronary virus pandemic, which is currently a focus on the problem of delaying the purchase of vaccines for the prevention of COVID-19 epidemics which directly disrupts the health and safety of our citizens, while the negative reflection on the economy and all economic parameters is imminent. From this point on, we can conclude that it is the most inefficient Council of Ministers' meeting, and therefore it is the only rational, responsible and moral move to dissipate the current assembly and move towards the formation of the Council of Ministers, which will respond to the mentioned failures and move forward with the resolution of 27 problems, otherwise we will have another difficult situation in all segments of the Council of Ministers' competence, and all this is directly reflected in the lives of our citizens and citizens throughout BiH. We have a really difficult period behind us, and we have a very difficult journey ahead of us and we do not have that luxury to continue with the current practice of not doing the current Council of Ministers' convocation and to stress that this is not about demagogy, politics and all that is respected by those who defend this incompetence or perhaps conscious desire to block, this is about the lives of fellow citizens and fellow citizens, about the need to move things from a dead spot, and it is certainly clear to anyone who analyzes so far the unhappiness and condition, in fact the current mess and the situation in which we are in. When the chairman of the Council of Ministers before us, as I say, presented his exposés, said that the focus of his work would be on the economy, public administration reform, EU integration, rule of law, improving relations within BiH, and those with international financial institutions, the migration crisis, refugees, young women, women, as well as other sensitive categories. We currently have such a burning problem in BiH, one of these is certainly a migrant crisis, and we have no answer from the current Council of Ministers and things have gotten out of hand. Therefore, the only realistic, moral move today is to disband this Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8665	Thank you, counsel. And now, in accordance with Rule 157(2) of the Rules of Procedure, we will call on the representative of the Council of Ministers of BiH to respond and state its position on that proposal, if necessary. Does the chairman of the Council of Ministers want to?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8666	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8667	As you wish, if there is a need.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8668	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8669	Okay, now I'm opening a debate on a proposal for the reconstruction of the BiH Council of Ministers. Prosecutors came forward for the debate, Saša Magazinović, you have your word, here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8670	I'll be very brief. The requirements described in the request are the reasons, and I would like to say on my own personal behalf only a few things about what is holding me back as a representative and what is the relationship of the Council of Ministers, including the chairman of the Council of Ministers in relation to Parliament, but also on the very important issues that burden our society as a whole. So, if you should state three or four reasons for the change of the Council of Ministers, it would definitely be management of these two crises, migrant and 28-related crises with COVID-19. With the migrant crisis, we can see what's going on and I mean, I've said it on several occasions in the media, but I want to say it here too, that the non-cash problem that's going on in the Un-San canton is to address the Krajišnik, give people powers, give them money, and then ask them for responsibility. What has been happening lately is, in fact, let's sort of help explain, therefore, that the management of the migrant crisis is in the hands of the Council of Ministers, and certainly not the unit of local self-government that has no money, no authority to deal with it. So, the migrant crisis as one of the reasons for the Council of Ministers' replacement. On the issues of my colleague Zukan in some ways, I draw an explanation for this second reason, therefore, regarding the whole relationship between the state, state council of ministers when it comes to all that is happening to the crown. From my previous question about the legalization of cannabis for medical purposes, therefore, it's something I really can't understand that in a political sense I can't recognize a topic where I can score and do a good job for the citizens. So the question everyone agrees on, only people don't move their fingers, is that they've formed a committee that they don't know has any authority in advance. I must also point out this as a positive and negative example, on several occasions we are communicating with ministers from the Council of Ministers, with Košarac about the Shop Gore, with Minister Gudeljević, Minister Cikotić, and indeed people responded immediately and it was very correct, but you have, for example, the chairman of the Council of Ministers who, whose kabinet is 16th day is unable to respond whether and when it can take 15 minutes to discuss the legalisation of cannabis for medical purposes. And it's not me, I don't need anything from him, I want to help him be a star in this country that's made it possible to treat a huge number of people who are being treated by drug dealers today, but they're not able to respond for 15 days. Okay, no problems, we're not gonna talk in four eyes, we're gonna talk like this, but we're gonna get to the finish line. Finally, the Council of Ministers' legislative function, namely to be precise, draft laws and send to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Not to enter into the essence of the law that the Council of Ministers sent us, not to enter into the essence of the material they sent, but I will say only two things, that there is no activity of the MPs and the clubs of the MPs, we would not have a session to organise about if we rely on the Council of Ministers and if it is known, and that is, that a number of MPs have proposed more laws than most ministers, if not all of them, then forget all this, so that is the only reason for the Council of Ministers' replacement. Of course, I know it's a political decision and that political parties will take their stand. Also, I've just read this statement from the SDA, I respect, the U.S.A. is now defending the Council of Ministers, so they're being replaced in the hallway, in the defense room. Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays are making a new majority, watching which are variations, Thursdays and Fridays the dams of which are now, I respect everything, but let's talk about this, here you vote, vote against the Council of Ministers' shift, but tell me if I made a mistake in one thing I said. I don't think I'm and that's how it is and that this Council of Ministers' meeting is extraordinary, exceptional. Bad. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8671	Thank you. The word has a representative Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, please. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8672	Thank you, Chairman. I warmly welcome all those present, and at the very beginning, I will say that I am not glad that I was right when we were just over a year ago, when I did not vote for this Council of Ministers. The affairs of which were burdened by a number of proposed members, incompetence and non-compliance with the Law on Gender Equality were my reasons, and I spoke of them in this House at that time. But I think those who voted "yes" at the beginning were also aware of the fact that no progress would be made with these people, but it was another way to weaken the capacity of the BiH state. Only this process has been continued, but here we are trying not to allow you to continue it and that the citizens of BiH are ashamed of what you as representatives of the country's most executive authority are doing, or do not work for BiH and how you represent it. I will, in my presentation, remain at one of the ministries that I am following, and because of the fact that I am a graduate lawyer, because of the fact that I am a member of the Commission for, the Interim Investigation Commission for the Study of Justice, which is the Ministry of Justice, before I consider it one of the key ministries in these reform processes, which are waiting for us, although according to the exposé of the then, therefore, the mandate of the Council of Ministers, which we have heard here, we should already be, uh, at least candidates, if not in the EU after the promises we have heard at the time. So, when it comes to the Ministry of Justice, I mean what amazes me, although it is always an excuse that it is a political function, is that it is run by a Latin language professor and already in my second term, which is completely inappropriately important and the role of this ministry, which it should have in the reform process. I simply must say that this ministry does not interfere with its work, does not refer to the laws in the parliamentary procedure and does nothing to improve the legal system in BiH. Of course, there have been several reports of the international institutions about the judiciary and its shortcomings, and they all agree that we are far from the rule of law. Strangely, the minister of justice feels no responsibility for this issue and finds reasons why something is not possible. Our laws wander from one body to another, retreat for years, we don't know where, or where, just don't come to Parliament. The Law on Public Procurement, the Law on the Protection of Personal Data, the Law on VSTV is just some of them, which, therefore, has been in this impasse of parliamentary proceedings to the wolf for years from two to more. Also, this ministry has received an opinion from the BiH Institution's Audit Office with a reserve with an emphasis on the case and the minister has been heard by the Budget and Finance Commission and I just have to say that it has shown very bold and arrogant behaviour in terms of a general challenge to the authority of the Audit Office, therefore, that it is doing its job. So, instead of being an example of respect for the law to other ministries, and I stress that this minister is already leading in the second term, abuses are being committed in the process of hiring civil servants, civil servants and deputies have not been evaluated, no handovers and recapitulation has been carried out after the work of the state prison, given that the project until then was conducted by the Ministry and so on. We are also constantly getting justifications in the slow work of this ministry, so here is the pandemic of the Coronavirus why we haven't received for a year in a paraliamentary procedure, including the amendment of the Labour Act in BiH institutions, which, for which the initiative was adopted, so as I said more than a year ago. And in one word, I must say, this Ministry has not responded to the task at all, and this is an area that is one of the most important in our reform processes. I decided to talk about this ministry, and hopefully because of, therefore, the short time for discussion, and here I hope that the discussions of other colleagues will include other ministries. I'd just like to say more, since we've already listened to 30 statements from political leaders in the media, who say they won't support this and that it will, somewhere, be done in the spring, etc. That they will then bear responsibility for the continuation of this agony and the unhappiness of the Council of Ministers' work. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8673	Thank you, counsel. The word has a representative, Edita Đapo, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8674	Thank you, esteemed chairman. My respects to you, co-chairs, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, members of the Council of Ministers, guests who follow this session and of course to the media and citizens who follow us through small screens. As representative of the Alliance for a Better Future, I would like to show my dissatisfaction, but I would also like to say that if, dissatisfaction with the citizens of BiH is particularly the voter of the Alliance for a Better Future with the unhappiness and inactivity of this council of ministers' call. I will look at three strategic issues, one of the supplies of vaccines that we were talking about today, is a strategic issue of national interest for all BiH citizens, and primarily for doctors and medics, who have been on the front line here for eight or nine months since this pandemic started, but also a strategic issue for older citizens, i.e. pensioners who, because of the fear of coronaryvirus, are sitting in their homes to avoid being infected and are deprived of a normal life worthy of man. The countries in the environment started with vaccinations and given the fact that about 40 people die daily in BiH as a result of the coronary virus, if this is multiplied by weeks or months rightly, we can say that the unhappiness of members of the Council of Ministers is causing and that they will be responsible for all future lost lives due to the coronarys. The second question I want to look at is economic measures. In fact, the Council of Ministers is late in taking over the loans and donations needed to fight the coronary virus, thus jeopardising lower levels of government and the lives of citizens. Also, since the start of the pandemic this Parliament and MPs have invested a number of initiatives, I will just remind myself of some, that is, the initiative to move VAT payments, then the PDP's initiative to reduce VAT on tourism and hospitality sectors modelled by Germany, the non-payment initiative or not to charge excise duties for disinfectants, because indeed in this pandemic, where businessmen ask to keep their workers in jobs it is not necessary to collect excise duties, keep them for a few months in the Directorate for indirect taxation, and then pay them back, it is necessary for businesses to have that money, to invest and to keep workers in jobs. So, the Council of Ministers did not respond to any of these economic measures, even though the MPs and this Parliament, did they point to what they should do. And the third crisis was, of course, the migrant crisis, which this Parliament debated on many occasions, even held special sessions, a crisis that represents one of the biggest security issues and the crisis for which President Radončić, while acting as Minister of Security, gave very simple and applicable solutions, in order to bring about quite a number of positive results, which is the deportation of illegal migrants to countries of origin. Because I am sure that if one or two planes took off from Sarajevo Airport, that BiH would not be on the route of arrival and the hopes of migrants that it would cross over to the EU. So, the migrant crisis is something that both the authorities and the citizens of the UN-Sancanton and the Sarajevo Canton face. It is 31 that causes fear among citizens and I think it is high time that the Council of Ministers, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, together with the Minister of Security, took all possible action to resolve this issue. I will today support the Council of Ministers' shift in the hope that we will have a better and more effective Council of Ministers in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8675	Thank you. Representative Zukan Helez's hearing, here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8676	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Of course, I'm one of the signatories for the Council of Ministers' replacement initiative. At the beginning of the moment, I'd like to say that, here, I'm inviting any of the ministers to tell us what he's done in this meeting over the past year. I, the man who actively deals with politics, I follow all the political events, I'm an agent in this House, believe that I half the ministers don't know, I don't know what they're called, when I read some interview about what they did in one of the media. You simply can't know these people from the moment most of them became members of the Council of Ministers no longer see each other, are locked up in their cabinets and, of course, their effect is very, very modest. The fact that we have so far received five laws or amendments to the laws of petty intervention tells us that this is the Council of Ministers of the Third to leave. There are three to four times as many draft laws by MPs as by the Council or the Council of Ministers. If we start from the budget, means established practice as if the budget had to be adopted in the coming year, the Council of Ministers fully relaxes in the new year, although it should be adopted by law before, uh, the new year before the beginning of next year. My colleagues talked about migrants, about the pandemic, I came to the conclusion that this Council of Ministers does not create a political environment or business environment in BiH. They simply react to the phenomena and processes and partly under pressure from the media, the public, the NGO sector, opposition representatives, such as the case of migrants, then reacts either to an individual or to a single minister, and yet not completely, a complete council of ministers' assembly. This Council of Ministers is also burdened with corruption, so here I am free to say publicly even to the extent that some kind of measure, whether, by the love affairs of certain ministers, where, afterwards, even those news in public, even pictures, the statement of family members, is quite logical whether the minister resigns. But that's a thought noun with us, that goes, uh, on. Nepotism, one of the ministers or one of the ministers within its ministry, hired a brother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, and these are facts, whether there is greater nepotism, whether there is a larger example of non-poustic behaviour. When we were as a commission visiting the Directorate of Direct Taxation, 700 million are collecting taxes less per year or 14% compared to the same period of the previous year. However, no one here, although we had the opposition's initiative to lift the pause, to reduce the reception of MPs, some more bans to abolish, no one, anything, all neat, all is neatly going pay as if the Council of Ministers had no contact with the outside world. Now look here you have a statement today from the SDA, which is very strange to me, until two days ago they were president on the New Year's press, it seems to me it was a New Year's press, says this Council of Ministers is not working well, it's weakly representing the state, etc. that they are for the shift, even when individual MPs from the House of Peoples threaten to do so, then the president of the SDA will be replaced as the chairman or chairman of the House of Peoples. And suddenly the position of the SDA changes, and they say to God, if this meeting of the Council of Ministers were to change, so that it would not work, and we all know in this room, 32 and all those involved in this business, we know that the Council of Ministers is acting on its duty as long as the new Council is not appointed and even under shift. So that's not an argument, and the real reason is and I repeat for who knows which time, that the SDA gave in the House of Peoples of the Fourth Delegates at the SNSD Club and thus blocked all the processes and they know if it comes to the House of Peoples that all the blame will be on them, because they gave HDZ to the fourth and SNSD the fourth and it has to be repeated over and over again, and that's the real face of the SDA, in public favour of better BiH, that the Council of Ministers is doing better, and they knew, they were long-standing representatives who voted there, they knew it would be a blockade of the BiH state. And today some, some cheap political statements like that would change, and they know they can't go to the House of Peoples because of their affairs with SNSD and HDZ, and now they're trying to save this Council of Ministers meeting. I'd like to do it today. If any of the members of the Council of Ministers listed what they did for this year, this does not look like the BiH government [[the speaker is warned on time]] These people can't represent the BiH state, this is the worst call to the Council of Ministers' results in the post-war period. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Since time is up, I have had a lot more, of course I will vote for the replacement of this Council of Ministers just for reasons, not for politics, for political reasons, for those, for those, only because they are very modest almost no results of this Council of Ministers' summonment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8677	Thank you. Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović's hearing, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8678	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, we appointed this Council of Ministers assembly 13 months ago on the basis of a political platform around which the current majority, called defence reform, gathered. We had the alignment of this document for almost a year, strong support from the international community, and after a year we agreed on this act on the basis of which the parliamentary majority was formed and we received the Council of Ministers. The implementation of the platform is under way and is going in a positive direction regardless of the obstructions that arise from certain political factors, it is to the satisfaction of all BiH citizens. It was formally done by the Council of Ministers, held meetings, adopted various acts, decisions, conclusions and possible laws, by exactly four, I think, four legislative solutions that are not their work but the work of the previous Council of Ministers. It was meeting over the crown more virtually than physically. According to the results of the Council of Ministers' work, as a collective body, I fully argue that it cannot have the support of us MPs, and that it has not responded to the challenges that have been faced with them, in whatever area you wish to confirm it duly, except in the area of defence based on the realization of the platform I have told you about. The exposés of the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, which we listened to here in this House 13 months ago, promised much, encouraged BiH's progress. After the blockades and impasses that lasted more than a year, but I was skeptical that the chairman of the Council of Ministers would have the freedom to realize everything he had promised and unfortunately I was right. Personally esteeming the work of individual ministers, I am of the opinion that in the Council of Ministers we have very competent and responsible officials, some ministers, but there are others who all seem to block the Euro-Atlantic 33rd time BiH and its progress at all. We are ahead of us to decide whether to support the shift initiative or be against and we have no choice whether to choose a good or bad solution, but what is less bad for BiH. Here I ask the applicants – is there a new parliamentary majority that would take responsibility for managing the processes in BiH, and is there a political platform based on which a new parliamentary majority will be formed and based on which BiH will function at all? We need to know such information as responsible representatives, because we represent citizens, but also the public, here are the first to be tested in the formation of the Federation government and make it a political, political capital that will be elected in 2022. Is there an analysis of the consequences of a possible decision to replace the Council of Ministers, what will we get afterwards, whether the new political crisis and instability in BiH or whether the initiative is pre-declarated and would be a political move to entertain the public and collect petty political points and possibly politically position itself for the next general elections? Whether procedures were being carried out until the end, or only to be satisfied with the Council of Ministers' replacement decision in the House of Representatives, and thus the ball was transferred, as one of my previous speakers spoke, to someone else. I think if there were no serious analysis then it would be, then it would result in a big, very big political damage to BiH – are we aware of that and are we responsible if we challenge it? To conclude, the Council of Ministers did not do as we expected in the BiH House of Representatives and citizens, but we cannot allow the generation of chaos and total political instability and the re-blocking of the Euro-Atlantic route of BiH. So our decision today is very important and responsible, and that is how we treat it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8679	Thank you. Representative Adil Osmanović, you have the word representative. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] And the correction of the wrong quote, Zukan Helez, I'm sorry. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8681	Thank you, Chairman. Look, counterpart Mehmedović said at the beginning of the discussion that as it goes, it goes, uh, in the right direction of the Council of Ministers' work, I mean paraphrasing, I can't quote, but mostly here as if something was going and going. I will remind you that of the 14 priorities, where EU representatives beg us daily, I do not know how to open any media, to read, to listen, to watch, without people begging, do 14 priorities that are not demanding. Just part, one small part of one of these priorities has been made and how long it will take us to get to that EU if within a year, only part of one priority of those 14 priorities we have made and I don't know if there is any major blockade and whether there can be a bigger blockade than this one, this Council of Ministers' dissatisfaction. We just have it on paper, colleague Mehmedović, and I really don't know what would have caused it, and this Council of Ministers remains to work until it is appointed new. And no one is obliged by the opposition in this House to say who would make a new majority, who would be ministers, and that 34 would work to get there, but I repeat, if there were no major blockades of this Council of Ministers and here we have it, you said, in the Federation Parliament, that same or similar coalition. So it's been these blockades for years when it comes to this Council of Ministers. If he could do better to his colleague Mehmedović, you're a witness, you were a representative in the past term and You know, that Council of Ministers meeting worked so much better, it had a far greater pass. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Not to point out now or not to bid on some names of some MPs who don't come from my party, but you have to confess that they're people. far, far better worked, actually not much better than this Council of Ministers' convocation. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8682	Šemsudin Mehmedović, correcting the wrong allegations, here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8683	My correction to the wrong allegation refers to the correction of my colleague Zukan Helez. In fact, I have not said in any word that this Council of Ministers has worked well, in any word, on the contrary, I have said that this Council of Ministers as a collective body has not met the expectations of neither the citizens nor us MPs at the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. But what I said was done, so we have progress in the implementation of the defence reform platform, we have progress, and that is evident, it cannot be challenged, but the Council of Ministers has not done what they were expected to do, and not even close to what the Council of Ministers promised us in its exposé. So this isn't what Mr. Helez was talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8684	Thank you. Representative Adil Osmanović's hearing, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8685	Thank you, Chairman. We will soon have the opportunity to discuss the report on the work of the Council of Ministers for 2020, but this point of today's agenda - The vote of mistrust to the Council of Ministers is an opportunity to make a briefer reference to the work of the Council of Ministers in 2020. In order to successfully discuss the work of the Council of Ministers for 2020, I believe it is necessary to make one comparison or measurement with the work of the Council of Ministers for 2015, headed by Mr Denis Zvizdić. The Council of Ministers held a total of 57 sessions during 2015, set out 30 draft laws, nine important strategies, 133 proposals on ratification of international contracts, etc. In July 2015, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement entered into force, confirming BiH's status as a potential candidate for membership. In July 2015, an economic reform was adopted, the 2015 – 2018 Reform Agenda defining a number of reform measures in the areas of public finances, business climate, labour markets, social protection reform, etc. Of course, those adopted laws and strategies and many other decisions have also started to deliver positive results, the labour market continued to increase the number of persons employed, increased physical volume of industrial production, increased gross revenues from indirect taxes, etc. In February 2016, BiH submitted its application for EU membership because it became credible, in February 2018, submitted a reply to the European Commission questionnaire, and in May 2019, the European Commission adopted a Opinion on BiH's request for 35 EU membership and cited 14 priorities in which BiH must make progress. This is something I had a need to point out, to say in what situation and position we left a new Council of Ministers meeting to pass certain laws that will be reform, socio-economic and social in order to address the daily problems of citizens in BiH. If we look at the work of the current Council of Ministers' Assembly, we will see that they held 43 sessions, of which 28 telephones, adopted, as my predecessors said, four drafts, four draft laws, four strategies, etc. It's very small, I agree with all those who said it was really very small and inadmissible. What I must point out, which is that I still remember the words of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers who said here for a little more than a year exactly in his exhibition, I quote - more than one year after BiH's election failed to form power, and this is a commitment for all of us to do the utmost in the next period to try to make up for the time that has been missed over the past year, the accelerated adoption of reform laws so that BiH can start negotiations on EU accession. And whatever this was in a certain way and a criticism to the Council of Ministers in 2015-2020, I really accepted the end of the benevolent, extremely serious and hoped that the actual Council of Ministers would work in that direction, but we saw four drafts of the law, and I repeat, it is very little and really inadmissible. What we expected, and this is that the current Council of Ministers' Assembly will primarily work on 14 priorities set before it by the European Commission, that it will very quickly adopt the draft law on VSTV, the draft law on courts, the draft law on conflict of interest and the draft law on public procurement, which we have already proposed here by individual MPs. I don't see any reason why the current Council of Ministers' meeting wasn't moving in that direction. What disappoints me and what I'm really disappointed with, I couldn't see what the Council of Ministers will do on the agenda of European integration, this is one of the worrying things. I think the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Tegeltija, has missed the opportunity to present himself to the public, as well as to the international community, so to those who are interested partners in the European integration process, as a political figure, as someone who will lead this process. kolega Tegelti, we know each other very well, I know what your abilities are, and I know how dedicated you have worked as finance minister in the government of the Republika Srpska entity. If you had invested your energy in the work of the Council of Ministers chairman far away, you would have been far better at results. [[the speaker is warned on time]] But what's the problem? The problem is politics policies that do not want to see BiH as a European state, a functional state which you, unfortunately, have agreed to. [[Gorenik is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8686	Thank you. Representative Dženan Đonlagić, here you are, MP. And in the meantime, we have a correction to the wrong assumption, I'm sorry. Dragan Mektić, here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8687	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome all my colleagues and colleagues and I would like to replicate this discussion of my esteemed colleague Adil Osmanović. 36 Such a salvo of negative words, so much criticism at all and all that he did and did this council of ministers' assembly, I don't believe we'll hear from anyone for a long time. And just to correct you and those four laws you mention are not laws, but they are amendments and additions to the law of the previous Council of Ministers, so they have no laws. But let's say now that it doesn't matter, but in such a way as you said it in a negative context about the current, that is, the work of this Council of Ministers in this term, and support this Council of Ministers, if you really need to have, uh, no need, no character. That's what I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8688	Representative Adil Osmanović, correction of the wrong allegations, you have the word representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8689	What is the decision of Parliament's life and way of discussion is criticism and reasoned criticism from which no one can run, no position, no opposition. I said we'd have a chance to discuss the report on the work of the Council of Ministers for 2020, I'll say the same, but the question is, colleague Mektić, what's the alternative. My colleague Mehmedović said, who is the new parliamentary majority with which we can appoint a Council of Ministers that will be more functional, stronger and stronger. It is up to us, at the SDA MPs' club, to criticise, first of all, the Council of Ministers' chairman, whether he is giving a tone of work to the Council of Ministers, he is giving a tact and a pace of faster or slower work to the Council of Ministers, and we will ask him, as has already been said, half this year to move things forward and this is the first opportunity to talk here and look back on the criticism about the work of the Council of Ministers, which is why we are discussing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8690	Representative Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegation, here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8691	Of course, I will look at all the details of the Council of Ministers' shift and this initiative during the discussion, but this is about correcting the wrong allegations. So I can't believe Mr Adil Osmanović just now praised Mr Tegelti for his work as Republika Srpska's finance minister. He performed the post from 2010 to 2018 and the entity is now in charge of over six billion marks, his mandate marked the crisis in Bobar Bank, Balkan Investment Bank, Bank of Serbia, which failed, problems at the Birac clay Birač“ etc. etc. You now represent this man here as an expert. I think who, whom you consider BiH citizens, you represent that after two and a half years we sent answers to the questionnaire as a success, countries in the region should have averaged between two and six months, etc. etc. So, this one, this one is really very dangerous and shows which standards you operate on, then Fadil Novalić is also a good prime minister for you. Now it's much clearer to me, so where do you base these standards, if Mr. Tegeltija is for you, as you said, is the Fitter, a very successful finance minister, well, his project was successful in the RS, and here we see where he's going and, at the state level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8692	Representative Dragan Mektić, correction of the wrong allegations, please welcome MP. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8693	kolega. Osmanović, with so much sensitivity and feelings, speak to this current Council of Ministers' Assembly, so he says what we're going to do next, so it's probably some democratic legality if someone doesn't do good to be, to be replaced, at least that there's any sense of responsibility for the citizens of all BiH, they should go alone, they should go alone. But when you are so sensitive and sensitive to them that the other side you do not see where the citizens of BiH are now, so put that feeling on them and put it on, measure the situation in which the citizens of BiH are, unemployment, general poverty, the departure of young people from the country, misery and misery. How it doesn't touch you at all, so that you can figure out what's in your way or you can't appeal to them, call and say that someone can and that you know that they can, and that they won't, or this other side here is in, the citizens of BiH that they're in. So what you're waiting for is a report, so the report won't come to the second half of next year, so if this is all we need to endure until then and who's satisfied in this country with the Council of Ministers, except as far as I can tell here, that you're satisfied, I mean the SDA Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8694	Representative Adil Osmanović, correction of the wrong allegations, you have the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8695	Not only my colleagues Arnaut, I did not speak at all about the quality of the success of Mr Tegeltija's work, but I said, I was talking about the energy investment, the effort, the effort in his work. We have a problem here that has slowed the work of the Council of Ministers, which the things that matter, which I have said, are not on the agenda, we ask the Council of Ministers to put things that are important, that citizens are asking us to do and that the European Commission is asking them to be put on the agenda. And about what and how he did for eight or ten years, here's what you said yourself, I'm not going in there.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8696	Representative Branislav Borenović, correction of the wrong allegations, you have the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8697	Oh, I'm gonna use these minutes, two, not to answer for a discussion. Here it is clear, the cards are fully open and a clear strategy of the ruling coalition, which is primarily composed of three political parties, which have a majority in both parliament homes, from HDZ, SNSD and SDA. Your strategy is not to work, your strategy is to spend four years in these kind of blockades, tensions, blackmails, threats and, of course, to suffer everyone wherever they live in any part of this country, Republika Srpska, Federation, Brcko, BiH, whatever you want to call it, it is clear that after the year when there should have been the most activity of one executive structure and one serious country there was no matter at all, and they are right colleagues who say what you have done specifically on the economy, on health challenges, on the migration crisis, coordination that should be the essence of the work of the Council of Ministers. Believe me, here I have a feeling of nothing, and you don't even meet the decisions of this House, which makes certain initiatives, which are what they are, they are binding for you, you don't make and you don't file the laws that should be done in a parliamentary democracy. I think that and I want to be brutally honest, there will be no progress either now or in the next few years, because it is your decision, but behind that decision you stand as three key political parties 38 and carry all the responsibility for the situation in the country where we are. And don't be hypocritical and don't hide behind something where there's absolutely no reason, because you chose one another in the House of Nations. and here as a parliamentary majority and things are completely clear you carry full responsibility [[the speaker is warned on time]] the state of the country where we are. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8698	We're going back to the debate, representative Dženan Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8699	I thank the chairman. The BiH Council of Ministers must and should do better than the times behind us. It should be said that within the BiH Council of Ministers there are ministries and ministers who are more visible than others and who do well in the areas for which they are in charge. Here, among others, I want to give a positive example of the BiH Ministry of Defence, only in the last few days concrete actions in co-ordination with the BiH Presidency and the Armed Forces have saved the country's face and image to a good degree regarding the escalation of the migrant crisis in the centre of Lipa in the UN-San canton. Likewise, those who propose such an initiative, of course, have a business right to do so, but it should also be said that they do not have parliamentary capacity to bring the reconstruction of the BiH Council of Ministers to an end and that is the fact. Finally, there are also negative political implications for state institutions if this passes at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. All know that the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers must also go to the House of Peoples of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for differences from its appointment, which ends at the House of Representatives. The current assembly and the structure of clubs in the House of Nations do not give us confidence if the House of Representatives would make such a decision and if the Council of Ministers and of course certain ministers and ministries would go to the House of Peoples in what political context and what political implications would end this episode. Of course, this structure and the current assembly of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is the result of what happened after the implementation of the 2018 election results, but does not mean, I stress, does not mean that this composition of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH will remain in this assembly until the next elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8700	Representative Saša Magazinović, correction of the wrong allegation, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8701	So, I think that because of us here, and also because of the public, we don't need to speak in code. A colleague, Đonlagić, has just announced that the presidency will disband the House of Peoples, if I understand correctly, by the end of the term. Well, it would be good if we had information about what and how it's going to happen, here I am, let's say, supporting it, just not speaking in code, because the halls are talking about how the Presidency is going to make that decision, disband the House of People, when there's a new majority here in the National Assembly, so it's done here, to change. Everything's great, the plan is great, just let me speak openly about it, not in gloves or let the man explain it to us, because if we here in Parliament need to communicate in this way, so imagine the confusion in the public. Here's what I support. I don't know if we should vote for him, but let's just talk about it openly. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8702	Representative Dženan Đonlagić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8703	You see, therefore, it is not true that I said it would come to this and it is not my place to say it, these are the powers of the BiH Presidency and these are the decisions they make, there is a constitutional basis for such a thing and that will ultimately be the decision of the BiH Presidency, not the House of Representatives and us MPs here. So, it's not about any encryption, I said there's such a possibility and there is, of course, how we're going to talk and how we're going to communicate, colleague Magazinović, so you're not going to tell us if I'm going to speak in code or not. So, I'll say it the way I want to talk. So, I didn't say it was going to happen, but there's a possibility, and we all here know there's this possibility, but that decision isn't going to be made here at the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8704	Representative Saša Magazinović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8705	A colleague, Đonlagić, or get ready when you talk or don't talk, I didn't say. So, you said, you still used the word “I emphasize, ” so you emphasized it. So listen, so listen to what you said. Of course I won't tell you, but it's fair to the public to say what you're talking about, so it's fair. You choose to run another kind of policy, it's your right, but it's fair to the public and tell us here, so that we know, and that's not how I stress, I do this, something as mystic, and we all know what it's all about, but say it, tell you and my support is, once again, to do it. Of course, you will bear the responsibility of that move, the possible consequences and everything else, but I support you, just let us speak a little more openly, so in this country everyone is packing something, something, there's no reason.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8706	Representative Zlatan Begić, correction of the wrong allegations, you have the word representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8707	I thank the esteemed chairman. So, I don't know what to say and why we're here insisting, say, say, say, say, say, do we have the right to answer the word here? I will ask the head of the Democratic Front Club in the House of Representatives to call on his colleague Magazinović for the second time at the DF Club session, and smart and sharit is enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8708	Representative jasmin Emrić's debate, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8709	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I support this initiative and the requirement to vote for non-trust with the current Council of Ministers' meeting, because I think this is a good tool for us MPs who are not satisfied with the work of the current Council of Ministers' meeting to tell the public that we are not satisfied, because the public often expects answers from us and thinks that we are involved in the sleeping of the authorities and institutions of the BiH state. We know, we are witnessing, that in the last year, which is because of the pandemic of the coronaryvirus, which because of the failure of the Council of Ministers, all the institutions of the BiH state are deadened as if asleep, as if having a winter dream, such a feeling is that BiH citizens are asking us to be more active and ask us why you do not replace those who do not work, why don't you replace those who are irresponsible and why you are not clearer and louder. So this is a convenient opportunity for me to also execute the request of the citizens of the UN-San canton to vote on the non-confidential assembly of the Council of Ministers, because the citizens of the UN-San canton are, unfortunately, four years burdened with the gravity of the migrant crisis, which is becoming more difficult and more difficult every day because of non-coordination, the lack of the current Council of Ministers' call on the Council of Ministers and the institutions and bodies of the BiH state, who do not have the necessary sensitivity to feel the lives of citizens who watch daily humanitarian disasters. It is a fresh memory of all of us for those pictures that were taken a few days ago, but still present today in the Unsko-San canton in the tent settlement of Lipa, near the town of Bihaća. And everyone in some way attributes responsibility and wants to transfer guilt and part of responsibility to the citizens of the Unsanican Canton that raises their voice against unhappiness. In the spring of 2018, the citizens of Unsko-San canton accepted migrants, and the first were agreed to establish temporary reception centres, because we thought it was our obligation, because we feel compassion for migrants, because we have empathy for them, we share their suffering and we try to make their way easier which, unfortunately, there is no hope, nor seems to be happy ending in view of geostrategic policy and global migration policy in the world and the EU. We expected that the BiH authorities would give more concrete solutions, we expected that the temporary centres would be really temporary, and that control would be established, but unfortunately that did not happen. On the contrary, the current Council of Ministers' meeting takes place in a different way to treat the citizens of this country and only to the authorities of the UN-Sancanton, only the authorities of the Un-Sancan Canton and the city of Bihac explicitly call for their conclusion, which they adopted at a telephone session in 31.12.2020, to accept migrants and to place them from Lipa in the Bureau. And why did the Council of Ministers, if it treats all BiH citizens equally, not invite both entities and all cantons and all BiH cities and municipalities to accept migrants? No, they just explicitly, explicitly invite those who can't take that weight anymore. And I am therefore happy to be able to convey the indignation of citizens who have been protesting more than a hundred days in front of the Biro business facility, who have been guarding the Bureau since the return of migrants, because this is the space and location where the crises have been generated, where criminal and criminal acts have been generated and where the security and health- epidemiological situation has been threatened. the city of Bihaqa and the Unsko-San canton. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I therefore propose a conclusion The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is requesting that the BiH Council of Ministers draw an emergency conclusion at the first next session, which was adopted at an emergency phone session on 31.12.2020, which explicitly calls on the authorities of UN-San Canton and the city of Bihac to respect the cited [[the speaker is warned on time]] and without delay, the reception and accommodation of migrants at the location of Bira. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8710	Representative Damir Arnaut's hearing, please. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8711	Thank you. So BiH has 14 criteria ahead of it to meet before it gets candidate status in general for EU membership. We have been waiting for six years, and here it will be six years in February since the application for EU membership was submitted, in Brussels with a lot of euphoria, etc. And it's an inadmissible long period. And the very fact that the foreign minister has never come to this House or to this House since she was appointed means since the day she was appointed has never appeared here before us, and we have 14 criteria of the European Commission, the fact itself shows you how much this Council of Ministers is, that is, the resolution that is most responsible for relations with abroad, how interested in BiH is in entering the European Union, or for meeting these criteria, etc. And we haven't, like, for ten months now, been able to use that excuse that foreign ministers often use, that they're always on their way, etc. No one travels people, she's in Sarajevo, she's 500, 600 meters from here, she's never shown up here since the day her appointment was confirmed. According to comments from both authorities and opposition during oral issues earlier, it is clear that both the government and the opposition are embellished by the Council of Ministers' dissent, and that the Council of Ministers' shift should go through today, because I simply don't see how Mr. Osmanović or Mrs. Čolo or here Mr. Bijedić can at all justify a voice to possibly leave this Council of Ministers after they have just collapsed on them because of their unhappiness. So these two absolutely don't go together. I need to correct Mr. Helez, not three to four times, it's no longer MPs and delegates have proposed three to four times more laws than the Council of Ministers but even seven times. So this Council of Ministers has proposed four bill proposals in more than a year, and MPs and delegates 28, 28-4. Now you see when we enter into the essence of these bill proposals, because that, even that small number, gives the wrong picture. One bill of law, a warm meal for judges and prosecutors, that imposed a verdict... the Constitutional Court's decision, three members of that bill one page, that's one. The other of those four, the Code of Violations of Five Members, again one page. Third, court fees six members, two pages. These are all amendments and additions, these are not how they are, is it, how they should come from the Council of Ministers of Real Laws, full of laws, definitely not something that goes towards meeting any of these 14 criteria. And now only one of those full laws is these extraordinary measures in the judiciary. However, it passed here in the House of Representatives thanks to the opposition, the SNSD was against, and given that, and given that Mr. Izetbegović gave Mr. Dodik a control package in the House of Peoples, that four delegates, it seems to remain on these three laws of 14 members and four pages, 14 members and four pages are the result of the Council of Ministers' work for more than a year, and that is enough of itself to obtain the resignation of the Council of Ministers, not that we are at all discussing their shift. Because these data simply cannot lead BiH to the EU. Also, this approach to work by the Council of Ministers sends a negative message to the European Commission that not only are we not ready, but that we do not have a wish or will to move forward to the EU, and therefore the act of adopting this initiative today would have shown the EU, has sent a message that at least someone in this country is serious about wanting us to find ourselves in this exclusive club, because this composition, according to all of these statistics, which I have just said, is obviously not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8712	Representative Mirko Šarović's debate, please welcome MP. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8713	Thank you. Most of what I was about to say was respected colleague Adil Osmanović, but also Mr Mehmedović and, but I think it's important that what they said and some things I can say, let me repeat and say that SDS-PDP-DNS is not the initiator of this shift, but it has joined and there is more, I would say, different reasons why we and some other fellow MPs have decided to be part of this initiative, but one is common, and this is the poor work of this Council of Ministers and I think that there is certainly no worse, worse executive authorities in the region, and I think that from the first call to this last one is probably no set up, and most of them have been criticised for these reasons always and in this Parliament, this one has certainly not appeared and many facts and data have been presented, it can be really long and all this is true for stopping the European path of BiH, to stop a single project that has been met with the new institutions and 198 that the legislation, which has been calculated by the reformation of 19. The previous Council of Ministers' meeting, not just past, would have said safely and passed and I don't think the rapper must be just this convocation before this, was on average preparing and sending for each session at least as many laws as we have received from this Council of Ministers' call for these 13 months' work. I think it's one general paleness, ineffectiveness, incompetence, honor and some members who have expressed certain enthusiasm and competence, but they have drowned in the entire assembly of this Council of Ministers. So, that's one feature of the executive government, I think that every day is precious if we see the back of this executive government, no matter who's inside, even if you form a new council of ministers, I say for a reason, because this kind of perronal synergy will further distance BiH from everything we call advanced, especially when it comes to the EU. What is my comment, and I have read it myself from the presentation of some MPs here who are part of the parliamentary majority and most, sharing positions in the Council of Ministers to agree that this Council of Ministers is bad and there is no difference, would even say that in criticism they are sharper than those who come from the opposition, but that it is not yet time for such a thing and waiting for some time to come. And the second argument is that there would be some kind of chaos, some kind of interruption or one state in which to stop this work process, the functioning of state institutions, which is incorrect, because I don't think this can go any worse, so even if that Council of Ministers were in that technical mandate, we voiced his mistrust, and even in the context of the problems in the House of Peoples, I think that's progress, first of all, it would show that responsibility to the citizens and nothing would change, because they're essentially doing nothing. I think those who might be thinking about it right now, and they know that we're right about who put up with this initiative. On behalf of the BiH citizens, I think it's also responsible for those who are inside and from those who are calculating and I understand and I know There's a lot of reasons why they're calculators. [[the speaker is warned on time]] But if this Council of Ministers is not removed today or tomorrow will probably be removed very quickly, because it is quite clear, two-thirds of this Parliament thinks that this Council of Ministers is bad and should leave the political scene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8714	The word has a representative of Snježana Novaković-Novaković-Bursać, a correction of the wrong allegations, please welcome the MPs. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8715	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I welcome all fellow MPs and respond to Mr. Šarović's statement that, that the meeting of ministers is bad and that it cannot be worse. I think it's usually the personal accident of each individual, and we as political actors in relation to, in the perception of what we think of ourselves in relation to what is really a picture of us and how other people see us. Well, Mr. Šarović, at least you've had the opportunity to participate in the most direct and five years as one of the ministers in the last meeting, you have a real opportunity to measure yourself and measure how you did it, so maybe you can actually bring a more realistic picture to the public and to the public. As you went public politically, the voters showed you, because you lost 37,000 votes, or 47,000 votes in 2018, as the president of the party you are leading in relation to 2016. As for this and competence, incompetence of your personal results, at least in the ministry you had the opportunity to lead, thanks to some inconsistency in presenting Republika Srpska's citizens, there is much to be said. Among other things, you did not leave behind any of the only documents on Trade Gora, you left behind the possibility that only two companies, none of whom were from Republika Srpska, left behind in the drawer for three years an unfulfilled questionnaire for exporting red meat to the EU market, left behind you, Mr. Šarović, anything and you are least competent, as you respect some others, to qualify for something as bad, that it can't be worse. So, there is, not at all, a disputed right for opposition colleagues, who have not had the opportunity, at least not recently to exercise power. at the level of the joint bodies, but Mr Mirko Šarović, I do not give this to you for the right, because they do not give you the right to reason or to give you citizens. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8716	Representative Mirko Šarović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8717	Here's what she said, Honorable Member Novaković, is a reflection of her ignorance and incompetence, and probably someone prepared her earlier these few things that absolutely do not stand, of course I didn't think to talk about it, I didn't mention my results in this presentation, you don't know anything about red meat exports, you don't know anything about exports to Turkey. The exports of red meat, now I tell you, stood in drawers and one other government and another ministry and did not respond to what they were supposed to answer, and not true, the exports of meat to Turkey were done on a completely different principle, you know nothing about it, and probably someone gave you all the wrong information. And what benefits or connections or parallels here are that you talk about election results, whatever they are, so they're ours, but this Council of Ministers is bad and the worst of the ministers coming from your party, they're a disgrace to this Council of Ministers, and you said there's a team coming from Republika Srpska. Look at the team and you're talking about it, you're making up certain things, look around and see how the ministers work for you. I have completed my mandate however we have both criticism and praise, but it can't be an argument for you today to defend these people who are in the Council of Ministers. They need to see, to see the exit door, to go from this executive authority, because shame and disgrace the Republic of Serbia, and that you need to find the answer to something like that, all of this, I don't think it's worth it. Thank you. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8718	Correction of the wrong quote by Snježana Novaković-Novaković-Bursać, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8719	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Except that it's more than once that big, as Mr. Mektić would now say, with a lot of feelings, he talked like I don't know anything, Mr. Šarović, you haven't denied any of my words, which means that what I said is true. As far as I'm concerned, I've reacted to your exposure and I repeat again, it's not you who can qualify here for someone, something to do one way or another. You have had the opportunity to work, after which the citizens of Republika Srpska rated you in the elections as they rated you both again and in your presentations you only hear what is heard, that cry receive me, receive me anyway. Well, Mr. Šarović SNSD here, along with his coalition partners, is leading a group in line with the election result and based on whom he thought and believes that he can both represent Republika Srpska and its capacity interests in the Council of Ministers that we have. And yet you've confirmed one more thing, it's not right and it's unnatural, the five years you've been in the Council of Ministers' meeting, because you haven't had a consistent line of decision on what it takes to move faster and on the European path, and making some operational decisions. You took that role on yourself, you wanted, you paid the price you paid, you also paid the political one that you paid, and you have absolutely no right to honor us, especially no shame, because since you and your colleague, or how you represent us today, this second party that was from your party in the Council of Ministers, can be called, has been repeatedly called in public discourse and here in Parliament with one real shame of representation, one unworthy of even being an MP, and let alone not a minister in the Council of Ministers. So, Mr. Šarović, just stick to the argument being made to you [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8720	Representative Mirko Šarović, correction of the wrong allegation, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8721	Thank you, Chairman. I will take advantage of the opportunity of the elections, I have run for this House and I have received the trust of the citizens, so much for such a thing, we are not part of the Council of Ministers, it is quite clear. In this Council of Ministers, but SNSD, your party together with other partners is in the worst Council of Ministers in the history of BiH and your ministers have not justified trust and they have no argument here to justify what they have done, not what they have done, but what they have not done. And you can't call for some 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019 free of this, you have to answer why your MPs didn't make their contribution, and today we only have four or five laws in 13 months. What are you talking about, then what were they doing, that they did not answer the matter? Here you are criticizing the previous Council of Ministers' meeting, all of us, okay, but tell me what you've done in the last 13 months, why you don't have a critical word for those who have failed and what you've represented here, you said that you'll change everything, that you'll butt out reforms, that you'll give answers to all the questions and that this country will be, you'll get candidate status. So what's the situation now, why it didn't happen, it's not our fault, me, Mektić, Borenović or someone else, I guess it's your fault. Give answers to these citizens and don't call for some 45 time that you've been doing here, share advice and some demagogue, answer why you're so bad, and we think you're bad and you need to be replaced.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8722	Representative Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic rectification of the wrong allegations, please welcome MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8723	I would first correct the wrong allegation in the sense that we do not decide here and discuss the results of the previous Council of Ministers, and especially not the individual results of earlier ministers in the Council of Ministers, we are today discussing the failure of the Council of Ministers in the current assembly. It would also correct the wrong quote of a colleague, who says the minister's contribution, I don't know, to this or the one in Republika Srpska. The Minister of the Council of Ministers, I guess, represents BiH and should behave accordingly. And the correction of the wrong allegation is also going in this direction, that the chairman of the Council of Ministers at the time, especially at the beginning of the pandemic, was just acting as if the RS prime minister, not the prime minister, or the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. If it's already being talked about competence here, although I think it's a little bit and degutant to challenge someone's competence to be an MP, because we all came in here based on procedures and the number of votes, I really have to say that we here at the Council of Ministers have really incompetent people, I've been discussing this issue in the appointment, especially when it comes to the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees. Well, please, I wish he had a video of the Minister's behaviour on the committee, the Joint Commission on Human Rights, who didn't know how to explain and report on a report from his ministry, and he's a year minister. We have chosen people here, a professor of Latin for the minister of justice, an economist who was an eternal student and a repeater for the minister of human rights, so the man in contact was never with the problem of human rights and clearly does not understand the complexity of the problem. We took off the session report because he didn't attend the minister and he comes to the meeting with his associate and again The man who was doing the report doesn't know about his ministry's report to discuss and report. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8724	Representative Branislav Borenović rectification of the wrong allegations, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8725	It's been a while since I've heard such a lot of frustration and hatred from distinguished colleague Novaković, I'm a little surprised. Especially from someone who is a symbol of government, current government at all levels in BiH. So it comes from a political party that has no political obstacles, unlike some previous mandates. You have all the power from Republika Srpska to BiH level, you have something that is guaranteed by the Constitution that every two mandates, the third chairman comes from Republika Srpska and here comes from the order of your political party, which is so much more responsibility and you seem to forget that we are at the beginning of 2021, when some kind of report is to be submitted, and realistically I really don't know what it was to you that with your coalition partners Bakir Izetbegović and Dragan Čovć of HDZ and the SDA you are doing your job in the interest of the people who chose you, who gave you a number of votes, as he gave us. Don't hide forever behind something that doesn't stand, take final responsibility and say, we did, we haven't done, because you don't have almost any results and forever look for enemies in some frustrated statements, full of bitterness, is inappropriate, not good, it's not good for this Parliament, it's not good for you either as someone who should accept the role of parliamentarian in the way that some norms are prescribed, and you've missed a great chance and the greatest responsibility for the situation in this country you are currently bearing, your political option along with your coalition partners.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8726	The debate, the word has a representative, Nermin Nikšić, here's a representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8727	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So here are a few colleagues and colleagues, in their discussions, mentioned the exposés of the Honorable Chairman, Mr Tegeltija himself, and at that time, commended the exposés and expressed his suspicions that it was some kind of list of good wishes, as a need for someone to like, and expressed suspicion, and that he himself was the chairman, and the Council of Ministers was ready to realise what was presented in the exhibition. That kind of reminded me of that folk's daughter, that she might take you away, and we know who's hanging around the house. Unfortunately, obviously, we were all right to say so, and that's why this initiative came from a group of MPs and MPs from the opposition bloc. We are finally aware that this is "Sizif's work", that the House of Peoples does not play a role in the appointment of the Council of Ministers, but it is on shift, and that both the Council of Ministers and the ruling majority can proceed peacefully with the practice of unhappiness. I have no doubt that if we had decided by our conscience, it would be difficult to find a representative or advocate who would say he is satisfied with the work of the Council of Ministers, but I understand that there is also a political obligation by the parliamentary majority to defend undefense. However, as an opposition, we have decided not to keep quiet, to do something, at least to point to problems, which everyone sees except the ruling majority. Perhaps now someone actually understands what it meant to vote for the clubs of the people in the National Assembly and the Assembly of the Zenic Canton. The way it works or how the Council of Ministers works, the way the parliamentary majority works, as you cheat on each other, you offer initiatives to pass the law and start the process fully aware, as we are now aware that there is nothing of them, that we want any progress in BiH first only the Council of Ministers should leave, and since it obviously won't, then it should be replaced by the parliamentary majority. Unfortunately, some political parties have this ability to adapt, so they are always the government, but somehow they find the possibility of being the opposition in that government and of presenting themselves as an opposition to their initiatives. The story of how most will be responsible, play conscience, has no purpose, because if he had a conscience and felt responsible, people would probably try to do something. The migrant crisis, the pandemic, the acquisition of vaccines, the protection of economic operators, scandals and affairs that come out every day, pass without any reactions, without saying that no one is trying to solve or at least offer a solution. I'm sorry that the government and citizens of the Unsaniscan canton were left alone to fight the migrant crisis. Should a scandal have been allowed when the security minister said -- we asked the presidency to ask the Ministry of Defence to ask the federal government, and we will, meanwhile, load the migrants into buses and bring them to another location. I want to publicly thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers, who is one of the few who interferes in his work, and he said publicly that there is no Council of Ministers decision. And then, after having raised a number of wrinkling questions about where the money we received for the accommodation of migrants was first shown that it could have been acted before to find a solution and it is indeed commendable that they reacted from the Armed Forces of BiH, and therefore, in particular, the question is why it was not immediately done, because the Armed Forces were probably available earlier, that there was a will to engage them. If this initiative of ours were to initiate at least one 47 ministers to wake up and move, to start working and interfere in their work, it would be fine, but here I am also to finish as I started – may the daughters take you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8728	Thank you. Representative Predrag Kojović, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8729	I thank the chairman, I welcome all present. This debate so far shows me the real accuracy of the claim that it's impossible to wake someone who's pretending to sleep, because as you might say, that's what we're doing here, we're saying that people aren't doing their job, and those who should hear it don't hear it. We have heard dozens of statistical factual reasons for the replacement of this Council of Ministers, of the number of proposed laws, the absence in solving the migrant and pandemic crises, a certain type of indifference to the possibility of obtaining vaccines that would protect the health system, save lives and allow economic recovery. If the exact fact is that we are the fourth in Europe by death of a thousand infected and that the average is about 30 to 35, that means that every day until there are no vaccines of 35 Bosanac and Hercegovac will die for no reason. I honestly wouldn't be able to work and sleep and do anything other than get a vaccine, so just one day, I'd say, cut this wait short and save 30 people. But it's quite clear, at least to me, that there's one very clear, precise ideological in this House, or I'd say the world-spectral division into two groups, two factions. One makes those who do everything to preserve this system and to preserve the current status quo and those who seek and demand and consider that some change is necessary and that this change must come as soon as possible, because it is devastating for BiH and its citizens. Because even if I tried a little in some way through the discussion and answered some of the things that Mr. Adil Osmanović said. Here, Mr. Adil, there are two options or these concrete people who are elected to the Council of Ministers are not doing well, in which case I don't know why you don't run, uh, with your political partners, the process of reconstruction and selecting people who will work. And another possibility, that it's a coalition that can't be agreed on and in that, if this is another case, then I don't know what we're going to get with a six-month wait, because that's not going to change. So, then, we're going in search of, introducing an emergency election institute to get this country out of the deadlock, in which you've made it easier to join the coalition with these political partners. And this is really what I find most difficult to say that, as I would say, I witness every day and I will end up here, it is quite clear to everyone who wants to see and who wants to hear, that the status quo of maintaining the current situation is devastating for BiH, for all its citizens in both entities and in Brcko District, without talking about BiH's perspectives in terms of European and Atlantic integration. I really don't understand people who accuse us of launching these initiatives to get certain, uh, media attention or, as you might say, introduce the country into uninvited territories. I think keeping the country in this state is what needs to be feared, not changing. And indeed, once again, if you really think that the problem is in concrete people, then I expect the U.S.A. to propose a reconstruction of the Council of Ministers, if you think it's political options that you can't reach an agreement on anything other than the division of ministerial chairs, then I don't know why you're waiting six months to say that. Thank you. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8730	Thank you. Representative Dragan Mektić's hearing, you have the floor, MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8731	Thank you, Chairman. Well, since I've already appeared twice in these replicas, then I won't, I won't, I'll try not to repay much with this discussion of mine. I was going to say, as an opposition here and a member of the opposition about this debate today on the work, that is, the dissatisfaction of the current Council of Ministers and its possible shift here, so once again I say as an opposition, may you rule until the last day. Nothing better can answer to us as an opposition than the way you rule. But when I look as a citizen of this country, as it applies to the citizens of this country, then it is really necessary, then it is really necessary to change something and try to do something for this people. Well, the terrible are the privileges that we receive here, our salaries are 5,000 marks, we take them and when we do, and when we don't, I don't know at the time of this crown how long we haven't worked, we've charged everything neatly, we've taken the privileges that belong to us, and here's what we've brought our people to, and the other day I've watched, I don't know where at some border crossing, now after these holidays or holidays, whatever you want, nine columns come out of BiH. Well, if it concerns anyone in this country and we have time to postpone it. Peđa now said, I didn't hear well, but it seems to me that I read somewhere, that we another country in Europe by the number of dead per thousand, fourth, fourth country in Europe by the number of dead per thousand and infected and then here when we talk about vaccines now, about this pandemic, we see that we don't have any concrete solution and I don't believe at all that we're going to get to those vaccines within any promised time. And they say, I've read it again somewhere, and if it's within the promised time limit, we'll have thousands more dead by then, and we've seen that Albania has begun to vaccinate its population. And not to talk about other things now, these parameters, etc. etc. I wanted to quote something Bakir Izetbegović said. Here I am reading: "The objective of the opposition, which clearly does not think about citizens," as we do not think, the position is thinking, and what we see here is, "is to make a chaotic political state and blockade in the state," and it works perfectly, perfectly, perfectly works, the situation is not at all chaotic, the situation is very, very good, this one, and hopefully, as if we could use it for the next election, is it saying, "that at this delicate political moment" I'm finishing right now, "BiH is better off having such a Council of Ministers than not having one." [[the speaker is warned on time]] Well, man doesn't understand the basic thing, we're not because we don't have any Council of Ministers, and here's what we're talking about here, let's change this that doesn't work, we don't mind having a majority, you pick another Council of Ministers, who's going to try to get out of this, lethargy and all of this, rip something up. And to me, as far as the opposition is concerned, I end up, I apologize, if my club from which I am allowed, I will vote against the removal of this Council of Ministers, ideal, good for us opposition in a political sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8732	Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong allegation, you have the word. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8733	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So, I just wanted to wait for Mrs. Lepić to come back after her performance, because she went out, to sort of correct, say, an incorrect quote. Because most often, she said, it is spoken on behalf of the citizens, the rights of citizens, the conditions, the accomplishments of their wishes and intentions, so most often those who, in fact, did not vote for, because they were not chosen by the citizens and I do not know on behalf of whom, therefore, defends those rights when many of those most often speak of compensation came. So, thanks to the narcissistic election law. So whoever's chosen and says rise, I've been elected from that constituency, got so many votes, on behalf of those people I speak, and those who came in a radical way, so thanks to the concave bill by election, therefore, speak on behalf of citizens who actually didn't want them to be there. So, that's all I wanted to do for the public is know, that most often, therefore, both initiatives and some kind of dispute on the work of the Council of Ministers and anything those who actually no one chose are, unfortunately, that's the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8734	zastupnica Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, correction of the wrong quote, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8735	First, every law in force is a law and applies. It is true that I have come from the compensation list, but it is also true, at least I think so, and by the reactions of those who follow my work, that I have justified my full status in this Parliament, working on behalf of the citizens. And we see what those who have received this huge number of votes have led us directly to this House and see where we are. So I think he's talking about who came in and what the number of votes is completely unnecessary, because it's necessary to justify that big, but also that small number of votes. So I believe that I have repeatedly justified my number of votes, and at least, therefore, I say on the basis of that, the court of those who follow my work and mean, completely transparent action and work in this House. Because regardless of all the compensation lists exist, they are in accordance with the law, and I'm sorry if someone is in the way of my discussions, especially those who are in position and who have received this huge number of votes, and they have led this country to what we have come to.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8736	Representative Predrag Kojović, a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8737	Madam Chairman, if you do not think that representatives who are in this House should be more equal than some others or who should be privileged, then I ask you to respond to Mr Lovrinović's statement in which the election of parliamentarians, in accordance with the BiH Election Law, calls it your duty. If you're not responding now, that means you agree to the division that there are some who should be more equal than others here.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8738	Zlatan Begić, correction of the wrong allegations, please welcome MP. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8739	Honored chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. What my colleague Lovrinović just said would mean that the House of Peoples should not be dissolved but should be abolished. How many votes does it take to be a delegate to the House of Nations? None and that is a huge democratic deficit in our constitutional order. The fact that no one has yet to initiate the procedure, and I would like to be mysterious again, and it does not mean that, because of this and because of such a situation, because within the legislative and constitutional authority at the highest level in BiH, there is an inclusive discrimination against citizens in such a way that two delegates without any electoral legitimacy can stop the full adoption of any law, even assuming that this directly elected body adopts it unanimously, means that in BiH the rights of citizens are violated, not only at the stage of the elections, but also in the phase and in the decision-making procedures. Therefore, I would, I know that the word parliament comes from the word parlara, which means talking, so that, I don't really refer to anyone, but given the whole of today's discussion and the ambience and the atmosphere, which otherwise government at the sessions and commissions of this House, but it does mean talking to some kind of consistency, with some kind of argument, which should be based at least on some foundations and principles. Of course, Bog forbid that I deny anyone's right, everyone here should give their opinions and opinions, and The moments, the one, I consider it necessary to intervene on certain allegations. [[the speaker is warned on time]] You know we don't talk much, we at the D.F., but we know a lot that we do and we pull a lot when it's necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8740	Thank you, counsel. Damir Arnaut, MP, breach of the Rules of Procedure, here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8741	Thank you, Chairman. čaln 76 (1) The Rules of Procedure make it very clear that when an MP, in this case, Mr Kojović, points to a breach of the Rules of Procedure that the Chairman of the House is obliged to decide on the justification of the objection regarding the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You just skipped, which you normally do, and moved on to Mr. Begić, who later appeared and the Rules of Procedure should be respected including in this provision. And also, Mr. Lovrinović should be aware that of the seven people who are from the Federation to this House selected from the compensation mandate, five have more votes than Mrs. Borjana Krišto, who is sitting in the College of the House, has a car as we all know and how much it costs, privileges, advisors etc. Well, if that's the result of some kind of criminal law, then that's the next question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8742	Mr. Arnaut, you have now violated the Rules of Procedure. As for the provision of the Rules of Procedure to which Mr Kojović was called, it is freedom of expression, then I first needed you for the first word, while I chaired, you called the law in the same case a radical one, you spoke earlier about law and law. What every MP thinks of some law is not mine to appreciate here, let everyone take care of both ethics and behavior and culture of expression, as is appropriate for a home like this. Thank you very much. 51 Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong allegation.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8743	Thank you. So, Mr. Kojović, I didn't say that the concrete representative was a nakaradic, I was talking about the law and I was talking about MPs who, on the basis of the sacracial provisions of the law, got a mandate in this assembly, which Mrs. Chairman says, that's my position. So the most they're talking about, here's what we're talking about today, and they're starting initiatives, I'm talking about it. So, I didn't, Bog forbid, if I did, and I'm gonna listen to it, and I'm sorry, so I didn't call the lady that name at all, so I called those mandates, so I called the possibility of coming and then holding on to those who have passed. The home of the people is not elected, Mr. Begić, directly, he is elected as elected by the Constitution and by the Electoral Law. And Mrs. Lepić, therefore, has a chance after what she said she justified her mandate, there will be new elections, so we will see, I am not going in, there are voters who will tell it, there were candidates who were directly elected in the last term, and after the great energy they spent in the last term they now received compensation. But that's why it's possible under this law. Thank you very much, therefore, to insult anyone I didn't mean to, I was just talking about possibilities and now it's my view that it's a radical provision, so that we have, look at how much, almost a third of the MPs who are not elected at all, but compensated. What, then we don't even have to go to the elections, so let's just put half of Parliament in this way, that way, and then, here, somebody's going to do a lot of things and they're going to hold or I don't know what.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8744	Representative Predrag Kojović, correction of the wrong allegations, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8745	Mr Lovrinović, I will not enter into an explanation for how the compensation mandates that say in principle work, that when the party wins a sufficient number of votes, a compensation list is activated, etc. It's a law that's worth it. What I've been looking for and what it requires and I think that, as I would say, the duty of the chairman is that in this room and I agree with you, the chairman, that this one, as he would say, comes from all sides, but I would like to adopt this as one rule, that all the people who are sitting here, 42, are all of us, that they have the exact same rights, regardless of whether they are elected here in accordance with the law, from which entities come, what are by nationality, religion, etc. We're all equal here, and what we're saying must have equal importance. And the only thing that needs to be established here is the hierarchy between us, the strength of the arguments, not the arguments of the power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8746	Representative Sanja Vulić, debate, please welcome MPs. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8747	Thank you, Mrs. Krišto. Since we are all equal as co-worker Kojović said, then let me say everything I have, since we have heard everything that fellow promoters had to say about what they have said is a dissatisfaction with the Council of Ministers. I must remind the public of a few facts, but also an argument as to why I consider this Council of Ministers to have done well and to state what he did well. First of all, it should be noted, if we forgot, that this Council of Ministers has been in a blockade for a year precisely because of individuals, it does not apply to these proposings, because they were not in these comfortable chairs, precisely because of the individuals sitting here in Parliament and who could not be separated from these comfortable ministerial chairs, so they extended these negotiations in various ways to remain in power and to remain in the comfort of these chairs. So everything that's going on today and what you're getting at, and you're part of it, and you're carrying part of the blame, because for God's sake you couldn't make peace with the electoral defeat, so you wanted to stay as election losers in power, which, of course, was impossible. Then, let me remind you, you left countless problems and unresolved cases to this Council of Ministers, who had to deal with it first. Here since Mr. Cikotić is coming out, he didn't say BiH has no problem with the migrant crisis, he didn't say that migrants don't come to BiH, we all know which minister said it like this – don't worry about things being under control, BiH has no problem with the migrant crisis. And all that migrant crisis he left in the amanats of this very Council of Ministers. Furthermore, you claimed that in five years, the Bridge of Bratoljublje could not have found a previous Council of Ministers, how to deal with it, while the Council of Ministers led by Zoran Tegeltija even at the first session managed to solve the problem and, of course, end in the interest of all, in the interest of our country. The reminders for the sake of this, the European Commission is in its possession, Mr. Nikola, don't talk to me, you're distracting me. Reminders for the sake of this, the European Commission wrote in its latest report that significant steps were made in co-operation made by this Council of Ministers, and stressed that the road to the EU has been cut off by the Council of Ministers. So, I remind you, it wasn't the previous Council of Ministers' meeting, it was this Council of Ministers who were controversial to you and led by Zoran Tegeltija. Then, this Council of Ministers formed a legal and expert team on the issue of Trade Gore, on the agenda of the Council of Ministers several times was the point of the agenda, which was proposed by Mr Košarac, and which was challenged by Mrs Turković. What's a fact, Zoran Tegeltija is not the guardian of any minister, because if they were all sitting here today and I wouldn't be in a dilemma whether Mrs. Turković is a virtual minister or she's real, I really don't know if that woman exists, because I've never seen her in my life. And I believe she doesn't even know the SDA, that they don't have any influence on her, because if they did, they'd probably bring her in to show up at least one session. Then, when we talk about the crown, it is extremely incorrect not to say the very important and important things the Council of Ministers has done. What is my personal impression and what I think is your biggest problem is that Mr. Tegelti, along with these ministers in the Council of Ministers, is doing what is foreseen by the Constitution, which is that the Council of Ministers has a co-ordination role, means respects the views of all governments, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Federation and the Government of the Brcko District, it is clearly not appropriate for you individuals, because you do not now have the opportunity to transfer competences, which you did during the previous period when you were in power. It is very important and important to point out that 53 during this pandemic of the unfortunate one that happened to us all, the whole planet, that the Council of Ministers had in continuance meetings with representatives of the Republika Srpska, Brcko district and the Federation, that a series of activities had been carried out together, that they co-ordinated, that one of the most important decisions was made at that time, and this is the green corridor for essential goods as soon as food shortages were prevented, etc. Since I have very little time left, there are many, many arguments that I believe Mr. Tegelti will tell you what they've done. To propose laws, to agree that there should be more of them, but there should be quality, not just the quantity that they are counting, that they are proposed and the like, I guess we need productive and law enforcement, and not just that it's written that the Council of Ministers has proposed something. And finally, when you mention how Dodik gave Bakir or Bakir something to Dodik, let me tell you, SNSD has given you nothing in the National Assembly, we have chosen our representatives in the House of Peoples, and that will be so in the next period, and I suggest to you all, who are dealing with Čović and Izetbegović and Dodik, that you do as they do with their team, to be winners, to cooperate more with people, to go to your places where you come from, in local communities, and not so many, such regular guests as you think they will be good allies, allies, but associates don't bring victory.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8748	Thank you very much. I don't see any more reports, we're closing the debate on this agenda item. And here's my word to the Council of Ministers' chairman in response to all this being said.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8749	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Such initiatives, these points of the agenda, always cause public attention, you hear about yourself, about your associates, what you never deserve, but also open up the opportunity to say something yourself, to hear the public and some other side of this whole story. At the very beginning of my opening presentation, when I explained the exposés, I said I would stick to the BiH Constitution, constitutional structures and the jurisdiction of all levels of government in BiH, that the Council of Ministers would be a place of agreement, a place where key problems of citizens and the business community are solved. Why don't we want such a council of ministers today? I am sure that most citizens, the vast majority of BiH citizens, no matter what city you come from, Bihaća, Sarajevo, Prnjavor, Banja Luka, want just like this Council of Ministers, which will be the place of agreement, compromise and the place of solving the life problems of people and the business community. And why don't we want such a council of ministers? Because the majority, including in this Parliament, swears to the Constitution and the laws, and in their heads there are various packages of constitutional change, and some of the April ones, and these, and they, all of it imaginaryly, are all that has never received support in BiH. Some would like the Council of Ministers to do what it doesn't have the authority to do, and some would absolutely disprove the Council of Ministers, regardless of who they will transfer those powers to, and the Council of Ministers remembers mostly when these problems cannot be solved where they are objectively created and where they are the place to solve these problems, and then say so should the state government, as some like to call the Council of Ministers. The motives for such actions are diverse, often intrapartial, electoral reasons, and many here who have discussed have these electoral reasons why they would talk about this, some of the problems they have entity, cantonal or some of the other levels of government. 54 In your initiative that you have signed and delivered to Parliament, you talk several times about perception, and perception in political life is important, especially in election processes, but one thing we need to know, perception is not a photograph of objective reality, but an interpretation of reality. And your remarks to the Council of Ministers represent, not an objective picture of the work of the Council of Ministers, but of your personal interpretation because of various, different motives that each of you carries with him. Perhaps this Council of Ministers did not communicate best with the public, so many here do not remember what we did in the previous period of time, and that is our objective responsibility, to communicate better, to communicate more often with the public, not to do. I am not going to talk today about what the Council of Ministers was doing because of it, or remind you of it and, as MP Osmanović says, it will be on the agenda, and also because of the fact that I am not taking up your time, because it has moved away this debate today, but I must say one thing right now, in BiH none of the things has been stopped and none has remained unrealized because of the fact that the Council of Ministers has not done so. All these blockades are on some other levels, some other decision-making sites, and we object to the Council of Ministers. A few of the points you wrote in the initiative will allow me to only briefly comment on them and perhaps one or two discussions, which were too personal and which should absolutely not be interpreted in this House. BiH's candidate status is being discussed, someone has said here by you for more than six years. Have you ever heard a word from Brussels officials about when objectively BiH has conditions to gain candidate status? We are often from the previous Council of Ministers, from the Parliamentary Assembly and the public it was a question tomorrow, we will receive that candidate status the day after tomorrow. First time in the fall of 2021. years(?) Commissioners from the European Union make it clear that BiH can gain candidate status by the summer of 2021. These are not our words, they are not my words, they are not the words of members of the Council of Ministers, they are the words of those EU commissioners who decide on this. Many things related to European integration have been blocked, four, some 12 years, and they have been unblocked, and this has led to talk about the date when BiH can gain candidate status. We talked about 14 priorities, a lot of them talked about them, you say nothing was realized. Today, the debate comes down to three issues, three legislative solutions that are needed and we have the EU commissioner's word that we will get candidate status. The Council of Ministers and this Parliamentary Assembly has many merits for this, but it also has this Council of Ministers, as has the BiH Presidency, at one point decided to participate in the process itself. You were talking about the pandemic in an explanation. But I want to tell you right now, I'm proud of how the Council of Ministers with the governments of entities and canton reacted to the pandemic. All reports of the World Health Organization, all other international institutions, clearly state that BiH authorities, just like BiH authorities, have responded adequately to the appearance of the pandemic in both economic and health terms. Together, everyone in BiH has provided our healthcare professionals with enough financial resources and medicines and equipment and protective equipment to provide adequate health care for the citizens. And I remind you, that citizens in BiH have received adequate protection in health institutions, not sports halls, barracks, inproved hospitals, etc. We are one of the few countries that have managed to provide complete health care in the herd at health institutions. Not all health institutions have reacted equally, not all are equally well equipped, but all patients have received treatment in health institutions. What did we do when it came to boundaries? We've been bringing in such heavy and unpopular measures, we've closed down, we've been running quarantines, all with the aim of helping healthcare professionals. 55 They warned us that the local elections that year were causing negative reactions to the public, but it was clear that it took time for health workers to consolidate and we were taking these difficult and unpopular measures. We provided green supply lines when everything stopped in Europe, only a smooth flow of goods, raw materials and repromation worked. And we forgot about financial support, and we want to talk about it, and these negotiations were run by the Council of Ministers, for more than a month we provided financial support of just over 700 million euros and all the funds went to entities, the Brcko District, of course in the Federation and cantons. All negotiations were conducted by the Council of Ministers of macro-financial assistance, the IMF, the European Commission, the World Bank. All these funds were used to come to the economy and to reach health workers, and you will remember or no longer remember, that the Council of Ministers proposed to the Presidency, and the Presidency to you and that from the budget of the joint institutions we singled out 5.25% of the original incomes for the resolution of the covids, it's almost 42 million KM without credit, just from the point of view of the original incomes. All the funds in two, in three decisions, have been provided to our healthcare workers in BiH. You're talking about stopping the highway construction. Do you or should know that several shares of Corridor 5C are being made in BiH at the moment, that at the moment the tenders for the execution of works on the stock from Doboj to Putnik's hill, including that tunnel, know that we have provided financial resources for the complete construction of Corridor 5C from Vranduk to Zepč, or whether we also know that we have approved four projects at the EU Investment Economic Forum in Sofia, where we have provided financial resources and a grant of 40 % of the project traffic. One of these projects is the continuation of the construction of the Corridor 5C highway from Johovec towards Modrica, construction, complete reconstruction of the railway network from Doboj to Šamac, the construction of the road from Foca to Šcepan polje as part of the road construction and integration of Podgorica and Sarajevo and of course the project related to gasification in BiH. These are all things that we have done together with the governments of entities, I am very proud of the collaboration between, with the governments of entities, regardless of whether it is European integration, economic projects or whether it is the health sector. It was our efforts and our attempts to do it all. There's been a lot of discussion here, and I'm only going to look back on some, because most of these discussions were moving in on it. Mr. Magazinović and his 16 days. I apologize to Mr Magazinović, but I have to tell you that it was before the holidays, that I am 12 days away from the hospital and that my therapy lasts until 16 January and that I have interrupted it only to show respect for this House today. I don't know if there's any MPs here who reported that we didn't immediately schedule a meeting when it was necessary. I apologize why, if that happened, but here I try to find some subjective responsibility why we didn't do it. About incompetence and so forth, let those who speak and judge go to the soul, you know when you start judging about others very quickly you get an answer from the other side. I know Đapo very well, I appreciate her work in the Federation government, but colleagues accuse me and this Council of ministers that we will be responsible for the deaths of the people of the birds in BiH is at least incorrect and unfair. That would be about the same thing if I invited all those who were out of a job to ask for a salary, say, from you, and I know that you're not responsible for it, I won't call them, I'll never say what you said here today. There have been many discussions here, the way Elez, Mehmedović, etc. communicates. I tried to be brief, not to go into the observation of all these comments, but Mr. Osmanović, a lot of what we did, we're going to present. Also, the Socio-economic Reform Programme, which we adopted at the first session of the Council of Ministers in 2020, 56 we didn't talk about it, we didn't even talk about what the effects of the first three months of 2020 looked like, was the best year expected in BiH. Unfortunately, we know what happened after that and what it all looked like. I want the European state of BiH, as much as we can get along politically, disagree, I ask you never to think that I do not want the European state of BiH, I live in it, I was born in it, these are the goals, that is the determination of the most numerous citizens of BiH, that BiH will get candidate status and full membership in the EU. I am not slowing the work of the Council of Ministers, there are no materials prepared without having been held at the Council of Ministers' meeting, all the materials prepared and equipped with opinions were held at the Council of Ministers' session. I'm not the one who takes off the agenda, you're sitting here as members of the Council of Ministers' College, and you know how it works, and you know how it all works, I'm not the one. I am always for compromise, agreement and no slow work of the Council of Ministers because of me as chairman and will never be slowed down by it. The words used by Mr. Šarović probably serve him honorably, and he knows how he acted as Minister of the Council of Ministers at the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, knows how he treated the institutions of the RS, which is what I will never allow myself, even if the government in the RS has changed, which is not possible. I respect the institutions and the RS and BiH, but the word "familiacy" is never used for you, and for many years you've been here and it's not a word that needs to be used against anyone here. Mr. Nikšić, my exposés were probably to be reconsidered after half of March, because after half of March in the world, in BiH everything changed, all of our prose, all of our expectations, all of those development projects could, we had to stay away, and we had to fight first for the lives of people, and then to fight to save this economy that is very difficult and difficult at this moment. Thank you all for, who have criticised the work of the Council of Ministers, some of you could have probably used more acceptable words and conveyed what you wanted to say. I am after your discussions when you chose this Council of Ministers said, we can say whatever we want and what we want, but we will be judged by others, we who deal with politics will be judged by citizens in the next election and be sure they will. And this, as MP Mektić said, that it suits you that we are going to last, I will only remind you that after a year of this Council of Ministers, not taking as much credit for it as the SNSD, has had a growth of more than 20,000 votes, you assess yourself. In any case, thank you to all those who have tried in a constructive way to point out problems in the functioning of the Council of Ministers, aware that they can and probably must do better, but for better and more successful work of the Council of Ministers there must be more trust, there must be more respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8750	Thank you to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Tegeltija. And since we have exhausted the debate on this agenda point, I now invite you to vote, in accordance with Article 158 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of this House, on a proposal for the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers of BiH, the replacement of the presidents, ministers and deputy ministers. Please make a statement. Of the 40 present – for 13, against 24, abstention 3. There's no general majority. I agree that the vote on a proposal for the reconstruction of the BiH Council of Ministers, the replacement of the presidents, ministers and deputy ministers did not receive the necessary majority. 57 Now we have come, yet to conclude, that there have been no other written initiatives along with this proposal, so we have nothing to declare. With this, we've exhausted point 3. We should switch to point four at this point we'll take a break, so here's 60 minutes, so I'll see you here at ten to seventeen. [[PAUZA]] I ask the MPs to take their seats, at this point in the room we have a quorum and we can proceed with the session's work. Moving to point four, Ad. 4. Representatives' request: Mirko Šarović, Dragan Mektić, Mire Pekić, Branislav Borenović, Nermin Nikšić, Zukan Helez, Saša Magazinović, Nada Mladina, Đonlagić Dženan, Zlatan Begić, Enver Bijedić, Vlatko Glavaš, Jasmin Emrić, Predrag Kojović, Aida Baručija, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepić and Damir Arnaut for the start of the vote on the reconstruction of the BiH Council of Ministers (replacement of the BiH Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs), number: 01-50-1-2481/20 of 23. 12. 2020
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8753	Thank you, Chairman. Here I will give some explanation at the very beginning of this agenda point and this initiative related to the resolution of Deputy Minister Saša Ilić's post, so Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs. We launched this initiative on the basis of certain information that we have and that we have, that Mr. Saša Ilić, in a longer period of time, has been around two or two years, for more than two years, engaged in certain illegal activities and thus obtained considerable property benefits. So let's start in order, and I'll be back in 2020, 10th08.2020, the Inspectorate of the Department of Inspection Oversight of the Republic Games Board discovered an unauthorized game-making in the region of Bijeljina. The unauthorized staging of betting electronic games at 58 luck was discovered in the rooms of Beth In at the address of that and that, and they were staged by the legal face Bingo Treid from Šamac, the findings, therefore, the Inspectorate of the Republic's gambling board, saying that Bingo Treid Saša Ilić was the owner of this unauthorized bet Bet In. The inspectors sealed off the items they served to carry out this work, and against the persons... measures taken by the law on gambling. On November 1, 2019, the following case, the same situation, with inspectors of the Republic Board of Games finding the unauthorized staging of electronic games at the Bet Inn on 30 October. The equipment for hosting electronic gambling has been temporarily taken, and appropriate measures have been taken against the legal person Bingo Treid in accordance with the law on gambling. A day later, the inspectors of the Department of Inspection Oversight of the Republic Games Board, determined once again the unauthorized staging of betting games on the machines at the Bet Inn sports bookies and not to mention every time is, uh, these gambling machines were temporarily taken away until the end of the job. On August 1, 2019, once again, inspectors discovered and established illegal gambling by the legal person Bingo Tread, so all this time, Bingo Treid appeared to be the owner of Siniša Ilić, where it was discovered that the ATM club Bet In in Zvornik and the machine at one adress and the machine Beth In at the other address staged games of chance. In the same case, the temporarily withdrawn items until the suspension of the procedure. 01.08.2018 The inspectors again discovered the illegal gambling by the legal person Bingo Treid, and it was in the Bat In automatic club and at the second address, so at the same time, at the same time, they discovered illegal gambling in two clubs. The inspectors found equipment for the event in the business space, etc. the same in the case taken away, the automatics, i.e. the funds that have served for this illegal event, games of chance, and the procedure will also be decided on these temporarily withdrawn items. 01.08.2018.The inspectors discovered, registered and discovered the illegal playmaking of gambling through an automatic gambling machine by the legal person Bingo Treid, which was discovered at the Bat In automatic club at the address in Zvornik and at the same time in the Bat In automated club, also in Zvornik only at the second address. Also, these are the cases that we have information on, we have these information, so, in one, continuously in a longer period of time, against the law, as they would say in fact, an extended crime, an extended act of illegal conduct, organised illegal gambling, thus achieving a certain illegal property benefit. So, just on these few examples, which are mentioned here, it's obvious that he's committed certain incriminating actions that can't be connected in any way, so if you want at least morally to the person who's in the position of Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs. That is why we are initiating this initiative and we are asking for the same vote, and I hope that at least on one of the seas of these various cases that we bring here we will be in a position that someone is responsible for taking certain illegal actions, which in this case is unequivocally shown and proven, because in any case there are records of the Republic Inspectorate's Office for the Play of Happiness of the Republika Srpska. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8754	Thank you to the motioner of the initiative. And now, in accordance with Article 157(2) of the Rules of Procedure, I call on the Council of Ministers to present the Council of Ministers' position on that initiative. There's no need, is there? 59 Now we're opening a debate on this initiative. Representative Nenad Stevandić, debate, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8755	Thank you very much. So first, Mr. Mektić, let me inform you that the man is indeed called Siniša Ilić, not Saša Ilić, as you have read four times, that it is not a single action that is being processed under criminal law, but seven violations, of which two, you have spoken of incriminal acts, this one, of which two are ended with punishments, and five of them are liberating. Also, Mr. Siniša Ilić is not the owner, but he is a co-owner and has no super-half, there is not even over 50% of what you have not said, and the offences are like when a transport company, truck drivers are committing violations, Beth, that booklet is finally owned by Bingo Treid, they bought it after many incidents and it was the company that suffered the most attempts of rackets in BiH, nor were they given or broken. The company employs 300 workers and last year they paid 700,000 KM into the budget and it's about people who work, do business, pay taxes, which can't be judged by those who have never done anything but receive money from the budget. There is no criminal responsibility, no judicial or criminal proceedings, it is exclusively two violations that have been charged on the spot by those who work in those bookies, and no, and never before was Mr. Ilić subject to an investigation or anything. What you have listed are many newspaper inscriptions that were produced by just those who were trying to recalibrate the said bookies, which in BiH is not missing. If we talk about what this has to do with his work in the Council of Ministers, besides being clear that nothing, I'll tell you that's the man who publicly announced ten days ago that the Federation, the Federal Government didn't pay the money for the vaccines, so it was done within three days and it didn't ruin the contract with Kovaks. That's probably why it needs to be replaced, it needs to be replaced for that participation in the procurement of tests that were more than we thought in both the Federation and RS through the UNDP. But beyond that, as I would like to say to the previous and this point, as I would say, let's present it right, as one real political thriller or perhaps one good theatre play where everyone plays against everyone, invents, I don't even know the name of the one they're talking about, or doesn't know the difference between a criminal and a criminal procedure, to narrow it down to that Mr. President of the United Serb in Zvornik, and that there he made more votes than SDS and PDP together and SDS and PDP normally to start these initiatives and use every opportunity to get revenge. The work of someone in the Council of Ministers should be appreciated by whether he did some work or not to do something that should have been deepened in his jurisdiction, you know to the ministry that I have objections too, that I have referred and discussed and asked the parliamentary questions of ministers in that ministry, Ankica Gudeljević. But as for the covids and their work at the time of the pandemic, I couldn't find any fundamental objection to them that, let's just say, I could vote for them to change if something wasn't right, as a doctor. To take a brief look at the discussion of counterpart Kojović, who spoke about the number of infected and sick and dead in BiH, to say that we do not stand so badly, looking at the overall data, BiH has two times fewer people than Serbia, and there are three times fewer people, there are one and a half times fewer people than Croatia, and there are one more people who are sick. As far as mortality is concerned, we are in a position to say, with Sweden, Switzerland, Austria, Hungary, so there is no such thing as, perhaps, the territorial deployment of BiH is such that we do not have a large number of roads such as 60 Belgrade, Zagreb and Croatia, and thus, as a matter of fact, the infrastructure appendix did not come together, so we do not need to say that there is no great merit for healthcare workers, civil protection and all the people who chose to do so, as well as those in the Council of Ministers who are in the Ministry of Civil Affairs. In order to cut this short and confirm to you, I will give you a memo from the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Slovenia which is responsible for gambling from the Management of the Games for Happiness and Mr. Ilić complained about all these solutions, 28.12. was approved by the company Bingo Treid. That license can't be obtained by anyone who broke the law. So all you said was a cat about a tail, the freshest information is the 28th 12, which was approved by that company and that company on five years' license to play games of chance, just the ones you were talking about. I asked that the material be copied, so that you would be given, not to turn this into some pointless story and collect political points or target people that are some tried to recalibrate. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8756	Representative Branislav Borenović, correction of the wrong allegation, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8757	Thank you. So here we are introducing a new practice into this country's parliamentary life, to measure who's been breaking the law, who's paid how many criminal charges, who's been taken away from the equipment for illegal kaldishops, and now we've sent in some kind of scale. Enough that, when... ten blankets are forgiven, because it's not fifty blankets, it's enough that every year you break the law on gambling and pay that criminal penalty, which is 200, 300, 500 or 1,000 marks and keep doing it and next year, it won't affect your license and we're introducing something that's, in my opinion, really absurd. I'm not saying that people in executive structures need to be perfect, but they have to have some integrity. That it cannot be allowed to have people in the Council of Ministers who, according to the official allegations of the institutions of Republika Srpska illegally deal in bookmaking at a given time, day, two, five, month, pay the fine and continue to do so year after year. If that's what we justify, we're two worlds, we're two worlds. You've justified the crown of the party, the schnapps, the experience, the music where you mock the committees, I'm the minister, I'll do whatever I want here, and you're closed and it's normal for you, it's not for me. It's normal for you to have someone illegally involved in bookies, gambling, gambling, it's not normal for me, and it's not normal for him to be a deputy minister. People, what, we justify it, I can't... mean sometimes, you know how, sometimes like that. where I am, and every time I'm shocked by trying to defend myself indefensibly, the autogo, the man admitted to doing it. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I don't have anything against him personally, it's private, he says - I did what. Watch out, you have a practice of appearances in this country, you deal in illegal stores, you pay the fine, you steal the elections and you pay for your member. And all right. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8758	Representative Dragan Mektić, correction of the wrong allegations, you have the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8759	I would support what Mr. Borenović said. So, it's not even mandatory in any case to pay the fine, so mentioning the case of the Crown Party, uh, at the time of most 61 isolation and all of that, is the question of what kind of message a minister can send like this... or something like that. When you speak and compare a misdemeanor with a traffic violation, I just have to remind you that in principle, or in general any co-operation seems to be derelict, and this is an extremely premeditated act, where an individual is in advance aware of the fact that he commits a crime despite being aware of it, he does it on purpose. The other thing, an incriminating action, every illegal act, it's incrimination, it's not true that only a crime is a criminal act and an offence is an incriminating act and an incriminating act. And thirdly, I don't even know how we're going to need to put in this whole case and event such or such election results in Zvornik. You've accomplished what you've accomplished, I congratulate you on these election results and absolutely nothing is disputed, but this has nothing to do with it. This is about, look, this is about a fact where the public is very sensitive and very, very, very negatively reacting and sending such a message, that you can commit this kind of offence, that you can be punished for it, that you can even take away the equipment that has done this work and that there is no responsibility.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8760	Representative Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegation, you have the word representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8761	Thank you, Chairman. So, it refers to Mr. Stevandić's comment on the statistics Mr. Kojović made. Statistics, unfortunately, are true, BiH is currently third in the world by the number of deaths of the herds per million inhabitants. According to official data, the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs 4 330 people died of covides. This comes out to 1,311 people per million inhabitants, worse than us are only Slovenia and Belgium. So these are official data from both the Ministry of Civil Affairs and those from international organisations relevant and refer to 152 countries in the world for which exact data exist. So we are the third worst of 152 countries when it comes to the mortality of millions of people, worse than we, I say again, are only Slovenia and Belgium. Janša is on shift, and in Belgium the government was formed in October, three months ago after the 16-month blockade. So we are obviously in a really, really bad society and it is irrevocable to say that some figures are not true, and without consulting the relevant both domestic and international statistics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8762	Representative Saša Magazinović, correction of the wrong allegation, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8763	Mr. Stevandić is trying to explain to us today that the offence is not a reason to leave the minister, but if it were a criminal complaint then that would be the reason. That, in a way, illustrates what kind of environment we're in, what environment we're working in, where we live, where resignation is, therefore, an inconceivable, impossible act. And you have cases, let's say, in other countries where we're looking, where the British minister says that because his housekeeper didn't have his work license, even though she had three checks before, and she did, when the fourth time was checked, she didn't renew, but who asked you that? You have Mona Salin who is an extremely important Swedish politician who, by mistake, probably paid her chocolate with an official card instead of the first and the last. And we need to have a debate here, whether it's a crime or it's a crime, whether it's co-owner 62 51% or 48%, it's a real shame for us all, but at the same time a window of what is Bosnian-Herzegovic politics.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8764	Representative Nenad Stevandić, correction of the wrong allegation, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8765	I also presented my colleague Arnaut, the official statistics in which Northern Macedonia and the Czech Republic are located, etc. So, I didn't say something that came to mind and didn't stand for BiH at all. This one, which is usually variable data, in a month you'll have a completely different one, as Serbia had a different one, and now it's the best in Europe by the number of deaths in 100,000 inhabitants. But here I am, reporting for Mr. Magazinović and Mr. Borenović. I'm telling you about the man they want to recruit, and you're working right now for those racketeeres, with your political harangus, I'm telling you that the man is fighting the racket, that he paid 700 thousand taxes in the budget, that he has 300 employees, but he won't pay the political racket to those who don't do anything, don't do anything, don't pay the budget, but he spends the money paid by the companies that work in the budget. And I said he didn't own it, but he's a co-owner, which is undeniable, that he's not even a majority owner, and he can't be held accountable if someone committed a violation in a facility that uses equipment from a company where he owns, and neither is his facility. Amazing replacement of the thesis and of course the memory of the crown party in your own backyard that, singing the Easter songs etc. It's a private matter, I don't like it, but it's not punished, nobody reported it from the neighbors, and all you're saying is a notorious lie, there's no application. A colleague of the Košarac had a report, paid the fine, the man was never prosecuted, he wasn't reported. So, I'm talking about always defending a man who defends himself against rackets from both Republika Srpska and the Federation, and this firm was recruited, she didn't want to pay for the rect, and that's why they're doing it, and I repeat, she paid 700 thousand marks in the budget last year, and in the end, when it all goes down, you find the politicians to make an extra haranga so that someone can charge the rect. I don't want to interfere with people like that, and I'm telling you what's a completely different and moral and political dimension, it doesn't occur to me that I'm defending someone, I'm talking about facts, and the most important thing is the fact that all of the company's actions were obtained and that on 28.12 last year, so 15 days ago, it was registered for that activity despite false applications and recitation, period.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8766	Representative Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegation, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8767	Thank you. Free, Mr. Stevandić, is trying to paint people here, according to official data from the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs and relevant international organisations is the third worst of 152 countries when it comes to the death of the herds per million inhabitants. Your finding that the data is variable doesn't help you at all, because according to these same sources, BiH has in the last seven days been the tenth worst place of death since the pigs per million inhabitants. So these are the data, and for this are responsible, of course, the competent authorities, and the government-level authorities are SNSD, HDZ, SDA and DF, as we saw by today's vote, in the RS SNSD and in the Federation of SDA and HDZ, and thanks to them, we are the third worst country in the world when it comes to the death of covids. 63 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8768	Representative Saša Magazinović, correction of the wrong allegations, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8769	If someone's recruiting the deputy minister, he should report it. Now, it's unclear to me why you, as an agent from a break that comes from a man who's a deputy minister, and you're saying that someone's recruiting him, didn't raise that question here before the shift initiative came? Look, it's not a small thing, someone's recruiting a man from the Council of Ministers, so what do the citizens expect if what you're saying is true? And finally, what does it say about the security situation in Republika Srpska, where you are in power? So someone can recalibrate a man from the Council of Ministers. So, you're saying big things here today, among other things, about the security situation in Republika Srpska, where you act in power, very large.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8770	Representative Branislav Borenović, correction of the wrong allegation, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8771	So here's another proof that we're still two different political worlds, and that's why we're on two sides, you're in power, I'm in opposition. Your environment is racketeering, obviously you know these people well, and obviously you have a lot more information than we do, and I don't know why you don't solve it as part of the ruling coalition. You're obviously living in that environment, you're part of this primitive, arrogant environment, and you're probably excited about it, if for you that footage that saw the citizens of Republika Srpska and the environment is something that is socially acceptable, because there's no criminal record, evidence of another reason why we're the opposite, the totally opposite political sex. And I repeat, you have still so much insolence politically to defend it, to justify, that in continuity you do some serious violations according to the institutions of Republika Srpska, according to the publications, I guess you, the credible media of SRNA and RTRS, because I know that you have an extremely high opinion of them, official reports of the Republic's gambling agency, not you're a judge, you know who's guilty, you're here giving yourself the right to teach us lessons like a thief, and who's not, who's guilty, who's not, because you're looking at the video and you said that what happened on those crowns is totally acceptable, it's no punishment for what a man paid a few violations, which is quite normal paid a tax of 700 thousand, maybe you should have paid a million, maybe paid a million. Are you the court that decides who can or should act here? It is our right to suggest, to influence, to insist, and to demand that such people, with such moral credibility and with such violations, cannot be in the institutions of any country, and not these, that is our right, you vote against and always justify such attitudes.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8772	Representative Nenad Stevandić, correction of the wrong allegation, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8773	I have to tell you that your language is incredible, rude and that no one has told you anything, or has tried your crime, so I'm just saying that you won 300 votes in Zvornik, and United Serb 3,500, so that's motive for me. And Mr. Ilić did not pay 64 fines, he was not convicted, he was not reported, but the company where the co-owner was punishable, later it was annulled, and the RS Treasury's competent ministry was on December 28th, these are facts and documents, these are not charm stories, glaring, the final solution was made, I am telling you that you are telling the truth. As for Mr. Magazinović, you don't listen to what I'm saying, I said that the man was trying to recalibrate and that he didn't pay for the racket and that he won here because he got a 28.12 registration and that those who don't manage to charge the racket find the politicians to make new affairs and maybe that's a motive to pay for the racket. That's how it's done everywhere in BiH, I don't need to defend a man who hasn't been convicted for nothing, he hasn't been punished, nor has he paid for what he's paid for, he's just a victim of a haranga, who was first tried by a few racketeeres, and he's gonna try a few politicians. Mili Bog, it is everyone's right and every self-image and everyone has the right to have his own judgment, only he has no right to insult, to use an uncivilized dictionary and to make false statements. For what I'm saying, I brought a document to copy you and what I'm saying is behind it. Please think a little bit about the documents. I don't want to defend this BiH in the sense that we're not so bad, because I defend health workers, I defend my colleagues, I'm going to be with patients, and I know that we've done a lot of good results because no matter how small a country we are, and I don't want to put on a pillar of shame, no matter what I think about BiH and what I don't like about it, but I don't want to put it on a pillar of shame in health when she's still able to produce envious results, and the struggle of the sick is, let's say, above the top 30, 30 countries of the EU are worse in the struggle of hundreds of thousands of people, and we have this, to say, is not to say, whether the fifth or six or three countries worse than we are in the number of dead, but these are the data that are changing. I'm telling you this as a doctor who works with patients and knows a lot better and doesn't use it for political advertising like you do.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8774	Representative Dženan Đonlagić, correction of the wrong allegations, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8775	Thank you. You see, Mr. Stevandić, therefore no, you simply have no argument here to defend this thesis. So it's really about losing credibility and personality integrity to behave in a state-level position, a member of the Council of Ministers. But this I wanted to, several times you used the thesis that tax was paid, that tax was paid in the budget. Don't use that thesis, so paying taxes is a legal obligation, that a certain legal person, so, a company, paid certain taxes in a certain budget, which means that she did a good job, that she had a solid turnover or a profit, I don't know now what kind of tax you're talking about, but it's just inadmissible, so use the thesis because someone paid some tens of thousands of taxes, which is why it should be used as an argument in defense. So let go of that argument, so don't, because paying taxes isn't voluntary, so that's something that's legally binding and not working on the principle of volunteering.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8776	Thank you. Representative Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, debate. _________(?) 65 [[no microphone turned on]] And I'm sorry, Branislav Borenović, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, later reported.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8778	Article 7 that I do not have to use a discussion of the breach of the Rules of Procedure regarding the Code of Conduct, which means that truth and only truth should be spoken. I don't know, colleague Stevandić, what was offensive in my dictionary, the word political impudence, primitiveism and haughtiness. If that offends you, then here's a chance for some tonality to ease. I think those are the words that best describe what you're trying to present to us. And I also came forward for a reason because you mentioned something that I have to react to, elections in Zvornik, which you're proud of, symbol of election rights, correspondence, doixing, facts where...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8779	Agent, I warn you, you've been abused.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8780	The code of conduct, it wasn't telling the truth.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8781	We don't know, you're not here to determine if someone, you're right if someone put out the wrong quote to correct the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8782	Well, it's okay, no problem. I'll take the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8783	You don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8784	I'll get back to you on the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8785	Or report through the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8786	Well, of course, how can you not...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8787	I'm sorry, but we're obliged to comply with business regulations. Representative Damir Arnatu, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8788	The predsjedavajući, Article 7(1) is absolutely clear that the MP has the right and duties set out in the BiH Constitution, the law, the decision, the Code of Conduct of MPs and delegates in the 66 parliamentary assembly. And the Codex makes it very clear that they're telling the truth. So if this, if Mr. Borenović has called for this, I don't see what's been broken here and I'm saying this for the sake of future situations. Do not interpret the Rules of Procedure in a way that has never been interpreted and in which it does not stand, because then it challenges the need for breaks to comb the Rules of Procedure and see exactly what it says, and then we can go deep into the night. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8789	Just to tell you, that you have misused business provisions, we have had such opportunities so far, there is no one here who should interpret the Rules of Procedure, it is known to whom the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure are given in the possibility of, uh, interpretations. Representative Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic debate, please welcome MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8790	I would first refer to the beginning of Mr. Stevandić's discussion, where he says we are trying to make theatre performances here, that these are some thrillers, therefore, even the previous point, this, therefore, concerning the shift of the Council of Ministers. I'd say there's one tape here, but just when it comes to the work of the Council of Ministers, so ministers and their deputies. So this is where a soap opera is made from the work of the Council of Ministers, because it is always wanted and sought to defend itself indefensibly. Namely, none of what colleagues have already counted, not to repeat myself, so from the crown of a party that is not only a violation that has been paid, but immoral behavior that puts other people's lives and health at risk, this, and beyond. So, nothing here is obviously more valid than just defending immoral behavior, illegal behavior or the unhappiness of the Council of Ministers. So, we are always attributed to the political points when we point to this, so please, we are also at the previous point, and here, and even when we asked for the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers because of these crowns of parties, we have submitted arguments and we have submitted evidence that ministers or their deputies should resign at the very least or that the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers should be carried out. I would just say, that I also believe, that the injured Rules of Procedure, in the sense that, here we are talking about that this minister should be, the deputy minister should be removed for these reasons that are mentioned, is equal to the racketeeres, because Bog, here we are supporting those who have begun, trying to recruit the deputy minister. I do consider this an insult, and I ask that such statements and such findings are not used. We didn't even get the evidence out here, whether it was recalibrated or not, but it certainly has nothing to do with what we're discussing. I would really ask to take care of what is attributed to whom and how it is discussed.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8791	Representative Branislav Borenović's debate, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8792	Thank you. Well, since we have heard the attempt to explain these procedures by the Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs that it has its basis in the elections in Zvornik and the achieved result that is above average, which is above the results and individual political parties to which I belong, which is not exactly commendable, because it is the environment in which there are numerous electoral irregularities and in which individuals, 67 so here are probably the ones that you mentioned, they accomplish in the continuity support of 100 percent of the personal votes, which is impossible and that it is a symbol of these electoral rights, which, of course, is possible to prove, if there is political will, and also the will in the judicial institutions and just in Zvornik and some other areas where it is typical and it is not to praise. It's actually a shame, because it's something that actually drives all these processes after that, you guys, when you make an election scam and you're texting your voices with your similar election committees, you open up a space for political corruption and then you get under your hat to fit everything. Well, then it's perfectly normal for this behavior, it's perfectly normal to abuse public resources, take money in an illegal way, deal with illegal gambling, deal with all sorts of things that are essentially immoral, which bear responsibility and criminal, but also criminal and what is terrifying, people who justify it. And that's why I don't think you should congratulate fellow Mektić for the election result in Zvornik, because you know that this is about electoral fraud, that this is about correspondence, something that was typical, given the 87 political entities, which are registered for elections there and if there is power we can open up the debate one, if there's a will here to solve a question that might be a question of all the issues in this country, one serious electoral law, an election rules that would allow us to have fair and fair elections, that we will carry out in the way that serious democratic countries do it, and that we will prevent any kind of electoral manipulation, which is actually rooted out of these things that we are talking about, which I am convinced, most of us disagree, but there is one part of those who strongly support it, but thank Bog is political life, and we will be habitual with arguments on the one side and on the other side, so we will see it over and at which point we will not show ourselves rightly. And that's why I felt the need to say it, I'm sorry that you didn't let me end up hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8793	Thank you, Agent Borenović. No more reports, closing the debate on this agenda item. And now I call on you to vote immediately on the proposal for the reconstruction of the BiH Council of Ministers, the replacement of BiH Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs, Mr Siniša Ilić, in accordance with Article 158 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. Of the 36 present – for 22, against 11, controlled 3. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I agree that on the proposal for the reconstruction of the BiH Council of Ministers, the replacement of BiH Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs, Mr Siniša Ilić, we have received the necessary majority. We're going to point five, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law, Proponent: Representative Saša Magazinović, issue: 01-02-1-1769/20 of 4. Nine. 2020. (second reading) The bill was adopted in the first reading at last session of the House in the second round of voting. The Constitutional Commission delivered the Report, the draft law was adopted with one amendment. 68 I am opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. Saša Magazinović representative, debate, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8795	Very briefly, we said everything and we told it all last time, I just want to thank the members of the Constitutional Commission who unanimously supported the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8796	Thank you, counsel. No more reports. We're closing the debate on this agenda point. We're going to point six, Ad. Six. Proposal for amendments II, III, IV and V. to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Representatives from the SDP Club of BiH, issue: 01-01-1-2070/20 of 20. Ten. 2020, with the opinion of the Constitutional Commission At the previous session, the House of Representatives did not accept a negative opinion of the Constitutional Commission, and the Committee was in charge in accordance with Article 113(3) of the Rules of Procedure for drawing up a new opinion. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion, the commission again failed to establish that the proposal for an amendment is in line with the BiH Constitution and the BiH legal system. I'm opening a debate on the Constitutional Commission's opinion. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point seven, Ad. Seven. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on Predrag Kojović, Aida Baručija, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepić and Damir Arnaut's proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the 14th session of the House of Representatives reads: "It is necessary for the BiH Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to start the search procedure within ten days of the adoption of this initiative, diplomatic and other appropriate channels, information and documentation from the competent authorities of the United States of America that Nikola Spiric was involved in public corruption and achieved the benefits of this initiative during the conduct of public functions and other appropriate channels, information and documentation from the competent authorities of the United States of America that Nikola Špirić was involved in public corruption and achieved the proper benefit of the exercise of public office (Bol) of 28.190-108. Nine. 2020.), number: 01-50-1-15-14/20 of 10. 12. 2020.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8820	I thank the Honorable Chairman. As you noted in the introduction, this information came to the conclusion of a group of MPs and deputies, who requested full information for the first eight months of last year, which is related to the current migrant crisis and all activities carried out by the BiH authorities and institutions in order to reduce the negative effects of the migrant crisis, and in particular to highlight a part of the conclusion that all police and agencies, bodies and institutions in their jurisdiction are present in the debate on the control of the migrant crisis and asylum. I must say that I am not satisfied with this Information because it has several statistical indicators, i.e. 77 statistics and findings already known. Also, information with its title doesn't match what we've been looking for, but contentally it has certain data relating to an eight-month period. The example is, what is important for seeing the weight of the migration situation in BiH is certainly the number of migrants moving on the migrant route that passes through BiH, and we know that migrants entering BiH have a goal and the purpose of their movement is to cross the border with the Republic of Croatia and join the EU countries. In this way, given that the European Union has closed its borders for migrants, not to accept them, they are most concentrated in the northwestern part of BiH, or in the UN-San canton. The increased inflow of migrants has been flowing since 2018, as has been contained in this Information, i.e. in the introduction, which means that for almost four years BiH has had a serious problem with migration. I expected that through this Information we would also have indications, i.e. proposals for measures and activities of the BiH authorities and institutions to better control this migrant crisis and the migrant situation, to reduce negative effects and to improve the security and health situation that monitors such security and health risks and challenges. The information states, under point 2., that is the title – Unlawful Migration in BiH, that in the first eight months of 2020, a total of 11 292 illegal migrants were reported to the Foreign Office, down from 39% compared to the same period in 2019. However, when we look at the information from the Ministry of Interior of the UN-San canton, then we see that, in the area of the Unsko-San canton for the same period for eight months 2020, 23,696 migrants have been legitimateized. Of course this information, as far as I'm assessing it, wants to show a decrease in that migrant flow, but if this number is legitimate in the Un-San canton, and the Foreign Affairs Service shows a smaller number, then there's no answer. What's up-to-date, and why is there such an emergency of data? In order to make a quality assessment of the number of migrants in a given area, we must consult and take into account all data from all police authorities and agencies, and here is an example of the Information Ministry of Internal Affairs, which I have stated, it is estimated that, in addition to those migrants who have been reported in temporary reception centres, in meadows, in abandoned residential buildings, in forests, there are some 8 700 migrants who are, all of them, illegal but not reported, they are not at all in any record system and this must be taken into account to be able to assess the gravity of the migrant situation in a particular area. What has been up to date lately is the insistence of the BiH Council of Ministers and Minister of Security, Mr Selma Cikotić, that migrants return from the site of Lipa to the so-called. the temporary reception center of the former Bihac Bureau factory. I have to say that for more than three years we have had serious problems in the Un-San canton and spent enormous energy to maintain such a security and humanitarian situation, and we have discussed this before in this distinguished House. So one of the solutions, which was agreed, was to get out of The city's environment is being shifted from migrants to locations that won't have such harmful and negative influences. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I only apologize for five minutes of discussion, and this is important information, so let me have a few more sentences.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8821	78 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8822	So lately, the overall migrant situation has been assessed only in the area of the UN-San canton and it has the greatest weight in the UN-San canton and we cannot understand that the authorities in BiH, that the authorities and nistitutions that need to take care of all security risks did not understand it at the right time. It was time to move the containers to Lip's location from the former Bureau factory, and to establish a temporary reception center as imagined. Nothing was done and then this and the humanitarian crisis and the very ugly images that went from BiH were caused and related to the migrant crisis. What is important and what follows this aspect of the migrant crisis and is contained in this Information, is the spending of financial resources, and we have discussed this before in this distinguished House, and we have asked, in one conclusion, that the spending of financial resources should be transparent and that this report be detailed, transparent and that it contains all items necessary for such reporting. Unfortunately, even in this Information we do not have a full financial report, we only have unknown items relating to the spending of the total financial resources allocated through the IPA programmes of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so in eight months for the migrant crisis and migration, a total of EUR 17.086.481 was spent. Which means that in BiH, 341 euros have been spent monthly over the past eight months per migrant. Also when we take these financial indicators, for example, for example, current expenditure of temporary reception centres for August of the month amounted to 1,166,774 euros. When this amount is divided by the number of migrants, which are officially located and which have been registered at temporary reception centres, and when that number is divided by the number of days, then we get the amount that in August of the month cost a 191 euro accommodation, that is, that is, that is, the average amount. Of course, for each temporary reception centre, these financial amounts would be different, but we don't have a report here what that means and what the sub-items of this item are the current expenses of temporary reception centres. So it would be very useful if we had information and I didn't understand why Minister Cikotić didn't show it in this Information, how much rent is paid for Miral, for Bira, for Sedra, which is that. Informally, we have information that these amounts range from 20,000 euros per month and up to 50,000 euros per month. What is true is what is important and what needs to be known and what should contain this information about the spending of BiH's financial resources, because IPA funds are BiH's funds, they come for BiH. So it is now spent on migrants, which is essentially the means to spend on improving the overall economic environment, on infrastructure, on rural development, on the development of agriculture, etc. and we spend these funds on migrants and these are the funds of BiH and that is why I insist, dear Mr Cikotić, that it is shown in this information, why such a lease is paid, if it is true, and you must have that information and you know what the real truth is, because the decision adopted by the Council of Ministers on 11 March 2019 stated that the temporary reception centre of the Bureau was established on the basis of a lease contract concluded between the International Organisation for Migration and the Dionycian Society "Bira" Bihać. It also writes about the location of Miral in Velika Kladusa, so that is, the centre was established on the basis of a lease contract concluded between the International Organisation for Migration and the "Mila" Shareholder Society. Also for the former Sedra hotel in Carin, it was established on the basis of a lease contract concluded between the International Migration Organisation and the Society with limited responsibility for the Hotel “Sedra" Cazin. In addition, the management of these migrant centres has been taken over by the Foreign Office, and Article 4 where it is determined that all the meetings will be financed is that the costs of the rent, establishment and financing of the work of the Centres referred to in Article 1, and in relation to Article 2 of this Decision, as well as the costs of the Agency’s security agency’s engagements are borne by the International Organisation for Migration, mode of operation, conditions of financing, coordination of work and mutual cooperation 79, will be more detailedly arranged by a Memorandum of Understanding between the Foreign Affairs Service and the International Organisation for Migration and other Competent Authorities in order to work effectively. So our institutions, bodies, the Foreign Affairs Service, the Migration Co-ordination Body or the Migration Operations Headquarters must have all the information on how to spend these funds, so that we can know how much migration costs us and what these costs are at each center per month or for a certain period of time. Also in this part of the information on challenges, risks, I expected it to be a concrete one review of the actions planned to take and which would give some hope that BiH Start managing the migrant crisis, there's nothing wrong with that. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And I suggest three conclusions, and I've already read the first conclusion on the third item of the agenda, and we haven't spoken about it, so I'm going to suggest it again. The second conclusion concerns this – That the Representative House of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is obliged by the Council of Ministers to immediately amend the Decision on the establishment of temporary reception centres for migrant accommodation in a way that deletes the location of the former Bihac factory in Bihac from Article 1 and deletes the point of a from Article 2. And the third conclusion – The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives tasks the BiH Council of Ministers to take all activities, procedures and actions within 90 days to close the temporary reception centre of the former Miral factory in Velika Kladusa, and to amend the decision to determine the temporary reception centres for the accommodation of migrants in a way to delete from Article 1 the location of former Miral factory in Velika Kladusa, as well as to delete from Article 2. point (c), i.e. to close that reception centre within the specified period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8823	Thank you, counsel. We've got a few registered deputies in terms of the debate, but the Minister of Security called, so do you want the ministers at the end when you hear or want to do it right now?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8824	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8825	If it helps, here's the minister you've got a word for, and we'll proceed with the debates. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8826	How much time do I have? [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8827	Just you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8828	Ten minutes to a little... 80
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8829	Well, don't cross, but.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8830	Okay. Thank you. So, in relation to the conclusion of this House, and also to the obligation of the Ministry of Security to provide its reports to the Council of Ministers and the Presidency of BiH, this information has been forwarded, but I think it would be good to give a more complete review of the current situation, what we are preparing in the framework of annual information, and I do not mind that, within some reasonable time, this regulated and processed data in the light of the annual report, I deliver to this esteemed House and to offer answers to all these questions, but I appreciate that it is very important to clarify certain facts, i.e. to rule certain facts in terms of proper understanding of this situation and in terms of the severity of the crisis and the fact of who opens, who manages, who funds, who controls finance etc. what are the responsibilities of which, in that sense, I would go first and foremost from one overall review of the present schedule of migrants at the end of 2020, and I would go by certain functions briefly, so that respected representatives would have one more complete picture. So, 31.12. at the temporary reception center of Usivak, which opened in October 2018, which, according to some capacity assessment available, has 800, was located 813, in the centre of Blažuj, which opened in December 2019, which has a planned capacity of up to two thousand, at the end of last year we had 3 389. So, a total of 4 202 migrants at temporary reception centres in Canton of Sarajevo. At the space of the Unsko-San canton in Sedra, which opened in July 2018, which has a capacity of 420, we had 343 migrants, in Miral, which opened in November 2018, whose capacity was estimated at 700 we had 1,032 migrants and in Boris, which was opened in January 2019 in Bihac, which has an estimated capacity of 580, we had 329 migrants, in Bira which was opened in October 2018 with estimated capacity of 1,500 migrants. So, in total, we had 1,704 migrants within the provisional reception centers in the space of Unsko-San canton. I add that at that time, at the site of Lipa, therefore, the former co-viduum of the centre, we had estimated some, somewhere around 900 migrants and what were the assessments of the International Organisation for Migration and Foreign Affairs in the space of the Unsko-San canton on private buildings, abandoned buildings, in forests or other hiding places were probably another thousand to a half of migrants. In the centres of BiH's institutions, at the Immigrant Centre in eastern Sarajevo, which has 120 seats at the end of the year, there were 53. At the Azilant Centre in Delijas, whose capacity is 150 seats, we had 31 migrants. At the Centre for Refugees and Displaced Persons of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees in Salakovec, whose estimated capacity is 200 seats, we had 11. So, in the centres of the BiH institutions of 470, we had 95 filled seats. So, in total, when we add these centres of institutions and temporary reception centres from the estimated capacity of 7 470 in the centres we had 6 001 migrants at the end of the year and that should add at least another thousand and a half to two of those who are in private accommodation, in abandoned facilities, etc. The information I consider relevant is the fact that the eastern border towards the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro is very difficult to safeguard, efforts have been made in the sense that the Border Police, which has a very reduced and human and material-technical and organisational and tactical capacity to properly control the entire border, is thought of spaces between border crossings, 81 has been moved so far that the Council of Ministers has made a decision on the reception of 300 new members of the border police, of these 300 there will be 250 border police officers and 50 officers in the act of a younger inspector. Security and police institutions have been increased, so the Police Authorities Coordination Directorate hired a total of 386 police officers, 39 at the end of the year. The state Agency for Investigation and Protection hired 135 officials the most, at the end of the year 10. The border police and the Republika Srpska Interior Ministry signed an agreement in 2018 and 945 police officers were hired during the agreement last year, and at the end of the year 79. In terms of the engagement of cantonal and entity MUPs, border police also signed memorandums of co-operation with the Brcko District, Herzegovic-Neretva Canton, Posava Canton, West Herzegovina Canton and Kanton 10. State border mechanisms have also been activated in terms of the international exchange of joint patrols with the border authorities of neighbouring countries which, due to restrictions due to the COVID-19 pandemic, have been significantly reduced. The Office for Foreign Affairs in its statistics records a significant drop in migrants during 2020 compared to 2019, so that 16 190 was registered in 2020, down from 29 302 from 2019 by 45%. It is very important that I also comment here on the ideas of returning migrants to the territories of the countries of origin, in order for this to be done in a legal, legal manner to sign a readmission agreement with countries of origin, such an agreement was first signed on November 04th of last year and as far as I know in one and another country, signed with the Islamic Republic of Pakistan and in one and the other country is in the process of parliamentary ratification and until it is ratified it will not be possible to apply, and even when it is ratified it will not be easy to apply. For several reasons, because these countries have no interest in applying these agreements and very high security measures are needed also in terms of renting aircraft companies to do so, as well as in terms of monitoring and protecting migrants being deported in this way. However, what is still being done, the Foreign Affairs Service worked on the implementation of the Programme of Voluntary Supported Return on the basis of threats to BiH's national security during the previous year, and in co-operation with IOM, 259 people from different countries of the world were returned to the programme last year. Here's a review of the countries of origin of illegal migrants, the forerunners of Afghanistan during the previous year with a total of 28%, followed by Pakistan with 24, Bangladesh with 17, Morocco with 9 and Iraq with 4%, followed by some smaller percentages by Iran, Algeria, Egypt and Turkey. This is what some fact or essence of asylum is, so of these 16 190 intentions for asylum, 15 170 were submitted, and the asylum application was 244 or 1.6 of those 15 170 that expressed their intention. I would like to tell you that the asylum policy in BiH is so manipulated that within 14 days of the submission, most of these migrants are trying to cross the border of the Republic of Croatia and reach the Schengen zone, or the EU and reach some of their desired destinations. Of these asylum seekers, here is the review, Iraq participates with 72, Turkey with 39 and Avganistan with 31. I think it's important to note that in the past more than three years, as far as we have this process of showing intent and making demands, none of these migrants have been granted asylum. As far as the accommodation facilities are concerned, I have given an overview and I would like to comment on this last situation, which is repeatedly referred to by the distinguished representative Emrić. Therefore, the Government of the UN-Sancanton opened all temporary reception centres in 2018 and 2019. The temporary Lipa reception centre, which is the subject of a kind of humanitarian disaster, which is already widely placed under some kind of control, was the 82st result of an agreement between the UN-Sancan government and the European Commission and opened on 21 April this year as a tent settlement for patients' needs. These ideas that the Bira containers in Lipa were not implemented for reasons that there were neither legal nor financial, nor technical, or building preconditions for such an idea to be realized. In fact, the European Commission first needed to convince us to turn this centre into a temporary, covid tent centre, temporarily transforming it into a temporary acceptable settlement. The Ministry of Security also made a proposal to the Presidency at the meeting by UN-San-San Canton and Mayor Bihac, which was attended by a prominent representative of Emrić, the presidency also reached the conclusion of the Ministry of Security in Co-operation with IOM, the Foreign Affairs Service and all other organisations involved in the care, i.e. the management of migration, that is, to the realization of this plan. The prime minister of the UN-Sancanton is without any agreement with the other participants of the plan, which was made on September 30th, emptyed the camp and closed it, although it was not in charge. However, the Ministry of Security continued to realise steps towards creating conditions for us to turn Lipa into a temporary reception centre, we were able to convince the European Commission to accept this decision, then they didn't want to finance it, in the end we managed to get their consent to finance it because it was a relatively demanding project in terms of funding, and in no state budget we had any money to realise the project. In order for anything to be done, we had to have a Council of Ministers' decision to declare a temporary reception centre in order to spend both the funds and the employment of state institutions and international ones we had to have a Council of Ministers' decision. So that decision was made on 21.12. Afterwards, I held a conversation with the Prime Minister of UN-San Canton, the mayor of Bihac, and I did not get the consent, but it seemed to accept one logic to temporarily open the Bureau, to mix migrants from Lipa into it, so that we could remove tent structures that existed there, to build for these few measures a temporary Lipa reception centre and to finally and forever close the Bureau as a temporary reception centre in the town of Bihać. But there was no such agreement. The International Organisation for Migration is 23.12 with other international organisations, including domestics involved in the service, i.e. the service of the Kovid settlement left the area, the burning of the tent settlement in Lipa. Then we had low temperatures and in order to avoid humanitarian disaster seeking some sort of temporary solution in consultation with the Ministry of Defence and the Government of the Federation, I remind both Blažuj and Ušivak were made available to the Office for Foreign Affairs in previous years and thus later declared by the Council of Ministers for Temporary Acceptance Centres. We wanted to use the same mechanism here, but we had resistance practically across the whole vertical institutions, if you will from the Council of Ministers to the municipality or from the municipality through the Government of the Herzegovina-Neretva Canton, as much as I heard from the Ministers of the Croatian People's and the Government of the Federation, in order not to create new or larger problems we gave up that idea and the Ministry of Security asked the Armed Forces, or the Ministry of Defence to engage the Armed Forces to urgently install tents, to create conditions for the stay of migrants in these tents, it was also done. I brought together one team practically all of these participants from the Prime Minister of Unsko-San canton, from Bihac, Director of Foreign Affairs, IOM Director, representatives of a large number of international organisations, were there and representatives of the European Commission, on January 3rd we were staying at Lipa's locality, defining one content of the works, we again made a tour on Saturday, a smaller team, but we realized that in these tents, accommodation of migrants and that virtually no night was the condition that any of the migrants remained in the rain, in the cold, were used containers which were left and tents that remained from the former tent dwelling settlement. So I think it's necessary to have facts and truth in this sense, there's a large number of actors who participate here, maybe I can share one impression, when all of these actors of 83 of my lawyers were to be drawn up, I've been given suggestions that I'm not taking any responsibility and that I'm not giving anyone any task because I don't have any authority to do that. This is something that we will think about in the time ahead, the laws for foreigners and asylum laws are also unadjusted for this form, number and intensity of migration and are already being updated according to their intention to create the capacity to monitor and service migration, which affects the complete space of the Western Balkans, including BiH. In that sense, I think it is also important to say that at the Council of Ministers, we adopted a plan, measures and activities for effective migration management, so a document almost two years before that was made, the same session took a decision on the establishment of a Working Party on the establishment of a Strategy in the field of migration and asylum and the 2021-2025 Action Plan. A few days later, therefore, Olduka was Olduka in to establish a temporary reception centre for Lip and the Council of Ministers is 31. made a decision on, at an emergency phone session, reminding the government of the UN-Sancanton and the mayor of Bihac to implement the Council of Ministers' Decision taken on 11 March 2019 in which they themselves took part. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I have here a proposal of activity and measures, but I respect the time limit, if anyone is interested, we can also make these proposals, including these priorities, measures and activities that are contained in the plan, and I can also repeat this united material once again, within a period that is defined to be delivered to this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8831	Thank you, Minister. Representative Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic reported for the debate, please welcome representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8832	The Joint Committee on Human Rights rejected the Information, which is the subject of today's review, for the simple reason that, I mean, it's not one, it's not the only reason, but it's strange that something we asked for in the ninth month we get in the 12th, so the information was four months late. The Commission for the Joint Committee on Human Rights attended the last meeting by the Deputy Minister of Security, who told us that the Information on the State of Migration by the Ministry was delivered to the Council of Ministers every month, and here I have also writtenly suggested the conclusion that such information was then delivered monthly to the MPs of the House of Representatives, given the importance of this issue and the current situation in this area, and therefore we can say one escalation of this crisis. I'm glad the minister mentioned a strategy in this area, because I was just about to ask what happened to the strategy. So that's the 2021-2025 Strategy, and I have to say that I'm disappointed with the fact that a working group has just been formed, so, with the information that the minister just told us, we should have that strategy in order to consider it at the beginning of this year. I don't know how long it's gonna take to make it up, but I don't think it's a proper relationship with such a significant question. Also, I would ask the question – how is it that the Coordination Body for the Migration Issue has met only five times in eight months, and we see, therefore, what is the situation with the migrant crisis and what is the situation in the UN-San canton? Because once again, I still think we all need to stress that the greatest burden of the crisis is to bear that canton. 84 Also, here, the minister spoke of the regulations and the lack of regulations in the area of asylum, in foreign affairs, and said they would only be working on their amendments and additions. I think it is also very late, and this crisis has been going on for three years, and I believe that the obligation of the Minister of Human Rights and the Minister of Human Rights and the Refugees was to make this activity, meaning legislative approaches immediately after taking office. I think this is too late, and I would also say that from the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees we haven't heard a single voice, nor any indication, nor any reaction, nor any activity of this ministry called the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, this, related to the migrant crisis, and I also think that it is devastating and here I would, therefore, have made this written conclusion for the delivery of monthly information, and indeed from this place I urge that this legislative activity be approached as soon as possible, and that we get, if possible, at the latest within 60 days.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8833	Representative jasmin Emrić rectification of the wrong allegation, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8834	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I would just like to explain, given that Minister Cikotić has made some findings that do not follow the earlier course of events. First, the Government of Unsko-San canton did not open any temporary reception centre, nor was it in the jurisdiction of the Government of the Unsko-San Canton, and I, in my discussion, cited who opened the temporary reception centres, is the Council of Ministers' decision of 167th session, which was held on 11 March 2019, which reads - the decision on the establishment of temporary reception centres for the accommodation of migrants and in Article 1 of this Decision, there are only temporary reception centres in the area of the Un-San canton. So I ask the question, here is Mr. Cikotić, I expected you to point that out – why are all the centers opening in the area of the UN-San canton, why is the voice of the citizens of the Un-San canton not respected when they say they can no longer bear the burden of the migrant crisis? Well, here's Minister Cikotić said there was resistance in other cantons and it immediately came to mind, okay, there's resistance, you know, there's a minister in the federal government and his voice, and I think it's the most important thing, and 300 thousand people in the Unsanican canton suffer for four years doesn't matter. ministar Cikotić, we must say here, this is a political game, all of you who are in power, SDA, HDZ, SNSD, have the least political damage when migrants are in the UN-San canton, and when it is necessary to open a temporary reception centre in the smaller Bosnian Serb entity Republika Srpska, then it cannot, when it is necessary in any other canton then it cannot, in any other city, do not. But he can go to the town of Bihaq who's the only one who's accepted migrants in the spring of 2018 and agreed to monitor the situation, edit. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I also expected you to answer my question and get to know the public – what are the amounts paid as a lease for these temporary reception centres, Miral in Velika Kladusa, Bihac, Sedra in the town of Cazin, these are private facilities that are paid, what are the amounts, why is the so expensive accommodation of migrants in BiH? Well, it's not the same when the migrants are on Lippa under the tent and the one in Sedra in Bihaq. We need to know why the price is such as the calculations, so you're responsible for the financing of the migrant crisis, the Foreign Office, the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Security, that's clearly defined, here's a member of the 4th Minister. So, you all know, you have this information, here's how these centres were established, on the 85th basis of the lease agreement, and it's taken over by the Foreign Office and everything here is specified in this Decision, the decision adopted by the Council of Ministers, is not the government of the UN-San Canton, not the Prime Minister. Unco-San canton... [[the speaker is warned on time]] Biru, it's already the realization of the conclusions on the basis of earlier decisions by the City of Bihac and the Assembly of UN-San canton, and this is the current that should have been continued and realised to reduce weight [[the speaker is warned on time]] Migrant crises in Unsko-San canton. [[the speaker is warned on time]] All the other games are borderless and apparently where there's no U.S. government there can be migrants and then whatever. either Canton Sarajevo has the same problem, only two cantons in BiH have the problem and bear the weight of the migrant crisis. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8835	Advocacy Alma Čolo's debate, please welcome MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8836	Thank you, Chairman. I would look back a little on what Mr. Emrić was saying and Mrs. Marinković-Lepić, she said the biggest burden of the migrant crisis was filed by the UN-San canton. From the figures presented by the security minister, it is obvious that there are more migrants in Canton of Sarajevo than in the UN-San canton, only the treatment of migrants in the Un-San canton is obviously inhumane and more public space. If migration, refugees and asylum are something within the authority of the BiH state, which is under Article III of the Constitution, then the BiH state must be allowed to do its job in accordance with the Constitution and the law. No chief, no canton, no entity can prevent the BiH state from managing the migrant crisis the way it decides. If the Council of Ministers has made a decision in 2019 to establish acceptable migrant centres and if the Bureau is one of the temporary reception migrant centres cannot ban the prime minister of the UN-San canton from being a migrant centre, it is a violation of BiH institutions' decisions. Your prime minister says he will challenge the Council of Ministers' decision before the Constitutional Court, so what he did not do if he thinks it is legally possible, it is not legally possible. In this country, the rule of law should be respected, the institutions of the BiH state should be respected and the local community cannot order the state, and I am against what has been done in Bradina, as the citizens have been said, the local community cannot say here, so the state is responsible for migrants under the UN Convention on the Prevention of Tortrum and all other forms of inhumane conduct and punishment, we keep these migrants in inhumane, humiliating conditions and treatment, in such a treatment is not any prisoners in a criminal-required establishment in BiH and you cannot propose today, Mr Emrić, these conclusions, which you will deny the decisions of the BiH institutions and that we, as the highest House of Law in the State, support your conclusions, is the destruction of the legal system of this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8837	Representative jasmin Ermić rectification of the wrong allegation, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8838	Dear MPs, you first needed to read the Decision, which was adopted at the 160th session of the Council of Ministers on 11 March 2019, and then to discuss, because you did not read the legal basis of this Decision at all. Saću'll read it to you – on the basis of Article 17. The Law on the Council of 86 BiH ministers, and on a proposal from the BiH Ministry of Security, the BiH Council of Ministers at the 167th session, held on 11 March 2019, moved on. So the legal basis is just a procedural nature, it's a Article 17. The Council of Ministers, which prescribes that the Council of Ministers, in its jurisdiction and in its work, shall make decisions, conclusions, etc. Where's the material law? And these temporary reception centres were created because the citizens of Unsko-San canton were human, and then they accepted, in the spring of 2018, migrants, to temporarily take care of them and respect this Decision, which does not have a foothold in the law, this is not prescribed by the BiH legislative framework, read the Foreigner Law, the Asylum Act, and you will see that this is the case. But we had this feeling for those people who are suffering, who are going on some journey into inexperience, so we temporarily accepted them and took care of them, temporarily, but it's the fourth year, so now you're saying that we in the Un-San canton have no sense of these people and that we caused their humanitarian suffering. Well, first of all, it doesn't stand, dear colleagues, so have you been to one of those temporary reception centers? I've been following it since 2018, a colleague and a colleague here, us eight, ten. from, which are gathered at the Club for European Integration and Security Affairs, past these centres and then we said this must be resolved in BiH and [[the speaker is warned on time]] Constant activities and this is by our initiative to discuss it, to deal with this situation, and then you say how we do [[the speaker is warned on time]] We have no sense of migrants and that it's our fault for their suffering, it doesn't stand. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Canton of Sarajevo is a bigger canton than the UN-San canton, but you and Canton of Sarajevo have a problem, we do not want this problem to be transferred to any other area in BiH, but to manage and control the migrant together. with a number of migrants tolerable quotas in an area. [[the speaker is warned on time]] We can't have so many migrants in one area, and in other areas there aren't any migrants. So when you say no one can stand up to the Council of Ministers' decisions, you see how they can When the citizens of Horsemen gathered at Bradin's location and said, "No, he can't come here, there won't be any migrants here, not a hundred can't, not a thousand can't do anything." [[the speaker is warned on time]] And in the U.S. canton, five thousand can, ten thousand can, so it can't be, it's not the management of the migrant crisis, and it doesn't stand for you colleagues to discuss.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8839	Representative Nermin Nikšić rectification of the wrong allegation, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8840	I'm giving up, this is really going to go too far.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8841	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Alma Čolo, correcting the wrong allegations, please welcome fellow Members.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8842	I did not say that the citizens of the UN-Sancanton do not have sensitivity for migrants, that was not my ultimate intention, but I am talking about respect for the rule of law, if the Council of Ministers as an executive body at the level of the state makes a certain decision, I think that decision must be respected in BiH and cannot be put out of the Sanga. I'm not happy that there are over four thousand migrants in Sarajevo, but I think the police should do their job and 87 among migrants, as well as among ordinary citizens, there are criminals who commit crimes and the police must be effective. Also in your canton, if the police are effective she will prevent crime, but I am telling you that the state is responsible for international conventions and if we are asking the state to solve the migrant situation, you must give the state your hands open, Minister Cikotić cannot place migrants on Mars because no local community wants migrants in his environment, he must determine locations on BiH territory. Why are they only on your canton? Because the fluctuation went towards your canton, not the minister sent them to the Uno-San canton, they happened to you, because it suits them worse to cross the border, we all know it, but you can't so we're managing a crisis with a... migrant crisis from a local level, if we're all doing it from the level of every commissioner, then there's no management of the migrant crisis.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8843	Thank you, counsel. Representative Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8844	I would correct the false allegations of colleague Čolo, precisely in the sense that, of course, a representative from the UN-Sancanton will demand that the decision be annulled because of the fact that only the UN-Sancanton determines temporary accommodation centres for migrants. I fully agree with my colleague, Čolo, in the sense that the state has to do its job and that if it sets up a refugee center, then some facility, then it must do so. In Tuzla we also had a case where under my windows migrants were a year and more days, they weren't stationed at all, outside with blankets, with, so later they got some tents, etc. And you see in that neighborhood no one asked us how we put up with it. All those arguments near school, that four August classes when you cross primary school, 500 meters away three high schools and no one was worried that we were suffering and watching and what, therefore, these migrants are here. No Niko wants migrants, that's a fact, and then when the accommodation facility was set up, then that local community rebelled, watch this, and it gave up. So it's quite understandable that MP Emrić wants to change the Council of Ministers' decision, because it turns out that only again in Uno-Sanko Canton should be acceptable centres, and you see that Bradina has given up because a handful of people also came and said we won't. Well, no one will, neither will we, but here under my windows were a year and something in town, meaning in the city, in the city zone, and no one. So in that sense, I think Mr. Emrić wanted this decision to change. And in any case, that we should bear the burden of the migrant crisis by reputation for Serbia, because here are our colleagues from the RS who refer in many horrors to Serbia, so let them also refer in this regard. Serbia is I've deployed the burden of the migrant crisis, so eventually in one small place where I'm going, because I have a relative there, these migrants are undetectable, because they've evenly distributed this burden against the number of people and they're practically so and they don't notice. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8845	First of all, I ask the MPs to stick to both the debate and the corrections of the wrong allegations, and representative jasmin Emrić, you have no right to do so. Sanja Vulić, here you are, correcting the wrong allegations. 88
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8846	Thank you, Chairman. Well, I just want to thank my colleague Marinković-Lepić-Lepic for the advice. Republika Srpska is very clear when it comes to this accommodation of migrant camps, from the beginning we have a very clear position and we remain with it, without any compromise, thank you for giving us whom we are to look up to, we know very well. My proposal and my application to Mr Zatler is that all of these 85 million, as far as he says he gives the EU to Bosnia and Herzegovina when it comes to solving the migrant crisis, takes the schedules to the EU countries, which help us as something, and let those people go where they want to go, because the fact that they absolutely don't want to be in BiH and that we are just passing routes, go where they want to go, and let the EU representative help us in this way, and not that they're making some kind of demagogy, they're sending us some kind of money, which basically doesn't help us anything, just a matter of problem. I sincerely feel sorry for all people, especially in Blažuje, I went down to the school base and I know the great end, especially those people who have problems with migrants and all the general people who have problems with migrants, I am sorry, but also the European Union, if it's honest, helps us in a way that opens up borders, not give us advice on how we should live with them. These are not people we should be sorry about in terms of refugees, they are not people who have gone away and who have been expelled from their homes, they are people who have left their houses because they want somewhere further, somewhere more beautiful, somewhere where they are more comfortable, BiH is not the place to do so, and so let the EU take care and let them open the borders and let them go or return them to their homes, this is what the minister was talking about, let these agreements be signed and all satisfied.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8847	Representative Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic rectification of the wrong allegations, please welcome MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8848	The EU has just said it will not open the borders, therefore this discussion does not stand. So, the EU will not open borders to migrants, and this is exactly the disrespect of the BiH state, which is otherwise a permanent system of behaviour of a number here and of MPs, as well as political parties in Republika Srpska. Because here someone can say they're not going to be migrants, and that's okay, and I think we should first remember the position of our citizens when it comes to these migrants, and that we should really show some solidarity, if nothing, and some human feeling towards the citizens of the Unsanican Canton, who have endured this crisis for so many years.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8849	Representative Damir Arnaut rectification of the wrong allegations, here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8850	Thank you. Partly Mrs. Čolo, part of Mrs. Vulić, so you see here is quite clear what it is about what Mr. Emrić is saying. So, there's no such thing as any shared responsibility, no burden, all of it, so it fell to the Unsaan Canton, part of the Sarajevo Canton, but the biggest burden is indisputable on the Unsaan canton and on top of that, you have one anomaly that you can't see anywhere the migrants are located, in any other country, that they're located in the city center, so I'm talking about this location of Bira, the man is talking about it. And as for what the Council of Ministers, which instructions can win, be careful not 89 you can turn things around, the Council of Ministers cannot be above Parliament. So if Parliament adopts a conclusion asking for something from the Council of Ministers, it is quite legal and legitimate. And as for who should open the borders, that's what I was talking about this morning and asking Mr. Cikotić to deliver those answers to me. Why are our borders towards Serbia, where migrants come from, obviously more open when it comes to our border police than the borders towards Croatia, where migrants want to go? So why is our border police more helping Croatia not to have migrants go there, instead of putting more resources at the Serbian border where they come from? So, this is one question that I really insist on getting these answers, Minister, to see why our border police are assisting the authorities of the Republic of Croatia to stay in BiH, and therefore in the area of the UN-San canton, because they are trying to cross, this, why is it assisted by the authorities of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8851	Representative Sanja Vulić rectification of the wrong allegations, you have the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8852	Thank you, Mrs. Krišto. I just want to say that we will all show respect for BiH and all citizens when we take a stand towards the EU and that BiH is not a safe house for migrants, that we do not need the money they send or offer us or give, whatever it is, that the EU should listen to the EU's desire to let them go where they intend to go or return them to their homes, not to give all of us, both the state and all of us here in the state's parliament, and they give us some instructions about how we're supposed to be solid. We, gentlemen, are solid, but you're not solid, you're maltletting our citizens by closing borders, opening borders let people go wherever they want, and then let your great powers and countries solve this problem the way you know it best.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8853	We are going back to the debate, MP Šemsudin Dedić, here's your representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8854	I thank the chairman. Well, I would be happy if my colleague Emrić, in addition to these three conclusions, suggested another conclusion, which is most important when it comes to the migrant crisis in our country, which is that we open up migrant centres in other parts of BiH and that this Parliament, the House of Representatives, adopts such a conclusion, and my voice and attitude of the SDA Club towards this Council of Ministers will depend on how they will respond in the coming period to the Security Ministry's initiatives to open up the migrant centres in other cities in BiH. The town of Bihac and the city, the municipality of Velika Klajuda, i.e. The UN-Sancanton suffers the greatest damage when it comes to the migrant crisis, in part because of weak coordination, and perhaps partly because of our peas, in 2018 it was said here, when they were open migrants, the centres had no vote by the government of Canton and our officials, and so it was three years and now that situation is different. It is true that no official consent has been given, but it has been given a tacit agreement, unfortunately, and it has been given because people from IOM are different donations in equipment, vehicles, in donations to the city of Bihac from the European Commission, from other cities, all in some way thought that the migrant crisis would last five or six months, and certain donations and funds will be obtained and that this will end. However, it is obvious that both the mayor and the 90 government have made the wrong assessment and the citizens of the UN-Sancan canton for three years, for over three years they have had a problem solving the migrant crisis. However, there are many daily policies here, counterpart Emrić says where the SDA is, where the SDA government is not there are migrants. No, it's not because the conclusions from Brussels have said that migrant centres cannot be in private facilities, and me and my colleague Emrić know whose private facilities they are, perhaps the A-SDA government depends on the leases in these private facilities. The town of Bihac in the last year and something SDA has entered the majority and the SDA has raised its hands and given the initiative to assign city building land 20 km from Bihać to build a reception centre, so that millions of funds are not spent on these leases, and here I am from the ministers and from the people who prepared this report, citizens have the right to know the cost of these funds. Analysts will show that people who are employed there have minimum salaries of 2,300 KM and beyond in IOM, up to those high wages, analysts will show that these acceptance centres have a private start of the contract with 15,000 euros, today I hear half, off the record, 15,000 euros were the first, meaning from 2018, and today they reach maybe 30,000 euros and see who these people are, who is who of some benefit from this migrant crisis. We took responsibility, took responsibility and asked the Council of Ministers to build us a camp on state land so we wouldn't pay the rent and move the migrants out of urban areas. Unfortunately, we've been waiting for the Council of Ministers' decision for a year to determine that camp Lipa will be an acceptable center, which is the assumption that we should close the Biru, as well, to close these private other centres. The government of the Federation of Canton, for its part, presented 4 million marks in 2019, and we have not yet received a report on the spending of these funds. Here, we had initiatives, I hope we have, so let's see where those funds are spent. On our part, we want the Lipa camp to be built at the latest here within three months, according to security ministry officials, Minister Cikotić, to move the migrants out of the Bureau, and it was never intended for anyone to force the migrants into the Bureau. The fact that the Prime Minister canton sows some kind of statement, just fear, some kind of distraction that houses around the Bire, that it's all, hundreds, says, the house is burned down, it's broken down, it's not true. It's true that it's a difficult situation, that the people who are neighbors are here in the eye of the Bureau. that they have problems, but that so many objects are set on fire and that so many situations are put on some level of fear among citizens, it's not so. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And we're asking, on our part, that, just to say this, the minister is here and because of the citizens, no one by force meant to put migrants in the Bureau, I would be embarrassed as a representative from the Unsaniscan Canton if my minister did. But what is being promoted by the A-SDA party, which is ruling in Canton, which promotes a policy of autonomy towards Sarajevo, is the thing that will certainly be the one in the coming period through media advances, through official data, the one presented. Because the official data of the MUP and everything that needs to be presented to the citizens, not to sow some fear and create some kind of uncertainty among the citizens. I hope that the Council of Ministers will, in the next period, first build Lipa within three months, determine second locations and in other parts of BiH for the reception centres and third, when we next declare on the support or non-support of the Council of Ministers, the migrant crisis will be a security issue that will ask for an answer and define me personally as a representative and Club of the SDA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8855	Thank you, Agent Dedić. A representative named jasmin Emrić has applied for non-compliance with the established agenda. 91
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8856	I have no other option for the Honorable Chairman, but I have to answer to Mr. Dedić. A-USA doesn't run any autonomous policy, A-USA has always been since the beginning of this crisis.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8857	Please, counselor, you didn't get a word for correcting the false hope, please don't get a word for it, you asked me for a non-compliance with the established agenda. Representative Nikola Lovrinović hearing, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8858	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I have first taken a little more serious interest in this issue as a representative in the past term, and I hope that not now some who know more than I do, when I say this, that I will now speak very uninformedly of this matter, very uninformedly, which is a shame, therefore in a number of years behind, and say that it has started getting more serious since 2016, no one is seriously reporting anything about it and here we come, probably even in worse situations we will come, we have come into difficult, perhaps even more difficult. In the last term, so in 2018, I have asked the following questions to the mayor of Bihac today, and I have not received an answer until today, and there have been questions both on the impact of spending and on how, what, I have not received all these questions until today. I've set up the Council of Ministers, I've set up the Border Police, and I've been getting these two answers with a big delay, but these are the answers, this information today, especially what the minister said, that's a huge advance against that information that I got back then. So, I don't know how other fellow MPs know all about this, I almost don't know anything about this, so not even after this information. 40 per cent of the people in BiH entered, we heard the information just before, rather than last year. Is someone coming out, if he doesn't come out, then there are 100,000 refugees, exiles, etc. It all started with the story of Syria, war and Syrian refugees, who should come here because they are threatened by war, and here they come, you heard from which countries and here Miss Sanja also said, so who are these people. I propose and ask, therefore, to tell us what we are not told here, we have as Parliament mechanisms for this and the Council of Ministers, confidential documents. Who are these people, as they go on the road, intelligence, why are they coming here, why did they choose these routes, what do they expect, where they're going? So these are the consequences, the number this, the number where we put them, how we put them, we don't want them, they don't want them, so the people I need that information, they're, of course, the accompanying part of all of this. Give us the data as representatives of what's going on, how come there's 16 grand to get in here, 20 grand, is there a hundred thousand, or is there five thousand, seven, eight thousand, how do you say it's here, where are the others? As they come out, no one says anything, how they come out, who brings them out, who lets them out if the borders are closed to the European Union, Mrs. Lepić, where do they go, where are these people? These aren't the people from the war-related areas, they're young guys, so without them, they're rare with families, with women, with children, you don't know how to set yourself up, give us the data. Mrs. Čolo, therefore, I don't need to tell you that, the county has a constitution. When an organisational unit of the state administration has a constitution, that means it's a state. So, here's to correcting me if it isn't, she can pass regulations and laws under her authority, if she has a constitution, so, almost everything. But I agree with you that this cannot be resolved on a partial basis and neither will 92 be resolved on a partial basis, that it should be agreed, that the koordinacijski Body is meeting, that these issues are being resolved and that this is being seen. So, I suggest to the Minister, first of all, on the basis of Parliament, give us, close the session, give us the data from all the institutions that deal with these institutions, which can't be represented like this or not, and I can't convince them to give us all the data, nobody here, nor the minister, can convince me that they're taking information out here that they know everything or if they don't know them and they tell us that. Where do people, how do they go, why do they go, what happens, who participates, what kind of organizations, what kind of people, how do money get, who approves it, who spends it, who does justice, who gets justice? You have a million questions, you have a million questions, so we're going in circles. So, I've learned something today about data and facts that I've never really heard before, and okay, they're kind of giving me a hint that I can talk to, but give us one session like this, if there's no other, so we have mechanisms, or give us information that we don't even have to discuss, let us read them where we have that room to read them. What's going on? What's going on? So we can be MPs, if we run this country, if you want us to run this country as agents, as Parliament, so give us the information. If you're hiding them from us, so there's everything and everything, there's everything and everything, there's 4 million marks, no one's given a report about it, they send, they say, 23 million euros, no one, so what's going on? There's a price of accommodation so big, so this, so from this session, if this is all seen by some viewer, well he, I think when we MPs no longer know what's going on, what's going to happen to the regular viewers or listeners of our triads here. So, I suggest to the College that, here, I won't write the conclusion, but I think this topic will be back on the agenda, that the information they haven't given us, we want information about what's going on, if it's confidential, and if you'd mind implementing some measures there's a mechanism for it, and we know it, but let us know that at least we as representatives of what's going on. This way we're just gonna spin around in circles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8859	I'd like to thank the representative. For correcting the wrong allegations, MP Zlatan Begić, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8860	The esteemed chairperson, respected colleagues and colleagues, is a bit observant this construction of a misquote correction, I actually want to say that I agree with my colleague Lovrinović in this section when he spoke about the deficit of information. That's exactly what I was talking about a few sessions ago here and I suggested, the initiative was to form a temporary investigative committee that would be composed of representatives of this representative body, who would go out on the ground, gather information, inform all of us here. As I recall, this initiative was not welcomed here with approval and even expressed doubts about what was meant to be achieved, in fact it was wanted to be achieved to get on the ground and to finally get the right information, because I don't have the right information either. In the media space half is information, half is misinformation, you don't know what's going on, we don't have relevant information, how to get in, how to get out, why these routes, which are the reasons, are the exact same discussion in that part I had when I proposed this initiative. But in the end, I don't know what it is, what happened to it, it's not supported, as far as I know, that it's supported, but now we'd have a report from our people, representatives who went out on the field, determined all the circumstances and presented it to us here, one thing. 93 The second thing, because of the record, is doing a stenogram, which someone is going to read, what one of their colleagues just said, uh, we went a little too far. This debate sounds terrible, given that these migrants are still human, human beings, terrible, terrible, this debate, no one wants them, and these will not, with all understanding and empathy towards the citizens of BiH, please bear in mind that they are human beings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8861	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong allegation.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8862	My colleague Begić, I'm not sure and I don't know, I may be able to support that, therefore, if the Commission's investigative Parliament, which does not have the mechanisms of the executive bodies of the authorities, therefore, solve this issue and give us some information, but here I can agree. However, in particular, I forgot to say earlier, especially the eyes opened to me, and I hope to you, and it seems to me that this whole debate, is what Mr. Radončić has turned his attention to. So, if you had one ambassador who didn't want to cooperate, and today says the minister we signed that first agreement, and some of the others we'll sign, but you know, they're not exactly willing to implement those agreements. What does that mean, what does that mean? That they're in on it. What does that even mean, so give us that answer, give us the answers, who won't sign, whose citizens, what do they want with us, what do they come here at all? We are talking about our country, let Serbia speak for itself, let Croatia speak for itself, let it say whatever anyone wants for itself, we are talking about ourselves. What are they doing here, what they want, what they want, what they want, why are we supposed to be some kind of stepping board or, as they're watching us, I have no idea? So, I agree, if the commission is to contribute to that, I don't mind being a commission, but bodies, agencies, so they have to give us an answer, if he's classified, that because of, I don't know, tactical moves in space and their actions, you can't go public, I agree, but let us as agents that we know and that, I don't mind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8863	Thank you. With this, we've exhausted the debate on this agenda point. Moving to point 29. Ad. 29. Consideration of Damir Arnaut's parliamentary initiative, which "needs the BiH Council of Ministers to implement, within ten days of the date of adoption of this initiative, all the necessary procedures for the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia with the aim of pretegorising the border crossing of Gabel Polja for international passenger traffic or its opening for small-border traffic, and in any case the opening of that border crossing for the retail traffic of primary and secondary schools", issue: 01-50-11777/20 of 15. Ten. 2020. 94 The Home College has designated the Committee for Transport and Communications to consider this initiative, the committee responsible has delivered its opinion, the initiative is supported and addressed to the House in the follow-up procedure. I'm opening a debate on the initiative, but with one note from the MP, that we have this same point under regular number 15, so when we come to the vote that we don't say twice about the same initiative, completely identical. Do you agree, counselor? Here, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8865	I agree, I've already tried to find a solution with the secretary, uh, these strange situations, the fact is that Dom adopted an identical initiative that I offered since September, uh, so I don't really see the need to discuss it twice, but if you don't have a way to take it down, then let it vote on everything.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8866	We have, here's what we're going to find out is that you're as complex as the Proposer, so we're going to talk about one initiative, so under point 15, we're going to make a statement, because it's already in the second round of voting. We're crossing, here's the conclusion and the debate, and as far as this point is concerned, we're done. So we're going to point 30. Ad. 30. Discussing Denis Zvizdić's parliamentary House of BiH's Parliamentary Assembly tasked the Council of Ministers of BiH with agreeing within 30 days of the adoption of this initiative, as the holder and coordinator of the activities, the revised document of socioeconomic reform in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period 2020-2022 and following the Action Plan, taking into account the economic crisis caused by the coronary pandemic (COVID-19) and the necessary austerity measures in the public sector and the measures to help the economy to be taken in the next period with a view to the recovery of Bosnia and Herzegovina's economy", issue: 01-50-1-2161/20 of 5. 11. 2020. The House College designated the Joint Commission for Economic Reform and Development as responsible for considering that initiative. The Joint Committee delivered its opinion, the Committee accepted the initiative. I'm opening an initiative debate. For discussion, the motion for an initiative, colleague Zvizdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8868	Thank you very much, once again, for all MPs and MPs. 95 Very briefly, first of all, I would like to thank the members of the Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development, who supported this initiative. It is, in fact, the need to revise the Socioeconomic Reform document of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period 2020-2022, which is in fact a key reform document of the Council of Ministers' work, whether it is also a kind of reform agenda for BiH, because this document was agreed and adopted in the pre-pandemic period of the Coronavirus. Therefore, it is clear that the socio-economic aspect of the document, relating to economic growth, to the competitiveness of the private sector and to a better business environment, needs to be redefined in line with the economic recovery measures following the coronary virus pandemic, which must include a whole new chapter relating to measures and activities that will enable the return of BiH's economic flows and economic recovery precisely according to a model such as the Economic Reform Agenda, which gave both very good and very measurable economic results, the results of BiH's economic development for the period 2015-2020. So, the initiative refers to the intention of the BiH Council of Ministers as the bearer and coordinator of these activities, together with entity governments, to bring together a revised document of the socio-economic reform of BiH for the period 2020-2022, which will, of course, include measures and activities for the sanity of the economic consequences of the coronavirus pandemic and the resolution of the consequences in the sphere of public health.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8869	Thank you, Comrade Zvizdić. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point 31. Ad. 31. Discussing Denis Zvizdić's parliamentary initiative, "the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives tasked the BiH Council of Ministers to adopt the Anti-Corruption Strategy for Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period 2020 as soon as possible, not later than ten days after the adoption of this initiative. – 2024 and following the Action Plan, which is an obligation from the European Commission on the request of Bosnia and Herzegovina for membership in the European Union and the accompanying Analytical Report", No: 01-50-1-2165/20 of 5. 11. 2020. The House College designated the Joint Commission for European Integration, the Joint Commission delivered its opinion, the Commission did not support the initiative. I'm opening an initiative debate. For the debate, my colleague Zvizdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8871	Thanks again. Namely, this is about the need to realise both the domestic and international obligations of BiH, which we have taken over through several documents, the first Action Plan of the Council of Ministers for the Implementation of the priorities of the European Commission's Analytical Report, which was adopted already in 2019 and the deadline for implementation, i.e. the adoption of this Strategy with the accompanying Action Plan was May 2020, so that the deadline has passed and it is time for this to be adopted. 96 The second document is the European Commission's opinion on BiH's request for membership in the European Union, where under point 7 BiH stands a clear obligation to strengthen prevention, thus also through strategic documents and concrete activities, prevention and the fight against corruption and organised crime. And the third document is the European Commission's report on BiH's October 2020 progress. The importance of this document is also in the fact that without this strategy and this document 75 state institutions cannot revise their plans to fight corruption, which is their legal obligation, which they now directly violate without the existence of a strategy and an accompanying action plan. The need for the adoption of this Stategia has also been pointed out in some ways by the OSCE Mission to BiH, the European Union Delegation to BiH and the US Embassy to BiH. And why I gave the initiative quite a short period of 10 days, because this strategic document and the Action Plan were actually prepared, they were at the session and they were returned, that is to say they are off the agenda for a certain amount of work, which has been completed and there are really no more reasons, no longer any need for delay, because by adopting this document, we are strengthening one important process in BiH, it is a fight against corruption and organised crime, at the same time we are solving one of the tasks that we received in the European Commission's Opinion on BiH's application for membership and we are finally showing credibility in the area of the rule of law, which is extremely important for BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8872	Thank you, Comrade Zvizdić. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We're moving on to point 32. Ad. Thirty-two. Discussing Denis Zvizdić's parliamentary initiative, "the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly tasks the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare and to refer to the draft law on market surveillance of Bosnia and Herzegovina within 60 days of the date of adoption of this initiative and to the parliamentary procedure in order to bring it into line with the acquis of the European Union, i.e. Regulation No. 765/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 Seven. In 2008, which sets out the requirements for accreditation and market surveillance relating to the placing on the market of different products", number: 01-50-1-2168/20 of 5. 11. 2020. The House College has appointed the Committee on Foreign Trade and Customs and the Joint Committee on European Integration to consider this initiative. The Foreign Trade and Customs Committee delivered its opinion, the initiative was supported and sent to the follow-up procedure. The Joint Committee on European Integration has delivered its opinion and the Committee has not supported the initiative. I'm opening a debate on this initiative. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. 97 We move to point 33. Ad. 33. Consideration of Denis Zvizdić's parliamentary initiative "the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly mandates the BiH Council of Ministers to forward, within a short period of time, not later than 30 days from the date of adoption of this initiative, preparation and parliamentary procedure, the Proposal for a Law on the Regulatory of Electricity and Natural Gas, Transfer and Market of Electricity in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in order to implement the obligations of the Third Energy Package from the Energy Community Treaty and the obligations made by the European Commission's Analysis Report of the European Commission on the request of Bosnia and Herzegovina for membership in the European Union", issue: 01-50-1169/20 of 5. 11. 2020.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8876	Thank you, very briefly. Therefore, the adoption of the first draft of the Integrated Energy and Climate Plan of BiH is a commitment accepted by the BiH Council of Ministers, as well as the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations in its Work Programme. The deadline for the implementation of this obligation is in the Action Plan in May 2020, and we are now, of course, in January 2021, which means that this 98 realization, the realization of this commitment, is not over. It is extremely important for BiH, because it is bound by the views of two important international institutions. The first is the Regulation of the European Commission, which sets out the obligations of Member States and countries that are aspirants for EU membership to draw up national integrated energy and climate plans for the 2021 period. The second is a commitment to which the Energy Community is actually bound, because we need to meet three key objectives, which is to increase the use of renewable energy sources in total energy consumption, increase energy efficiency and reduce greenhouse gases. We have also accepted this through the signing of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, and without this Integrated Plan, which relies on the Strategy for the approximation of regulations in the field of environmental protection and air protection, adopted by the Council of Ministers in the past term, we will not have access to funds, loans, grants, investments in the scope of renewable energy sources, nor in the area of energy efficiency, which is why this Integrated Energy and Climate Plan for BiH is extremely important and I thank the commission that supported this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8877	Thank you. No more reports. We're closing the debate on this agenda point. We're moving on to point 35. Ad. 35. Discussing Denis Zvizdić's parliamentary initiative, "the BiH Parliamentary House of Ministers tasks the BiH Council of Ministers, within 60 days of the adoption of this initiative's decision to adopt the Strategic Document for the Youth Area at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in order to enable the withdrawal of funds from IPA funds in the field of youth, and thus tasked the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs to undertake all necessary activities to take place as soon as possible, and not later than 30 days after the adoption of this initiative, the Commission for the Co-ordination of Youth Issues in Bosnia and Herzegovina", issue: 01-50-1175/20 of 5. 11. 2020. The House College has designated the Joint Commission on Human Rights and the Joint Committee on European Integration as responsible for considering this initiative. The Joint Committee on Human Rights delivered its opinion, the initiative was not accepted. The Joint Committee on European Integration has delivered its opinion, the Commission did not support the initiative. I'm opening an initiative debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the hearing at 35. 99 We move to point 36. Ad. 36. Consideration of Nenad Nešić's parliamentary initiative "in charge of the Council of Ministers of BiH to submit within 15 days to the PSBiH House of Representatives information on the measures taken in 2020 to tackle the economic damages caused by the COVID-19 pandemic", issue: 01-50-1-2177/20 of 5. 11. 2020.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8881	Thank you. So, first of all, I thank the fact that the Constitutional Commission supported this initiative with 7 votes "for" this initiative this morning, and I am really encouraged by the debate held at the Commission's session, and I thank the people of different parties, from both entities, here is Mr. Zlatan Begić, Mr. Nebojša Radmanović, Mr. Obren Petrović, Mr. Dragan Mektić, Mrs. Čolo, Alma Čolo, Mr. Safet Softić, Mr. Nermin Nikšić, who supported this initiative this morning, and she was adopted with 7 votes "for" on the Constitutional Legal Commission. So, from the text of the initiative itself, it's absolutely clear, this is a problem that exists throughout BiH, in both entities, in all environments, among all peoples. Streets, squares and schools, other 100 public areas, unfortunately for the shame of all BiH, and especially the local communities where we have such phenomena, today bear names for people who participated or collaborated with Nazi occupiers during World War II. So we're talking about the most marginal period, without any dilemma, the most painful period in the history of humanity, the age of Nazism, the age when a holocaust was committed. People who were on the side of the darkness or justified it have no place in public space in BiH, but that period has also produced enormously brave people, again in all parts of BiH, again among all the nations. People who in those times risked their lives to save their citizens from a certain death in the Holocaust. So this is crucial, therefore, the Yad Vashem Center in Jerusalem recognizes such people as righteouss among the nations, but it is not enough just to save someone to find themselves on the Yad Vashem centar list, to become a righteous man it is necessary, the necessary element is also to risk your life when you do it, 49 people from BiH have been given the honour of being righteous among the peoples to be recognized by Yad Vashem centar as such. Unfortunately, only rare among them, among these 49 people only rarely have streets and schools named after them in BiH today, it needs to be corrected, it is of course work, the tasks of local communities. There is absolutely no claim to take jurisdiction here, which is clearly local jurisdiction, we as a state parlametre can only ask them, and here I have even agreed with Mr Radmanović's proposal this morning on the Constitutional Commission to change the term "seek" to the term "propose" to the competent institutions at the entity, cantonal and municipal level to do so. The Constitutional Commission adopted the text with this amendment, so – we propose, as Mrs Krišto has read. Once again, I would like to thank these colleagues for their support of the Constitutional Commission this morning, and I would like to invite all of you to adopt this initiative in the same or even greater proportion with this amendment as it was adopted on the Constitutional Legal Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8882	Representative Nikola Lovrinović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8883	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So I'm one of those who didn't accept this initiative on the Constitutional Legal Commission because, therefore, my fellow promoter did not convince me that the intention was to resolve this issue, which is why he allegedly launched the initiative. So we are talking about the state parliament, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, helping people at all levels of government to solve one problem, which is a question called the streets and squares and irrelevant now, therefore, given by persons from BiH's history. So, we can't tell anyone, as the fellow promoter has told us, and we can't give anyone, uh, no name, no name, no name, but we suggest to them, therefore, that they intend to name some names that cause dissension among us or that offend some other or one person or members of the constituent people or any other or any other person. I, therefore, suggested that this be an initiative, since the BiH Parliamentary Assembly wants, therefore, to help resolve this issue, to propose that we get rid of all these names that offend someone through the history of BiH. So I suggested that, therefore, this initiative should also be added to its text, that people should be expelled, therefore, both the names of the squares and the streets and the persons who were members of the totalitarian and authoritarian regimes, which were therefore members of the occupation regimes in BiH and that, therefore, we would allow a wide range of diapazon of thinking to people who made decisions on this, and that we would thus prove ourselves as a Assembly, as a body, the names of BiH 101 who wanted to help the levels of one issue, seems sometimes not important, but very important, therefore, for the life of all BiH residents. So, I repeat again, I also suggested that I be a co-proposer of such an initiative, that she, she is welcome, she is commendable and she really needs help, hopefully, to these levels of authority that here's an amendment to what fellow Arnaut was talking about. However, it covers a very narrow period of time and has a trust in names and other names that also offend, and they originate far before these events, which are the subject of only these initiatives. I repeat again, so we're talking, and if that's the intention, but after that he didn't convince me, he didn't accept this proposal, that it was just talking about the names of the squares and the streets, so we're not talking about the qualifications of events. So I don't want to talk about it again, so it's a little clearer when we suggested that declaration why she didn't accept it. So, I don't want to talk about qualifications of greater, less guilt, greater crimes for humanity, bigger this, bigger one, I'm talking about the name of streets and squares, and why not put in such an initiative a possible possibility, so either our proposal, our suggestion to get out of those names and people who harm anyone in this country on any basis, and it happened in history. So, without qualifications, therefore, if in one local environment someone has a problem with the name of a square, the person who comes from the 17th century, from the time of the Austro-Hungarian occupation or from the time of the Turkish occupation, then let the people consider it, who decide to remove that name, put the name of the street and a square that will not bother anyone. Of course, what the colleague was talking about and what was foreseen in this initiative is also understood. So I got up to just say it, I'm still standing on the proposal, I won't be able to support it, I don't think it's just this problem, so there's still more problems, and I think that when we already wanted and had the good will to help people at lower levels of government, to suggest to them, here's how it's supposed to be and how it looks like the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, but to single out a period of history, so let's get to it and then get into the discussion stories that the regime, which is a major criminal, is this one, whether it's during that period or the one that's greatest in history, so we wouldn't talk about it at all. Anyway, here's what we suggest is that you discuss all the people and people you named the street and the square to move them, not to insult your other people, your neighbors and nothing else. I'm ready, I repeat, to have the text of the initiative to withdraw her colleague, again, so we propose together, I don't mind, if it's acceptable, if it isn't I can't support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8884	Representative Predrag Kožul, debate, here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8885	Very briefly, I welcome you, distinguished colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. I'm not going to talk about this initiative, I fully respect it, but I'm going to say one other initiative orally here, so if it's necessary for one next session and in writing. Namely, if you look at this list of Yad Vashem, is how this, these people, you will see that the name of the BiH state stands above it. This is an initiative according to, firstly, the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to respect the fact that, that this country is called Bosnia and Herzegovina and that we should strive in international relations that our country's name is everywhere on documents that are official, and this document is somehow official, the exact name of our country stands. Thank you. 102
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8886	I'd like to thank the representative. No more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We're moving on to point 38. Ad. 38. A review of Šemsudin Mehmedović's parliamentary initiative, which reads: "I am launching an initiative to restart public advertising, offer, select and adopt the text of Bosnia and Herzegovina's anthem, and finally to resolve this simple and very important issue to the satisfaction of all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina," issue 01-50-1-2306/20 of 30. 11. 2020. The College of the House was responsible for considering that initiative by the Constitutional Legal Commission, the committee responsible submitted its opinion, the Commission accepted the initiative. I'm opening a debate on this initiative. For the debate, Proposer, representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8888	Thank you, Madam Chairman. My colleagues and fellow MPs, very briefly. First of all, I thank the Constitutional Commission for supporting this initiative, and for your information on the 2010-2014 House of Representatives, we have brought this procedure to an end, and it happened right before the elections, that is, in this heat of political struggle in Parliament, that this initiative has been brought to an end and there has been a certain text of an anthem, so that only a statement has been preceded, and unfortunately, because of these poor political relations within the House of Representatives itself, this initiative has fallen. So please, here, through the renewal of this procedure, we come up with some kind of text that will be ours together and that will actually reflect our life in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8889	Thank you, counsel. For discussion, representative Sanja Vulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8890	Thank you, Chairman. Well, dear colleague Mehmedović, I honestly think that you have wronged the home to propose this initiative, I am saying that because the Federation of BiH has no coat of arms and flag since 2006, the Federation has no anthem, so I guess that should be resolved first. Why is it not debated here that the Federation has been illegally using the coat of arms and flag of BiH since the federal flag and coat of arms were lifted and when you see a memo there by the Federation, the coat of arms of BiH, you simply don't know whether it's a BiH document or a Federation of BiH. Whether this is a misleading and false representation, whether it is a potentially criminal act, whether it is a violation of the Law on the flag and coat of arms of 103 BiH, let it discuss this House, because it is actually a topic for this House, release the text of the anthem. We have an anthem as we have, applied, performed. The Federation has coat of arms, flag, anthem and seal, and other symbols decided by Parliament of the Federation, this stands clearly in the Constitution of the Federation, so since the Federation Parliament has not adopted the coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Federation, we now need to talk here about the text of the anthem. Let me remind you, in 2008, a commission for the selection of BiH's text was formed, not adopted, has not passed. If it's not then, why do you think we should do it today? Then came 339 envelopes with text proposals and none had received the support of all the peoples. You proposed a similar initiative to Mehmedović and 2016 and then did not receive support. In 2018, Canton of Sarajevo sent an initiative for the text of the anthem, as the chairman then vocalized and performed, not to say..., it would be good to have the technical services release this performance, to remind ourselves or who did not hear it. I remind you, that Španija, a powerful Španija, a member of the European Union, also has no anthem text and absolutely nothing is wrong with them, absolutely no problem present to them. I don't know what the motive is and what it will bring to us BiH citizens, who live in it, three peoples, this, and others, will it bring us progress, will it bring us improvement, will it bring us better communication? To tell you the truth, I don't believe it, I just think it'll bring a new incentive to quarrels, tensions and discord. Whether this is a recycling of the already proposed initiatives or by the system in each call let me suggest something at a time, so it remains to be seen, but what you're assuming is how I'm going to vote when it comes to this initiative of yours. And if you want my honest and personal opinion, which I don't believe you're very interested in, but I certainly do need to say, for me personally, the most beautiful anthem already exists, and it is "My Republic". Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8891	Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, correction of the wrong allegation, here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8892	Thank you. The correction of the wrong allegation applies, as known by colleagues Sanja Vuletić. I have not sinned, neither home nor initiative nor violated the Rules of Procedure on the work of this House, nor have I violated the BiH Constitution. kolegica Vuletić, Vulić pardon, You read, it seems to me in Article III of the BiH Constitution, which is what it is, what are the duties of entity governments when it comes to BiH, that is one thing. Secondly, this is not the Federation Parliament, nor am I a representative in the Federation Parliament, and therefore my initiative is fully in line with both the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution of BiH, and it is the same as it is, and I did not propose an anthem text, nor did I propose a commission, but I only submit an initiative to go into this procedure. What will be the end result in neither me nor you know, but I certainly think it would be good if this country, at least when our teams that have achieved significant results in the world, had performances, that we had at least an anthem text so that we wouldn't be ashamed of ourselves in front of the world public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8893	Advocacy Alma Čolo, correction of the wrong allegations, please welcome MPs. 104
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8894	I would like to correct the false allegations of Parliament's Member Sanja Vulić, who said that, if it were a possible criminal act of false representation of the Federation, we should have a debate in Parliament. Well, the criminal debate is not being conducted, if she thinks the Federation is committing a criminal act of false representation, which I don't think is possible, let her file a criminal report. But I'm very glad that you have your own anthem that you love very much and it's called, and here I heard for the first time, "My Republic", I know about your earlier "Bog of pravda" anthem in which I participated before the Constitutional Court and now I'm happy about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8895	Representative Sanja Vulić, correction of the wrong allegation.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8896	Thank you, Mrs. Krišto. I didn't say at all that there was to be a debate, uh, a criminal act, I said that I needed to discuss whether the Federation needed to use these symbols of ours, meaning state symbols. And when it comes to "My Republic", I love her very much and I'm very proud, and I'm even more glad that it bothers you so much that I love my anthem and that you yourself admit that you're proud to be involved in challenging our anthem "Bog of Justice". And Mr. Mehmedović, here's the answer, why we don't need this debate, here's because of this kind of tension, precisely because of this debate, and because of the fact that this text will eventually just lead us into even more chaos, disrespect, debate and so forth. And I don't see on what basis we need to be ashamed of our team and so forth, we have an anthem, I know, I don't know what else is but an anthem before the beginning of every Parliament, we stand up and honor our country's anthem, etc. If one Španija, which for many reasons precedes BiH, has no basis to be ashamed of, because there is no anthem text, there is only music, I don't know what the problem is why we are better and something, I don't know what we should be, more proud of Spain, and we should have text and be ashamed of ourselves because we don't have it. I am absolutely not ashamed of anything, nor do I think we have anything to be ashamed of, and I believe that this anthem as it is with this tune is only right and only that it can preserve peace and stability on this issue in our country.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8897	We don't have any more logs. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We're moving on to point 39. Ad. 39. A review of Alma Čolo's parliamentary initiative, which reads: "I propose that the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, in accordance with Article 29. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives ('The Official Messenger of BiH', No. 79/14, 81/15, 97/15, 78/19 and 26/20), appoints the Interim Commission for the Construction of the Proposal for a Law on State Property of Bosnia and Herzegovina", number: 01-50-1-2516/20 of 30. 12. 2020. 105 The House College has been responsible for considering the above-mentioned initiative by the Constitutional Commission, the committee responsible has delivered its opinion, the commission has adopted a modified initiative which now reads: I propose that the BiH Council of Ministers be tasked with delivering within six months of the adoption of this initiative and in the legislative procedure the draft law on the state property of BiH. I'm opening an initiative debate. For the debate, the motioner of the initiative, MP Alma Čolo, please welcome MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8899	Thank you, Chairman. As you said, I modified the initiative after the debate on the Constitutional Legal Commission, it was originally my idea that this House set up a committee that would prepare within six months the Law on State Property, which would regulate the issue of governance, availability and use of state property. Given that BiH has the laws of the High Representative on the ban on state property both at the state level and at the level of both entities, and the Constitutional Court in its Decision No. U 1/11, means from 2011, it made a decision stating that BiH was the only one empowered under its Constitution to adopt the Law on State Property and that only the issue of state property is exclusively related to the continuity and sovereignty of the BiH state, and that there is a positive obligation for the BiH Parliament to pass the law. And so I suggest, here's how you suggested on the Constitutional Legal Commission, that we put the Council of Ministers in charge, given that it's a big deal, the deadline I've proposed is six months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8900	There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We're moving to point 40. Ad. 40. A review of Alma Čolo's parliamentary initiative, which reads: "I propose that the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, in accordance with Article 29. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives ('The Official Messenger of BiH', No. 79/14, 81/15, 97/15, 78/19 and 26/20) appoints the Interim Commission for the Making of Amendments to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in order to comply with the European Court of Human Rights rulings in the cases of Sejdić and Finci, Pilav, Zornić, Šlaku and Pudarić against Bosnia and Herzegovina and the judgments of the Constitutional Court of BiH relating to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law, issue: 01-50-1-2517/20 of 30. 12. 2020. The House College has designated the Constitutional Commission to consider that initiative, the committee responsible has delivered its opinion, the Commission has not accepted the initiative. 106 I am opening an initiative debate. For the debate, Proposer, MP Alma Čolo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8902	Thank you. All known issues, one of the EU's key priorities, need to be brought into line with the Constitution and election legislation of BiH primarily with the judgment of Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci, which has been in the red zone since 2009, and on the list of the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers, which is responsible for the execution of the European Court of Human Rights, because over ten years we have not respected that verdict, and this verdict and its non-implementation systematically leads to new violations of human rights that have been established in other judgments of Zornić, Pilav, Šlaku and Pudarić against BiH. And of course, the rulings of the BiH Constitutional Court relating to the Election Law are our obligations, and I propose that a commission be formed to work on amendments to the Constitution and amendments to the BiH Election Law.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8903	Thank you. There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate on the agenda. We're moving on to point 41. Ad. 41. Discussing Denis Zvizdić parliamentary House of BiH's Parliamentary Assembly tasks the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, without delay, to start direct talks on the acquisition of vaccines for the most endangered categories of Bosnia and Herzegovina population with companies that have received the approval of the European Commission for the production and distribution of coronary virus vaccines (COVID-19), given the existence of certain announcements that, for procedural reasons, our accession to the COVID-19 (COVAX) will not bring the expected results, and that we will be among the last Member States to receive the vaccine. At the same time, a 70m-euro package should be activated as soon as possible for early access to coronary vaccines (COVID-19), approved for Western Balkan countries under the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA II).), number: 01-50-1-15-2520/20 of 29. 12. 2020. The House College has designated the Joint Committee on Human Rights to consider this initiative, the Joint Commission has delivered its opinion, the Committee has adopted the initiative and has referred it to the follow-up procedure. I'm opening an initiative debate. For discussion, Comrade Zvizdić, Proposer, please welcome your colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8905	Hello again to all the honourable MPs and MPs. Today we talked a lot about this topic, I see that a lot of MPs are interested in this topic, I have now seen an initiative which, in writing, is the same as the initiative or one 107 conclusions, and the esteemed representative Lovrinović. This means that the topic is current, and I would ask you to pay attention to two facts that can help us understand the problem we are facing well or better, perhaps in a fact that will in some way convince you to vote for this initiative and that will help us to come up with the best and most effective way to quickly obtain the necessary vaccine for BiH citizens. So, BiH a few days ago, about ten days ago was the fourth country of the world by the death of the bird virus, of course the numbers are constantly changing, so we can't say for sure, but quite, the fourth or fifth, it's certainly among the ten countries of the world, which, looking proportionally at the number of inhabitants, is the largest mortality of the herds. BiH has as many as 1,263 people died of coronaryvirus ten days ago, 15 days ahead of us were only Belgium, Slovenia and San Marino, and immediately after Italy and Spain. So we are facing a very serious problem, a high level of the infected inhabitants of BiH and a high level of mortality from coronary viruses. On the other hand, at this point in time BiH depends solely on the Kovaks instrument, we have, of course, heard data today that Republika Srpska is also negotiating about the purchase of a Russian vaccine, but we do not have enough detailed data, so we must attach ourselves to this Kovaks instrument, but we are all aware that the purchase of vaccines through this instrument will go much slower than would go through direct negotiations or bilateral agreements with EU countries or the conclusion of a direct contract with manufacturers and distributors of vaccines. One of the reasons is that the Kovaks instrument participates in this moment over 170 countries in the world, no country will have exclusivity, so the information we receive from such an instrument, the delivery of vaccines will go succesively in phases, although of course we have some information that diplomats of stronger countries are doing their job and are first on the list in such, within that mechanism. It is true that BiH has ordered and paid a million and 230 thousand doses within the Kovaks instrument, which, according to the relevant experts, is enough for 615 thousand BiH citizens or for about 20% of the population, but we also know that at least 60% of the population must be vaccinated for the state to have collective immunity. And that is why, and because of the fact that other countries of our region, which are not EU members, such as Serbia, Albania, Northern Macedonia, etc. The same participants in the Kovaks instrument decided to go to direct negotiations and bilateral talks and thus to obtain the vaccine for the most vulnerable categories of the population. The information I have is that Albania has concluded an agreement to get part of the EU's dose from Poland, that it has done the same thing to Montenegro, that Northern Macedonia has agreed with Bulgaria, and in this sense BiH will practically remain the only country outside the EU and the only country in the region that will not have an alternative way to obtain a vaccine for the medical workers and all the most vulnerable categories in BiH, because while waiting for the Kovaks instrument and the selective supply of vaccines in this dynamic, it means that in two years we cannot achieve this level of vaccination of the population, immunisation between 50, 60% which would give us collective immunity. And finally another important fact, which is that there is a huge likelihood that many EU countries will introduce a covid or so on. Green passports, for example, are already considering such laws in the parliamentary procedure, have already been directed by the governments of France and Austria, which means that if we do not vaccinate, that our citizens will not be able to get these passports, they will not be able to travel to EU countries, and they will almost all introduce similar laws like Austria and France, and that this means that we will be left without a visa-free regime in which they can enjoy and have the privileges of BiH citizens. That is why this initiative is very important and of course the Council of Ministers can lead it, because contact point for BiH, for the World Health Organization, is the Ministry of Civil Affairs. So, the Ministry of Civil Affairs and the Council of Ministers are co-ordinators of the overall public health system in BiH, and the international contracts through which we can obtain this cannot achieve and negotiate entities, or cantons, but only the BiH state. Because of that 108, I believe that this initiative is extremely important in order for medical workers and the most vulnerable categories, those who are directly at risk, to receive a vaccine in the amount that can guarantee us collective immunity. Of course, we can't compare, I don't know, with Israel that vaccines 150,000 citizens daily, but we can compare with countries in our region that are not EU members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8906	Thank you. Controversy, Representative Predrag Kožul, here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8907	Thank you. Here I must really thank my colleague Zvizdić for running for this initiative at today's session, because it is not only the fact that it is the most important topic in, not only in BiH, but probably in all the countries of Europe and the world, the most important topic not only from a hearty point of view, but also from economic, social and each other. It is also clear in the focus of the public, it is already said, not only because of this importance but also because of the fact that neighbouring countries are already getting us the vaccine, the truth in symbolic quantities, which everyone is likely to have more psychologically than health effects in them, but here is the reason why the public focus on this topic. As you know, and you got probably on the tables, we, as a Club of HDZ Representatives, proposed some changes to this initiative by Zvizdić. No, I know it's not common, and perhaps even polite to intervene in colleagues' initiatives, but because, precisely because of the importance of the topic and the desire to reach a consensus on this topic in this House and in this way, we have contributed in a certain way to resolving this topic within the limits of our competences and possibilities we have proposed a few changes that I will try to explain here very briefly. In fact, here we are, instead of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, putting focus on the Council of Ministers in the initiative for one simple reason, which seems to us that this, that this important topic should not only be put on the burden of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, although it is a focus partner of the World Health Organization, but this topic also has contact with the Ministry of Finance, and certainly total with the Council of Ministers. The second thing we went to, just what my colleague Zvizdić said in some way, introduced the concept of coordination. Therefore, it is necessary to co-ordinate with the competent entity ministries regarding the rapid purchase of vaccines for the most vulnerable categories of the BiH population through direct negotiations. The reason for this is simply constitutional jurisdiction. We know that constitutional competences, that health care is divided constitutional jurisdiction between entities and counties, cantons, and that is why, as far as I know, the entity ministries have already moved far away with certain talks and is indeed from the level of the Council of Ministers, and the Ministry of Civil Affairs is operationally needed coordination and, of course, later if it is necessary to participate directly in these affairs, if there is no other way to make certain purchases and thus participate. It seems to me that this formulation is happier and that it will cause a consensus on this decision in this House, which is important to me. When we talk about a very important EU package in the IPA II programme, it is good to give the information we have fresher compared to the information at the time when counterpart Zvizdić 109 proposed the initiative. I have information from the Ministry of Civil Affairs that, after his assignment on 29.12 from the Council of Ministers, he is 30.12. The Ministry of Civil Affairs sent an act to the Directorate for European Integration and that the act was forwarded to Brussels on 05.01. The next intervention in this initiative was on the trail of what counterpart Stevandić proposed today as a possible special conclusion. Again, we have information that the BiH Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices has not received any demands so far regarding imports of vaccines and this one, and all to obtain it is unlikely to have adequate laboratories or equipment to do the job. That is why indeed in the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices and has this precedent in Article 38 which is likely to need to be used, and that is where we have installed the Council of Ministers, given our known co-ordination between the Council of Ministers and this Medicines Agency, so that we think that this is a happier formulation and I would be really happy to accept this kind of change by consensus or by one large majority of votes in this House. I say, as our humble, but within the limits of our jurisdiction, an important contribution to solving this important topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8908	Thank you, counsel. Here is my colleague, Zvizdić, as the promoter, reporting on the proposal to modify this initiative. Here you go, Comrade Zvizdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8909	I thank my esteemed colleague, Kožul. I accept your initiatives, and I suggest that we now switch off these two initiatives in some way and make one joint initiative that we will finally come forward with. Here, we'll ask the secretary to do it before the plea, to read us the integral text of my initiative and your additions.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8910	Thank you, Comrade Zvizdić. No more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Before we move to point 42, I suggest we bring together the discussion of points 42 to 44 because it is about giving consent to ratifying material. We vote on the unification of points 42 to 44. Of the 35 present – for 32, no objection, abstention 3. We have a general, and there's an entity majority. I find that we have united the debate on points 42 to 44. 110 Points 42 to 44. Ad. 42. - Ad. 44. Granting consent to ratification of the agreement The Committee for Foreign Affairs delivered its opinion, the Commission gave the opinion that the previous conditions had been met that the House of Representatives would give consent to ratification. I'm opening a debate on points 42 to 44. There are no reports at this time. I'm closing the debate at points 42 to 44. We have exhausted today’s agenda for the 15th session of the House of Representatives. It's 8:20 a.m., would you agree to take a vote by 20:45, is that enough? That's 25 minutes, if we're effective, I hope we can make it. Thank you very much. I'll see you here at 20:45. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8919	You Morte point out which conclusion we are voting on exactly. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8920	Number one conclusion, which is why I'm asking, the conclusion that we're looking for, yes. 119 Please repeat the vote because my colleague Mirjana asked for it. If the House of Representatives asked the Council of Ministers to rule out a conclusion he adopted at an extraordinary session in the first session, this is the first one. Do it again. Of the 35 present – for 10, against 6 abstentions 19. There is a general, but there is no entity majority in Republika Srpska's entity. Shall we go to the second round now? I suggest, or you won't? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] You won't, okay, we'll leave then. We are going to propose the conclusion of Representative Jasmin Ermić's number 2: To amend the decision to determine temporary reception centres first urgently. Let's get to the bottom of this conclusion. Of the 35 present – for 12, against 8, abstentioned 15. There is a general, but there is no entity majority in Republika Srpska's entity. Shall we go to the second round now? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8940	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-11-0.u8941	Just a little bit, which has been modified on the proposal of the HDZ Club and whose modification is agreed. Please give us the vote now, because we are not to the end. Repeat our vote. Of the 35 present – for 31, against 1 127 [[Common discussion]] You want us to do it again? [[Common discussion]]
