ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-28-0.u10867	Okay, I suggest we get started. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, distinguished guests, members of the BiH Council of Ministers, I welcome the opening of a session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. Now we'll hear Bosnia and Herzegovina's anthem. At today's session, apart from representatives and high representative for BiH, Mr Kristijan Šmit, whom we warmly welcome, we welcome him to the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, representatives of the member states of the Board of Directors for Peace Implementation were also invited. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] I would also like to remind you that a direct and direct TV transmission of this session has been provided. Once again, I would like to welcome the high representative, as well as all the guests at today's session. At this point it's filled with quorum and we can normally start working. As indicated in your invitation, the session was called in line with the House College's decision in the extended composition and the call for a session indicated that representatives of the Parlementary Assembly of BiH would be addressed by the High Representative for BiH, Mr Kristijan Šmit. I now call upon the high representative, Mr Šmit, to address the House of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-28-0.u10868	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the opportunity to address you today, and I would like to welcome the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm sure you'll notice that I've been practicing your language a little bit, but I still have a lot of work to do, thank you very much, Mr. Chairman and Vice President, dear fellow Members of Parliament. In democracy, parliament is the right place to show respect to all people without division, so here somehow I feel at home in three contexts. The first is that as much as Tuesday and I handed over my mandate to the elected representative in the German parliament, over 31 years has lasted so that I have a lot of experience, I see that you are actually more modern than the German Parliament, we do not have such screens, where we see whether the quorum is full or not, and we probably have some different traditions, one is, however, the same Parliament comes from the Latin word parlalare – to speak, speak and hear and exchange opinions and when they are different, because we do not want to have a huge set of people in which a thousand people sit, and all just applaud at the same time. We're the ones who share a good experience of democracy, sometimes it's hard not very encouraging, you've probably been through a hard time yourself, I've been in power and in opposition and I know what it's like. And the second reason I feel at home here is because I got a really warm welcome here and two here and in the region and I'm going to say that it's not just about the Federation, and I thank those who gave me good ideas, good advice, good wishes and in Republika Srpska. The third reason I feel at home is because your country deserves to survive and live, it is something more complex, but it is also something living because of the history and tradition of this country that cannot be compared to others. You have almost a thousand years of history, in those thousand years there have been better and worse times, so you're here, and I'm sure you agree, to contribute to better times in the future, I'm not just talking about what happened 25 or 30 years ago, but to make sure that it's not just about the truce, it's about society and the political climate. My intention was to address you after my first hundred days as high representative, almost to the moment, I sincerely hoped it would be under more positive circumstances, but in the meantime, there were circumstances that were known to everyone. Unfortunately, not all MPs are here, but I hope they will attend, as well as use, that they will use this opportunity in the future to exchange views. I took this role to oversee and ensure the implementation of the civilian aspects of the General Framework Agreement for Peace, which I was asked to do. They asked me to because I had the opportunity to have several responsibilities that include contacts with your country, not only her, five, eight years I was also Minister of Defence of my country so that I came to your country and to Butmir, among other things, to camp in terms of co-operation and state building. I'm not gonna say it's up to me, I didn't make much of a contribution, but we tried to contribute when I was a minister for other areas. I remember well when we had a situation when Bosnia and Herzegovina was in danger of another pandemic moving into it, it was an animal pandemic when we had to kill cattle, so we worked together with the European Union to contain that pandemic. Now I've taken another role, but another engagement, I've received a lot of congratulations not only from this country, and some have told me that you know you're taking one of the most complicated positions in this region, but I have to say that they were wise words. But I think we have to work to move on, using all the instruments, but what's important is that by building Europe, we can't just stand by and wait and do nothing, because the world goes on. If, perhaps, you are aware that a COP26 climate conference on climate development is beginning in Glasgow these days, and that is something that determines the future and this country to keep this world sustainable and positive, even for the citizens of this country. When I arrived on August 1st, people welcomed me, many of them, for which I am grateful, invite critics to share. It is better for responsible people to talk, debate and decide instead of commenting on each other in the media. By the way, I remember well the friend Žan-Klod-Claude Junker of the President of the European Commission, he was once criticised because the meetings of the Council of the European Union were so long and I had this experience myself, sometimes you sit all night, you talk about fishing and then people say is it really worth sitting down and talking about? Žan-Klod-Claude Junker told me, you know, I come from these long sessions often, I don't have this ability of Helmut kolo who used to sit and wait endlessly, no one could leave as long as he was here and then he told his father I came to Luxembourg, I talked to him and complained – ah the European Union and those meetings, it made me so nervous. I didn't say that. Žan-Klod-Claude Junker said that. And his father told him—you know what, I was, living in one time when we shot at each other, so just sit back and talk to each other. And that is their message for our generation. So I'm glad to be in one place right now where we're talking and looking for solutions. At the time, I couldn't expect in August that BiH would soon face one of the biggest objections to its sovereignty since the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement in '95. I have met many of you and the leaders of your political parties in that period and thank you for all constructive information talks. I have heard your assessments of the situation, of some of the proposals as well, also met with political leaders in neighbouring countries because good neighbourly relations are 3 key, especially in this region and because these leaders can influence constructive dialogue. I've also traveled to several key capitals, I won't list them all now, but those in the Peace Implementation Council Management Board are very active, I was in Paris, Brussels, The Hague, Ankara, Washington, London, Berlin, Rome, and I've prepared to go to Moscow. I used these meetings to inform senior officials responsible for the Western Balkans about the situation in BiH, and I assure you that they are closely following the issue, but we all have to work to keep them, this country still on their radar. Yes, the international community has many other concerns around the world, but our common interest is to contribute to the peaceful development of events in the Western Balkans, especially in BiH, at a meeting in Slovenia of the European Union it is clear. I am going to New York next week to address the UN Security Council in the context of a report I recently submitted to the Secretary-General, which represents an effective and honest assessment of the current state of affairs. In times like these, I understand well that many BiH citizens have doubts about their own future and the future of the country, elected and responsible people at the state, entity, cantonal level must work to convince everyone of a peaceful and common future in a country that respects the rights of all. The international community that intervened in reaching the Peace Agreement and the High Representative, who was appointed to, to harass its implementation, take it very seriously. But it cannot happen without you, without those who have democratic responsibility for this country. So I see my position, of course, with all those powers agreed by the international community, but of course with the urge to achieve as much as possible on the side, out of the public eye. And I assure you that the international community is engaged and that it is considering all available options, but although I still have powers under my mandate, I would not speculate on possible interventions. How did we come by this situation? Unfortunately, there was not much constructive dialogue in Parliament during this term, the number of laws passed, and you also know that, it was minimal. I am not the one who says that the best parliament is the one that adopts the largest number of laws, but the key issues on which there must be an agreement they are necessary, we need to focus on them and in this sense the results must be better. I would say the same about the Council of Ministers, with all due respect to those who are in that composition, because it is part of a negative trend that has been going on since 2010, and now we are in a position that some elected representatives have gone or chosen to participate selectively and thus paralyzed Parliament, it is not in line with the oath taken by each elected representative and could compromise voter confidence. By the way, and it's not a high representative's comment, but, I would say, one experienced MP and member of the government, all those who are trying to tell some stories, not to focus on real challenges in the end line won't get support. You know better than me, which are challenges in this country, it's about young generations, it's about economics, and if you agree, I often hear about discussions about whether it's better this way or that way, this or that solution, instead of talking about concrete things how to get closer to the European Union and improve the life of my citizens. I would take the opportunity to mention that today is October 28th and that the state budget for 2021 has not yet been adopted, and temporary funding is only in effect until December. Yes, it can be said that there is a provision in Dayton on temporary financing that is not limited to three months, but the fact that the budget has not been adopted, before July, says we really have to work on it, it is a reliable financing of state institutions. I was surprised when I learned that entities, probably both cantons and states get some fixed amounts, that they don't have to do some tasks for that, it's a big surprise. I come from a country that has 16 provinces, I know how complicated it is, how difficult it is to reach an agreement, but I think there's a need to talk openly about how to get to a fair distribution. 4 Let's say the defense, it's the state's task, it has to be financed at the state level, and I would really appeal to everything, and you know what I mean, I'm appealing and I'm saying it's not the right way and it's not going to happen. I think it is better that money follows tasks, not that the tasks follow money, and that trend directly challenges the state's ability to meet its constitutional and legal obligations to meet its obligations effectively and effectively. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs who are not present here today in July decided to leave the state institutions by objecting to my predecessor's decision to amend and supplement the BiH Criminal Law that sanctions the denial of genocide and war crimes and the splendor of convicted war criminals, what I absolutely don't understand is that someone is blocking a parliament that is the right place for talks – what is that attitude? There have been some misinformation on these amendments, they are in line with the EU Framework Decision of November 2008 on the suppression of certain forms and expressions of racism and xenophobia through criminal provisions. I must make it clear that this does not apply only to one genocide or war crime or, most importantly, to only one nation, these amendments serve victims, members of families of victims without prejudice, and you know better than I do the history of this region. I'm Nijemac, I know what it's about, and I think it's necessary that the victims, the victims, have a valuable memory. Moreover, they reflect laws adopted by every Western Balkan state. What I have observed is not the law itself and the discussions on how to deal with this issue, because I will indeed contribute to the classification of this law and to return... responsible politicians were those Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak or Francuz, Poljak2 have an unforgivable task of turning to a bright, peaceful future, it is difficult and believe that I as a Nijemac know it very well, but please do not think about the past, and that does not mean that this country is successful in the future. I have some information about this law, classifications that might help everyone to turn to the future and I call on young people to contribute to this necessary discussion, not only among politicians, but generally in society, because what is really missing and where we must encourage those in parliament with different opinions, but also in society to talk openly about the past. It's not easy and you don't have to hide anything, but you need to prepare to make good conclusions for the future, that's what's most important. I'd like to get another chance to work with both you and the OSCE and the Council of Europe, and others on exactly what to do in this country. The MPs left BiH institutions, including this House, this most important law-reviewing body right at the time when it should be discussed, discussed and created an over-needed reform regulation that would benefit every citizen and draw the country forward on the road to the EU. Giving up and leaving, endangering the future of citizens, which this body represents, is not an option. I met with some Social Democrats, I remember Helmut Venera who was the first chair of their club in the German parliament, he had a debate in parliament and came out of parliament, he said – whoever comes out has an obligation to return. So, it's an inevitable task in the sense of Dayton. The same applies to the issue of state property, the BiH Constitutional Court ruled that the state is the head of state and military property and that the Parliamentary Assembly has the exclusive responsibility to regulate the distribution of that property by adopting the law on state property. We need to look for solutions that will respect the structure of the state, state level, entities, municipalities, etc. I am sure that together with the EU and the international community, we can find good solutions that will be sustainable and that will respond to climate change first in this Parliament. On this occasion, the court confirmed the successive rulings so that the recent decisions on this matter should not be surprising and note that the decisions of the Constitutional Court are final and binding, as clearly prescribed by the BiH Constitution, namely Annex IV of the Peace Agreement. And again, I say, the solution to the problem is here, come to the institutions, come to the Assembly, you know the law that will solve this issue 5 in accordance with the judgments of the court and over. I can only tell you one way that it can work, only to say that it is my property, I have found no basis to confirm it, so it is a case in BiH and I am very clear to me the whole situation, so that it should be addressed to responsible authorities, those in Republika Srpska to return to follow regulations, to comply with regulations, and that is my goal as part of programme 5+2 and resolving this issue would move BiH not one but two degrees forward towards the end of international supervisory. I invite you, therefore, colleagues who are not here today to start dealing with these issues. It is unacceptable for institutions to be hostages and to try to undo any positive reform that has been achieved over the past 26 years and a lot has been achieved. It is also important to remember that people who are on the other side of the table are not your enemy, nor your rival, but your citizen, so find a way to work together. Speaking of reforms, let's just remind ourselves of a few reforms that have been implemented and that most people take for granted... and that they want to undo now. Standing in line for hours ahead of visas is a matter of the past, you no longer have to do this, since 2010, biometric passports with modern security features allow every BiH citizen to travel to the EU without a visa. Who will go and explain to citizens, not politicians, in Banja Luka that those who want to travel and who want to have a new passport will probably be able to go to one or two countries and nowhere else. So this is a success that one of my predecessors has achieved, and I'm very strict about it, it's something that you don't have to play politics on, because people have the right to go, not those who just want to decide because they have an advantage. So I'm very strict here. Thanks to the 2008 Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, adopted by this House, a state-level agency has been established to ensure the availability, efficiency and safety of modern medicines throughout the country in line with EU standards, I have also benefited from the fact and those around me. What is this, what kind of policy is it just to end, to disband a pantyhose institution, which is why, for, for the sake of people's health, why? So, don't misjudge the situation, I need to see responsibility, not only my responsibility, but you in your country, in your country, in your state, in the state bodies, in Parliament have decided to take care of the state of health of citizens, and that is something that I really keep very, very much account for. I want maturity shown and so far there have been some extraordinary shifts in the National Assembly of Republika Srpska. Yeah, what do you want now, you want safe drugs or you want politics? I'd say 99% of people would say they want safe medications, so let's do it. It wasn't that long ago, but now in 2021, it's hard to remember that there were still three armies in BiH once, such a situation was in the country 11 years after Dejton until the defence reform resulted in the joint Armed Forces of BiH, which allowed the country to better ensure its own security and reduce its international military presence at the level at which it is today, the return will not be. Additional useful reforms include the establishment of the Directorate for Direct Taxation, the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, the State Investigation and Protection Agency and the State Border Service, all of which contributed to the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and shows that this Parliament is capable of bringing positive changes, thank you. It is clear that unilateral cancellation of any of these or many other reforms would mean a serious setback for BiH, jeopardising not only its path to the EU, but also its stability and future economic growth, who would invest in such a country. What can we say about economic development? The good news is that I have met many people in this region and across BiH and no one has any interest in assisting and developing a further crisis situation. 6 Yes, we can say that Dejton is not perfect, I am not here, nor are we all here to create such a, such perfection. However, Annex IV, amendments to the Constitution, requires participation and finding of new structures. However, the transfers of power have been passed in the spirit of Dayton and in some ways is the original Dejton, as some like to say, in some ways and completed so that they have benefited from it both people and citizens and others. First, I would like to underline here that this country is made up of entities and will remain so because it is part of territorial integrity and sovereignty as formed in the Dayton Agreement. No Niko who wants to talk about disintegration of the state thinks they're not going to be able to realise it again, and clearly no one has any interest in taking the clock back, it's not in anyone's interest. The international community will not just not sit by and watch what happens, any attempt to destroy the shifts made for 26 years, of course, will not be accepted. As high representative, I invite you to work with me and I call you not to... I am not someone who came to dominate, but to be here and work to reduce current tensions and open the door to dialogue. Citizens deserve a peaceful and prosperous future, what they don't deserve is fear, fear of war, of instability, of economic difficulties. The fear and division atmosphere will only speed up the exodus of young people from BiH who are already leaving because of corruption and lack of rule of law. Yes, I know, I've had the opportunity to meet one of them who returned to BiH after being out in the 1990s, that's good and I would encourage others, we in the European Union have to work intensively to do this, especially my concern that young people, that young people stay here because BiH needs capable people. I'm very impressed, I get letters from German companies and they write – can you please send me 20 young people who will work at my company in Cologne. I say -- well there are rules, there are structures, there are embassies dealing with these issues. However, it is not my task, my task is to contribute that people can say – I want to stay here, because my standard of living is good, my expectations of the rule of law are fulfilled. So that's where I came here and I've seen some things that give me hope, some bridges, kindergartens and other things are open, so we can tell our kids to stay here, stay here, travel around the world, gather experiences, but contribute to the work of this country. Probably someone will say what kind of visionary, what kind of picture he's painting of us, but I come from my country who also had a very complicated period in his history, '88. If someone had told me that my country would be reunited and that it would be a completely peaceful country, I wouldn't believe it. Helmut Šmit the German Chancellor who spoke – if you have visions you do not need to stay in politics better, unless you have a vision do not be in politics but be a doctor. So we have these visions, we have responsibility for younger generations, and that concerns us all, us and our children, our grandchildren. So that's what we have to work on, and I think that with your help, with the help of the EU, with a stable currency that exists and with essentially good economic prospects, there is an opportunity for us to succeed. To be clear, as far as disintegration and dissuasion of competences and sovereignty and territorial integrity of one Bosnia and Herzegovina are concerned, these are not real issues, it must stop, it's too simple, there are too many stakes. We're fed up with peace and stability and I'm, I'm very sensitive that such rhetoric doesn't become reality. I am personally prepared to engage with you, with any of you, with any outsider, with any political party to find a solution and I will continue to meet with you, with representatives of civil society, I will tour the capitals, I will tour the region, I will talk to people across BiH, and we will seek a unique solution to the task ahead of us. This involves eradicating corruption, strengthening the rule of law, speeding up the development of the economy, repairing the social services, implementing constitutional reforms, various other measures that will lead to trust among people, EU recommendations where, by the way, the latest report says that none of the 14 priorities has been fully met, so that I invite all of us together to work on it and to work on everything we need to lead this country further and not allow it to go back then we will come closer to the moment when the Office of the High Representative will be able to say that democracy 7 is strengthened in BiH, but that it is not a paradise. However, that we can see prospects for a good future in which there will be no need for the existence of a high representative and international assistance, so I am working on these issues, therefore, not to stay here my whole life. I'm working on it, because this country deserves us to do it together. Thank you very much, and I'll see you again.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-28-0.u10869	I thank... sir, Mr Šmit will now be open to and ready to answer a few questions, I must say that there is one kind of, here I say, collegiate agreement between the club heads, that in front of the parliamentary club at the club's House of Representatives or someone from that club asks one question to the distinguished High Representative Kristijan Šmit, so he will listen to these questions. I ask Mr. Šmit to sit down, wait, you sit down and hear questions, and then you'll come out again. We'll hear all the questions first, and then Mr. High Representative will answer those questions. Here, I'll give the first word to Mr. Osmanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-28-0.u10870	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Vice-President, colleagues and fellow MPs, the distinguished High Representative, Mr Šmit, representatives of the international community. First of all, I would like to welcome you on behalf of the MPs of the Party of Democratic Action, to welcome your wish to address this high house. We have listened very carefully to your presentation, I am convinced that the Bosnian Herzegovina public has also listened very carefully to your presentation and your intentions on how the OHR will move. I'd like to ask you just one question, I'd like you to give us a very precise and clear answer. What else needs to happen in our country of BiH to protect the Dayton Peace Agreement, Annex IV, an attempt to bring down the constitutional order in accordance with aneks x to the powers of the High Representative and the Bosnian Authority? I'll dati you a brief explanation. We have witnessed in the past few months, unfortunately, as never before, that in the smaller Bosnian-Herzegovina entity of Republika Srpska we have an open attempt to bring down the Dayton Peace Agreement and attempt to unilaterally transfer jurisdiction from the state to the Republika Srpska entity. You have also touched on these topics in your presentation, recently the National Assembly of Republika Srpska has passed a Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, which seeks to fully disenfranchise the Agency for Medicinal Products on a state-level basis. SNSD senior official Milorad Dodik's statements that they have prepared defence laws, on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, on the SIPA, on the OSA, which is also an attempt to unilaterally transfer jurisdiction from the state to entity level, which contributes to the weakening of the economic, security and military situation in BiH. We expect, here, a direct and concrete answer to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-28-0.u10871	Thank you very much. In front of the SDP Club, Mr. Magazinović. Here you go. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-28-0.u10872	I thank the chairman. Obviously, all or at least the largest number of us will ask the same or similar question to Mr Šmit, but here are just two findings in, therefore, repeating the SDP's position. First, for us, the key reform in this country is the reform of the judiciary, which, unfortunately, was not much of a speech today, but we understand that the moment is as it is and the reform of the judiciary will be over, that is, we will know that it is over when politicians stop being the ones who run people from the judiciary, but become the subject of justice and trial. I think it also applies to the current moment and to the judiciary and how it can seek a solution. The second stance on the Electoral Law you spoke of is that it is not an option to negotiate an Electoral Law until the work of BiH institutions that ultimately need the electoral law to adopt is normal, we cannot pretend that everything is okay. And the question, given the sufficient tolerance and willingness to negotiate with those who destabilise the state and take anti-Dayton moves, which has never resulted in anything good but on the contrary by repeating and escalating similar moves, please answer us – are you ready to fully consume your mandate to protect, first of all, the security of the citizens and ensure the smooth functioning of the BiH state institutions? This issue, which is for a variety of reasons, and lately most of the fear has been raised by the largest number of BiH citizens, is thought to deserve, first because of them, and then because of us here in the hall, a very clear and precise answer. I don't think there's a need for an explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-28-0.u10873	Thank you. In front of the DF Club, Mr. Dženan Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-28-0.u10874	I thank the chairman, good afternoon, everyone. In the entity parliament, the National Assembly of Republika Srpska is undergoing the abolition of state laws and state institutions and will continue, according to announcements, including the Armed Forces of BiH. For everything that will happen in BiH in the coming period, primary responsibility will have or have domestic judicial institutions, but also the post of High Representative for BiH. Are you aware that in the event of a breach of security and peace in BiH and new human victims, what can you imagine because of the non-compliance with the General Framework Agreement on BiH and the non-compliance with the obligations of the OHR Office of Annex X of this Agreement and you, at the position of the High Representative for BiH, can bear not only moral and political responsibility but also legal responsibility for everything that can happen in this case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-28-0.u10875	Thank you. In front of the HDZ Club, the club chief, Mr. Lovrinović. Here you go. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-28-0.u10876	Good afternoon, thank you. Dear Mr. Šmit, therefore, this... is not a question, but here you can comment, if you consider it necessary. So, on occasion I actually present to you at this moment some of my thoughts and attitudes which I hope will welcome you in your work. In BiH, it is increasingly a practice to withdraw official moves, attend various formal meetings, schedule formal sessions of the body, present views and the like, which are not agreed at all, nor agreed in accordance with existing procedures. Unfortunately, this session is not scheduled in accordance with the current provisions of the Rules of Procedure. I will only list some drastic examples of the infringement mentioned above. For example, the action of Minister Turković is mostly past the envisaged procedure, the performance of the presidency member Komšić in New York also, Mr. Zvizdić's letter yesterday, Mr. Izetbegović, Brisel and so on. Unfortunately, I must conclude that, first of all, or finally, officials of the Bosniak people do so, in this way, and acting on certain duties, create the perception that they or what they are doing are actually a state, and all others are remethylatic factors. It is important that you know every official session, every official appearance, every official visit and conversation on behalf of the BiH authorities has a planned and agreed procedure, which is unfortunately broken today. Another problem is the increasingly frequent presentation of the moves and decisions made by the House of Representatives as views and decisions of the Parliamentary Assembly, which is simply not true and creates confusion. We suggested that you address both the representatives and the envoys of both homes today, which is unfortunately not respected. Mr Šmit, the issue of legitimate representation of the people in the BiH authorities that represent the peoples in accordance with the Constitution, means the Presidency, the homes of the people, must represent the will of the Croatian people, or other peoples, for us there is no treaty, all other matters of agreement and compromise. And just one more thing, BiH is the only country in the world whose parliament, that is, this House of Representatives where you have two parliamentary majority today, one is a formal one in which HDZ-HNS, SDA and SNSD are and has an alternative to the parliamentary majority in which the SDA and all other parliamentary parties that do not make up this formal majority. The formal majority served only once to form the Council of Ministers and to bear or bear responsibility, and the alternative government is making decisions. We believe you'll guess, hit that democratic patent designed by the Party of Democratic Action. I'm putting myself at your disposal to discuss this and everything else when and if you want. So you can comment if you want, if you don't, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-28-0.u10877	In front of our party club, Mr. Kojović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-28-0.u10878	I thank the chairman. I welcome all present and thank Mr. High Representative Šmit for the opportunity to hear him today directly and to hear some of his views. My question is next. We are witnessing today that Germany, several times referred to in its speech to this, has come an extremely long way from Nazi Germany to today by a German who is not only an economic power in Europe, but, I say, a moral lighthouse has become the European Union. You mentioned the last step of this, that one process which was the unification of Germany by the destruction of the Berlin Wall, but of course you did not refer to one long-term, painful and difficult process of dedicating Germany that had to precede 10 of all that today Germany would be a symbol of the highest democratic standards of human rights and everything else in which, among other things, it was also, I say, legally prohibited denial of the Holocaust and other Nazi crimes. I am interested – will you be interested in the next period, since if you are, you certainly have a very clear picture of what is going on in BiH and these 25 years, and intensively in the last few months, can you, can you and what do you think you can do in terms of, of course, that denacification is not the right word, but that it is in some way starting with breaking nationalist narratives that, in the end, are ultimately held by nationalist political entities in power, living from this rhetoric and creating a closed circle from which, as you can see, we are not able to come out for 25 years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-28-0.u10879	Representative jasmin Emrić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-28-0.u10880	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear High Representative, in your address, you stressed that at this current political moment, the most important thing is to unblock the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Do you think it is meaningful, and are you ready to apply financial sanctions against MPs and MPs who are not fulfilling their constitutional and legal obligation in such a way as to limit wages and benefits for those who have been unjustly avoiding work, thus blocking the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for a long time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-28-0.u10881	Thank you. No further questions, if Mr. Šmit is ready, he can answer the questions asked. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-28-0.u10882	Thank you very much for this question that you have described these important questions ahead of us. I'm not Pedi Ešdaun, and we're not going back at that time, because there's been a handover of responsibility in the hands of domestic authorities, but as I said all jurisdiction still stands, all the powers I have are not lifted. You said, give me a clear answer yes or no. Usually in political life it's not easy to say yes or no, I'm going to give one other answer, I was visiting the Constitutional Court yesterday, I've talked to the President and the others about their decisions and what direction it's been going lately. And I am convinced that the Constitutional Court has clear decisions when, for example, it is. It is about the Law on the Forests, which is said not to violate the jurisdiction of the Constitution. So, if there is a decision already, it is not on the High Representative to make a decision above that. Of course, it's not a decision problem, it's a decision-making problem, it's another question where we have to sit down and think about how to lead to it. Let me still be not completely clear, but to say that I am working on it and not just me, because the issue of implementing decisions is most important. Yeah, some proposals are now in the National Assembly, they're not in line with Dayton because of that, they can't function, but I'm working on the implementation issue. It is positive that the Constitutional Court is very independent, very strict, and 11 also told me yesterday that only one percent, less than one percent of the decisions of that court were made with the participation of international judges. So I don't think it's a challenge. It's an opportunity. Mr. Magazinović, you've been burning on judicial reform and what's the point, if I'm reading Pribe's report I have to ask myself what's been achieved since then, I'm sure you know the Pribe report, we need to get into the state of the rule of law. So, the situation in which all those responsible, taking into account courts, will be taken into account, I do not want to blame some courts but to see that there is a need to gain citizens' confidence in what is important to them. So let's think about it, let's think about some, so to speak, scandals. There are some things you can't avoid in any country, there's no life without scandals, but the difference between countries is how these scandals are solved, if you look at the Pribe report there's something very important said, and that's that the judicial sector has to be strengthened. The electoral law, first of all, I think that what the Venice Commission and ODIHR have said and the Council of Europe is very important, we know that talks are being held on how to organise elections, especially for the Presidency, and I know that there are a lot of talks in this city today and with people from this country and outside, I agree, these laws must be passed here, not by the decree of any international institution, but I think it would be very good to come up with a common solution when it comes to election law. With respect to all these issues that are very similar, when you will use your powers. I can't rule out the use of powers, what I can rule out is that I won't make things easier for myself, we have to make sure that everything goes through the institutions, that it goes through a political approach, that's something we've been working on all these days. I'm mildly, slightly optimistic in terms of some proposed laws that they won't be adopted and I think it'll be the merit of all those who worked on it, I think I'm one of them. As for both homes, of course I agree why I would not be in the House of the Peoples, I am certainly ready to address this House and speak to them. Political interests in the European Parliament are more complicated than here, similar in Switzerland, nor is it easy to sit there in the federal parliament, the federal parliament, the difference is that you have a blockade here, which is unacceptable. You can take a break between 10 and 15, and 12 and 30 to a little bit, to blow your brain a little bit, but not as a strategy. Those who are not determined to work together show no strength but weakness. denacifikacija, Mr. Kojović, thank you for that question. I share your observation that we definitely have to work on it, not indoctrination to anyone but to give young generations in particular the opportunity to hear and come to the conclusions themselves. I'm not familiar with all aspects of the education system and the curriculum and the programs, but I want to say something that I'm going to say politely, but I'm really amazed, I'm amazed that there are different curricula and programs for different nationalities, it's not good. I was on the committee we worked on, the joint commission where we worked with the Czech Republic, we had a lot of disagreements, disagreements, but you have to work on it. So, it's not about any nationality, things are different in Germany in the sense that the Nijemac have been going through this process for a long time, but there's always this need to look ahead and say it won't happen again. But sometimes by looking at the media, it seems to me that people don't always have that in mind, we must always keep that in mind because of young generations. So if you're asking me when you're going to use your powers, I'd say I'm already using my powers, not in a sense that's in front of the public, but on the side. And I repeat again, to those who thought things would be easy, no, my predecessor was here for a long time and it lasted until he passed the law, it's not something that counts in years, but it takes 12 to measure progress. But again, the powers are in the drawer, and I'm not shutting down the possibility of that drawer opening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-10-28-0.u10883	... once again we warmly thank the High Representative, Mr Šmit, for addressing the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, for answering the questions asked. I warmly thank you all for your participation in the work of today's session of the Parliamentary House of BiH and I hereby conclude today's session. Thank you very much. Session completed at 13:20 p.m.
