ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1872	Ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, I warmly welcome you and open the 15th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The meeting invited our regular guests, the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and ministers of the Council of Ministers of BiH, representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, the Central Election Commission, the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions, the Governing Board of the BiH Export and Credit Agency, all of whom I warmly welcome. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] The session is attended by 14 delegates – 5 from the Bosniak people, 5 from the Croatian people and 4 from the Croatian people (?In addition to my explanation that Lazar Prodanović, a delegate from the Serb people announced a delay and therefore will come to this meeting of the House of Peoples. As indicated in your call for a session, in accordance with Article 155. The Rules of Procedure at the beginning of the session, and before the debate on the agenda, delegates will be allowed to ask delegate questions in oral form. I remind you that together with the invitation to the 15th session of the House of Nations, you have also been sent letters regarding the procedure for asking delegate questions in oral form. That letter, i.e. a notice on the possibility of asking delegate questions in oral form at the 15th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, was also sent to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers of BiH. In accordance with Rule 156 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, delegate Denis Bećirović was submitted to the Committee of Ministers, Mr Zoran Tegeltija; delegate Marina Pendeš for the Minister of Security of BiH, Mr Selm Cikotić; delegate Lidijo Bradar for the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH, Mr Staš Košarac and delegate Bariša Čolak for the Minister of Justice of BiH, Mr Josip Grubeša. In accordance with Article 156(2) of the Rules of Procedure of this announcement, the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and the member of the BiH Council of Ministers have been delivered to which the issue concerns. I would also like to remind you that we have sent a notice to the Public TV Service of BiH to ensure the direct television transmission of this part of the session in accordance with Rule 155 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. Now we can start asking oral delegates questions. I give my word to Mr. Denis Bećirović, please. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1873	Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the Council of Ministers of BiH has an obligation to also inform witnesses, i.e. a guarantee of the Dayton Peace Agreement on the scandalous splendor and award of convicted war criminals, which was done in the Assembly of Bh. An entity of the RS. I especially note this because the essential provisions of the General Framework Agreement for the Peace of Democracy, the return of trust, the construction of the rule of law and the punishment of war criminals are essential. The award of criminals in the Assembly of Bh. The RS entity is a first-class scandal for Europe, the United Nations and the whole world. Imagine where Europe would be today, and the EU, if it had decorated war criminals from Ninberg. Because of the future of all Europe and the world, I think we need to send a clear message that criminals from both the Ninberg and the Hague must never be rewarded and decorated. You see war criminals from World War II, for example, Hajnrih Himler and Alfred Rozenberg have advocated a criminal policy that there are superior peoples, that there are more and lower races and that there are corrupt peoples. A convicted war criminal, for example, Biljana Plavšić, also advocated politics that there is a superior people in BiH and that there are some who are corrupt peoples. The question arises – how can such people be decorated? Be careful, these racist, most vulgar racist theories of Himler Rozenberg and Plavšićke women must never be decorated, so we should always express this in connection with this condemnation and disdain. That's why I'm publicly in the state parliament today and I'm asking, but I'm also giving a message, first of all, to Milorad Dodik, that's where he's the head of the task force -- is he aware of what a civilization's disgrace is?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1874	You have for, time is up, this is not a minute message but questions, please finish the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1875	An explanation with questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1876	Please finish the question, you've broken the deadline.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1877	Therefore, war criminals have been convicted in accordance with the International Court of Justice's rulings, and we must bear in mind the International Court of Justice's rulings. It is unacceptable for such people to be decorated, these are rightly convicted war criminals, which is why I am publicly asking the prime minister's government – what has the Council of Ministers done about it and whether it has informed witnesses, or guarantees of the Dayton Peace Agreement on this matter, above all the United States and the European Union?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1878	Chairman, Mr. Zoran Tegeltija, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1879	Dear Chairman, deputies, gentlemen of delegates and fellow ministers, media representatives, I would like to welcome you to the beginning of today's House of Peoples session and try to give this answer, which is very vague and vague and in essence. But... based on what 3 could be seen from the question, more from what there were comments, to say that the guarantees of the Dayton Peace Agreement are large countries, which are very well informed and of all the events in the world, and not only in BiH, they do not need someone who would particularly inform them about it. Also, it is clear that this Council of Ministers has not informed anyone outside BiH about the decisions of any assembly in BiH, whether this is a decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Parliament of the Federation, cantonal, or county governments, local communities, etc. We believe that all issues in BiH, all decisions by our authorities should be made and discussed in BiH. The question I have received is not clear on what decisions of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, from which time period, but it is quite clear that from these comments, it seems to me to refer to some decisions which now, these decisions put into focus a high representative after many, many years. If you were referring to those decisions, it is quite certain that those decisions were made long before the election of this Council of Ministers and that we could not even plead on them. I therefore believe that all decisions made by our parliaments should be subject to consideration in BiH, not outside BiH. And in the end, I would not comment, neither is the place,...I would like to comment on your views on decisions made by the competent authorities such as the decision of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska and the views of individuals and people who are neither in your position nor in mine to answer what they think. And finally, for the sake of the public, every parliament's decision in BiH, including this House, is available to the public, and everyone could get acquainted with those decisions and make views on those decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1880	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Zoran Tegeltija. Is the delegate satisfied with the answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1881	Of course I'm not and here's Mr. Tegeltija's proof that you are very clear and precisely asked a question and you know that this applies to 2016 and to the scandalous award of the convicted war criminals Karadžić, Krajišnik, Plavšićka etc. All, therefore, is clear and the BiH Council of Ministers should have a clear view on this, because even war crimeswoman Biljana Plavšić has admitted her responsibility in court. We can't build a future, and we don't send a good message to young generations if war criminals are decorated, so what children will look up to and what they will want to become if they see war criminals decorated. People, it's a civilization divide, you who come from that entity have a little bit of an impact on these people.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1882	I warn you, time has been broken, colleague Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1883	Not to do what they're doing, and of course this question of mine has a special message for the international community. The message to the international community is clear, it is obvious, regardless of all efforts, that it seems absolutely impossible to democratisation the bh.entity of RS, because if the leaders of this entity 4
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1884	I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1885	their source and inspiration are found in war criminals
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1886	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1887	So what are we talking about here?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1888	...please sit down, I give the word to Marina Pendeš, Marina Pendeš. Mrs. Pendeš, please ask a question.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1889	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1890	Please sit down, the word has a colleague Marina Pendeš and take care of the weather and make sure that asking questions and calling is not the same, you can be satisfied or dissatisfied with the answer, and everything else is, let me conduct the session. Here you go, pal Pendeš.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1891	Honorable members of the College, respected colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. I asked the Minister of Security, I'm not sure there's anyone here to give me an answer on behalf of the Ministry of Security, and the question concerns – is there any information on whether a group of Italian Europarliamentaries had an official call from some state institution to visit the UN-San canton, illegal migrants, and have they crossed our state border using diplomatic passports? Which is why I'm asking that question. In the light of the fact that this is a group of Europarliamentaries, I believe that they are certainly addressed that there is a certain diplomatic code, the Code of Conduct, and since the College of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly does not have that information, nor has it been called, nor have we had a meeting, I consider it inappropriate for me, here I also warn the institutions that need to take care of the dignity and the state parliament, but also the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that we are not going to cross the border. We have problems with illegal migrants, illegal migrants coming from the EU, I think of Greece as an EU member country and I think it was my turn for these Europarliamentaries to visit the BiH Parliament, whether it's the House of Representatives or the House of Peoples and to discuss the migrant crisis, and I think this is, this move is inappropriate.... I expect that in writing... [[no microphone turned on]] 5
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1892	Thank you very much. The minister is not present, we have a promise that you will receive an answer in writing from Mr. Minister, who was prevented from attending this part of the session. I give the word, delegate to Lidija Bradara. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1893	I thank the chairman. Dear Chairman, members of the Council of Ministers here present, dear colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all very much. Also, as far as I can see, the resolution minister is not present, so I'm going to ask a question and expect to be answered in writing, and perhaps the chairman of the Council of Ministers can. We know that BiH has clearly defined itself to take over the EU's legal assets in the area of agriculture and rural development, we understand that there is a need to achieve a certain level of quality and food safety standards for uninterrupted trade in agricultural products and exports of all animal goods to the EU market. In this context, the priority area for implementing reforms has been differentiated, which is legislation, which is the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Food, the Law amending and supplementing the Veterinary Law, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Agriculture, Nutrition and Rural Development of BiH, the Law on Wine, the improvement of the legal framework for strengthening and developing organic production in BiH. In your Annual Report of 2020 on Agriculture, Food and Rural Development for BiH on the adoption of a new Law on Wine, the Organic Production Act in the previous reporting period did not make any significant progress, and in the same report in the context of the amendments and addition of the three laws in the Food Safety Chapter there is no information relevant for the reporting period. I ask you a question, since these days it is a very acute issue of protecting domestic production – What have you done as Minister on this matter, since these are the most significant activities in protecting domestic production and its ability to place it on the European and global market, and it has been almost a year since the creation of the said extract? Finally, I would like to conclude that you must recognise that regulation of the normative legal framework in the area of agriculture and rural development can make a significant contribution to strengthening the competitiveness of domestic production and thus both domestic and foreign markets. I think that's the best way to protect domestic production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1894	Thank you very much. Since the minister is not present, he will receive an answer in writing. I give the word to the delegate, Mr Bariša Čolak. Here you go. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1895	Dear members of the College, respected colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of BiH institutions, all present, welcome you. My question concerns the revised strategy for working on war crimes cases, and the specific question is – Why is no decision on the appointment of members of the supervisory body to monitor the application of work, that is, this strategy, so, the revised strategies for working on war crimes cases? In fact, the strategy was adopted in, I think, September last year, within 30 days, this body was to be exposed, and as far as I know, it wasn't done until today. As a matter of fact, is it that institutions have not delivered names, is it that it may be members of the Council of Ministers or is it something else, is it perhaps an obstruction, because it has been really long waiting for us to have this revised strategy, and now we are again in a kind of stalemate because of the unnamed, therefore, of this supervisory authority. Well, here's the minister to answer that question for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1896	Thank you. I give my word to the Minister of Justice, Mr. Grubeša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1897	Dear Chairman, members of the College, distinguished envoys, envoys and colleagues from the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. As said at the 29th extraordinary session of the BiH Council of Ministers, the proposal for a revised state strategy for working on cases of early crimes, including annexes A and B.. The revidirati strategy envisions, among other things, that two members, i.e. a member and a replacement member, representatives from the BiH Ministry of Justice, the Federal Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice of Republika Srpska, the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, and then the Ministry of Security and the Brcko District Justice Committee. Annex B of the revised strategy further provides for one member to be appointed to the supervisory authority without voting rights from the Court of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office for Criminal Courts and the Office of the European Union as observers. The justice ministry received data from the competent institutions from the proposed members, prepared a proposal for a decision, obtained opinions and delivered to the BiH Council of Ministers. At the 24th session of 28.01 this year, the Council of Ministers postponed the examination of the draft decision and concluded that the material in question should be corrected in a way that has been proposed and appointed by two alternate members of the Bosniak people. At the 25th session, held on 03.02 this year, at the request of the Council of Ministers' Colleges, the draft decision was not considered until the text of the proposal was drawn up in accordance with the conclusion of the 24th session. For the sake of that ministry of justice, on 02.02., it requested that the BiH Ministry of Security and the High Court and Prosecutor's Council appoint representatives from the Bosniak people instead of those proposed earlier, to this day, the Ministry of Security has done so, however, waiting for a further response from the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. 7 The implementation of a large number of activities envisaged by the strategic objectives is related to the adoption of the Revised State Strategy to work on war crimes cases, so that the deadline for the start of their implementation began by adopting it, as you said in your question. The institutions in charge shall carry out the activities in accordance with the time limits set for each of the measures established. Therefore, failure to adopt a decision establishing a supervisory authority does not require competent institutions to carry out activities in accordance with the objectives and deadlines set out in the Strategy. The establishment of a supervisory authority will ensure adequate control mechanisms for the implementation of the Strategy and responsibilities for non-compliance with the decision of the supervisory authority, all in accordance with the measures provided for in the Strategy and the strategic objectives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1898	I thank Minister Grubeša. Is my colleague Čolak satisfied with the answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1899	Thank you Minister, I'm pleased with what he said, but of course I can't be satisfied, because too much time has passed and I think it should be done as soon as possible and I hope it will be done. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1900	Thank you. Delegate Lazar Prodanović received an answer in writing to the question raised by the State Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Security. Is the delegate satisfied with the answer? Yes, it is. Thank you... So now on the agenda, for the 15th session, you've received a proposal for a harmonised agenda and I'm opening a debate on a harmonised agenda. [[no microphone turned on]] Who's answering for a word? Zlatko Miletić answered the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1901	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Good afternoon, I welcome my colleagues and colleagues, I welcome the chairman of the Council of Ministers, present ministers, representatives of BiH institutions, our professional staff, media representatives. I have three suggestions on the agenda. The first proposal is if there is an opportunity to remove item 16 from the agenda, in the light of the fact that the Council of Ministers made 8 decisions in its Decision No 3/21 on the approval of the funds of the current reserve of BiH institutions and international obligations of BiH in order to provide international assistance to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, published in Official Messenger No 6/21 since 29/0121, and allocated a sum of half a million converting marks. I don't think there's any need to discuss this, here's just to take this opportunity to thank the chairman of the Council and all the ministers for making this decision. When it comes to the agenda, I propose two items of the agenda in accordance with Article 61(1) of the Rules of Procedure. The first is, I'm really, if you believe my word, I tried to write this last week on Thursday and I didn't know that individuals from this room, representatives of institutions and political parties would be sitting with representatives of the international community on Friday, that you didn't think that I was in some kind of hearing with them. So, I propose a agenda point – A review of the implementation of the priorities of the European Commission's opinion on the candidate status of BiH, since 29/05/2019, in the context of the final adoption and adoption of laws in the area of rule of law and this: the Law on conflict of interest, the Law on Public Procurement and the Law on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. In addition, the requirement to define the holders of this activity today, the responsibility of those who carry the activity, and the deadline for the delivery of these laws to both homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. And I propose another item of the agenda, given that it has a great interest in citizens throughout BiH, and this is – an analysis of the measures and activities taken by BiH institutions to further prevent the spread of the COVID-19 epidemic and the consequences of the loss of human lives, we today have the deceased 4,765 of our citizens, including the process of immunisation, the vaccination of the Bosnian Herzegovic population through the Kovaks mechanism and the Agreement on joint procurement within the EU or direct procurement by the administrative units of the contracting parties in BiH, with a clear presentation of plans for priority immunisation within BiH, with a review of measures and activities to prevent the spread of new B117 virus strains from Great Britain and N501Y from South Africa. Thank you very much. Here, I'll deliver.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1902	I thank my colleague Miletić. Please, just in writing to win. The word was requested by a colleague, Bosić Mladen. Here you go. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1903	In order to be correct, I should say a few words, so Parliament's working bodies serve to discuss each item of the agenda well and only to deal with what is clear, clearly, towards the House. At a meeting of the Finance and Budget Commission since the day before yesterday, when this point 16 of counterpart Zlatko Miletić was discussed, I warned him that the Council of Ministers had completed its work and asked him to withdraw the decision, that is, this initiative and he did not agree. So this is one experience that we should be, we now have this point as a mandatory item of the agenda and it can't back down now. There was a time when it could, but he didn't want it then. So, I think we should be more correct and all we have to do by the time committees, then it's too late and we have to plead on that. Thank you. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1904	Thank you. Mr. Bosić, please... Mr. Miletić. [[no microphone turned on]] Dispose of fellow Miletić, you're looking for an correction to the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1905	Excuse me, colleague Bosić. I won't be long. I'll just say one sentence. So, it's exactly what Mrs. Majkić said, but partly. On that committee, as I recall, you voted on this initiative and did not make it in the sense that you voted 2:2-1, so the initiative did not go through, despite the fact that the Council of Ministers had already made such a decision. And here, in order not to further complicate the situation, if you take the contents of the initiative, it is in fact partially fulfilled, did we not find that other mechanism to give BiH citizens the opportunity to help the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in this regard? But in order not to cook, here's if we had the chance for the first time to praise the Council of Ministers for something, I think it's correct and I have the right, since I killed that initiative, to ask it to be taken down. So, please, please vote well, so put it or take it off, anyway.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1906	... House sessions, delegates as well as any authorised promoter shall have the right to request the abandonment of any optional item and to propose a new one with appropriate material in writing. [[no microphone turned on]] This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So, I ask you to understand, it's not a problem we'll end point 16 and remain, in a fair way, but in a business way, so while there is a Rules of Procedure we must stick to the framework of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1907	I hope you will not interrupt me for the third time. At the 15th session, held on 11 January 2021, the House of Representatives adopted a request by MEPs to initiate a vote on the reconstruction of the BiH Council of Ministers and replaced BiH Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs Siniša Ilić. That was a month ago, I noticed that there are no points on today's agenda, although it is a duty to declare this shift to the House of Peoples, and therefore I initiate putting that point on the agenda. I don't know what the reason she wasn't, why the College didn't put an end to it, maybe there's a reason, but I'd like to hear an explanation for it then. But to explain this initiative, I say a few words that were also in the context of the initiative in the House of Representatives. Namely, the Republic Games Authority announced on 14 December 2020 that the inspectors of this administration have discovered the illegal acquisition of gambling games at the electronic game terminal, gambling machines, as well as the unauthorized staging of betting gambling games at the Bat In Automotives Club in Zvornik by the company Bingo Trade Shamac, which has been issued a misdemeanor order due to the work done. In the register of business entities as the owner of Bingo Trade from Šamac, Siniša Ilić, current Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs, was listed, while the cafe bars Beth In with Zovrnik, Bijeljini, Osmak and Brcko District were registered as the property of 10 Bingo Treid from Šamac. Also inspectors of the Department of Inspection Oversight of the Republic Board of Games on August 10th last year discovered the unauthorized performance of gambling in the area of Bijeljina, also followed by Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs Siniša Ilić, etc. etc. I think this is enough in the initiative and I cannot believe that, although those who supported Mr Ilić to be a member of the Council of Ministers, or Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs, I believe they had no insight into what the gentleman concerned was doing. I think that this institution must express its will to and point out that not everyone can be in institutions, especially not in such an important institution as the Council of Ministers, and I believe that the House of Peoples will vote that it is right about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1908	I thank my colleague Bosić. We passed the agenda, which you received, seven or eight days ago, so it's all within the deadline within which we need to declare ourselves and I don't mind that you suggested this initiative, we'll make a statement about this initiative, just pray in writing. Thank you very much. ... asked for a colleague, Mrs Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1909	So my initiative, which I am submitting this time, is about extending the point of the new agenda, which is – Analysis of the situation in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the diplomatic and consular network with a proposal for measures. To prepare this point, it is necessary for the Ministry of Salt Affairs to form within 30 days an appropriate material that will serve to discuss the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and on which to determine the measures to be achieved to change the situation there. Why and why this initiative? The first thing, that MIP is one of the biggest budget users, that its budget is almost 70 million,... 67, to be exact, employs close to 500 people, of which 224 are based and 273 in the DKP network. In the last five years, the number of audit recommendations has been constantly increasing and it is one of the few institutions that has almost no movement in its work and even worse, it is one of the institutions that has never found fit to explain to Parliament where we are, why such a situation, which is why so many problems in the DKP network, and in particular what measures should be taken to improve the situation in the area. So it's not yesterday, so I'm saying that the audit itself says that five years there is a critical state. The audit found that from... the last time, that in the last years 31 recommendations they received... over the previous years, only one was fulfilled, that nine were realised and realized in progress, and 21 was not realised. If this is added that we recently adopted the 2019 Review Report and that 36 recommendations were made at the time, this means that the following... that this year, when we are... audit reports, this institution should implement 57 recommendations which is absolutely impossible and means it remains the situation as it is. The next serious reason is the time of the peers in which many countries have made special efforts to save in their budgets, then it was logical that the largest budget users and make the most reductions, or at least make an analysis of the situation found in these 11 institutions and the proposal for measures to be successfully completed. So if we know that this ministry consists of 56 embassies, six general consulates and six permanent missions, it's easy to imagine how much these funds are and how effective work could reduce costs in many segments. So I don't want to open anymore, so I could talk right now, but that's a matter of discussion. I ask you... please understand the occasion and not just for the MIP, but for all the institutions we should treat ourselves like this, Parliament's task is to be monitoring the use and consumption of public money, so let us do it once. There, I call on you to support this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1910	I thank my colleague, Majkić. The word was sought by counterpart Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1911	I want to make it very clear that the entry of the BiH state into NATO union is a strategic goal of BiH, it is drawn up by decisions, resolutions, strategies by all the competent state authorities, in the end I am particularly underlining the precise legal obligation of the BiH state and whoever is obstructing it is committing a criminal act, whoever wants to amend that legal provision, let the law be amended as long as we do not change the law, it is an obligation for all. Now, Mr. Dragan Čović, the vice-president of this House, is hosting a few weeks ago on HRT in the show One in public in front of a broad audience, I quote – only Croatian representatives want to join NATO, Srbin follow Sribija and are not in favour of membership, and Bosniak representatives sincerely do not advocate NATO. First, I do not agree that political representatives are placed in three ethnic towers, but this finding is completely incorrect for Mr. Čović and therefore it is good to check today and in front of the public in BiH and Croatia how much Dragan Čović was telling the truth when he placed such a thesis. Here I have no time to talk about a number of other false things, which Čović publicly said at the expense of the BiH state, things that have nothing to do with the facts, but therefore there is no dilemma and to check these publicly stated allegations by Mr Čović, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, I propose the next item of the agenda – Considering the BiH Council of Ministers' report on BiH's progress in the NATO accession process, with a proposal for concrete measures to dynamic activities on the road to full membership in NATO. So, I repeat, this is a legal obligation and there is no debate whether or not we want to go to NATO, but I think we need to speed up this process, and that is why I propose a concrete item of the agenda and let us see after the vote how publicly this thesis of the HDZ president and the deputy in this House was true. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, of course, I also deliver this proposal in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1912	Correction of the wrong allegation, deputy chairman, Mr Dragan Čović. Here you go. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1913	Dear colleagues, I welcome you from the heart, and here I will give my colleague the satisfaction of answering, because apparently the only and desire of this approach was to go out for a pay phone so he can get another minute, but maybe this topic deserves something like that. Not only on this show, but in hundreds of such shows over the past 20 years, I have said some similar things about my country of BiH. Whether you are in a tower or not now, you will commit yourself, there are three clubs here, three people and nothing more and we are proudly part of this Hrvat Club in this House, because that is how the Constitution of BiH defined it. When it comes to the debate on how we want to go, when it comes to the Euro-Atlantic integration process, I think I have repeated it hundreds of times, and sometimes you can take one of my books that speaks exactly about what I've been saying in public for the last 25 years, so there you will find my position on Euro-Atlantic integration and the EU, but also on the NATO alliance in a very clear way. And what I said there and about NATO, I can repeat and argue in a thousand ways, I certainly won't do it here, because it's for discussion in a different way, because over the past 20 years, we've signed agreements on this particular topic from all political parties in BiH, when it comes to the Partnership for Peace at several addresses, and every time we give up the signed agreements, and that's why I said that I want one way to approach, the other publicly says that they don't want to, and the third one has some tactics about it. And everything I said about the city of Sarajevo as the capital of my home country of BiH is absolutely standing today as it was five, six years ago and all of us who should change something from these facts can only do one thing, that we make a really different approach, so that I can go out and say - that even in Sarajevo, Hrvat can be a representative of a public institution at the municipal, city or cantonal level, a Srbin can be a representative of a public institution at the municipal, city or cantonal level. Unfortunately, in the last ten years, this has been erased and today Sarajevo is the city of one people and the few others who have remained as citizens to live in Sarajevo. Unfortunately, that's also why we shouldn't analyze it, but simply, my words on some occasion, some journalistic advance or some political comment, because what I said there, I just told you here from the pay phone. Unfortunately, today and in your Tuzla, but equally in Gorazd, Bihac, Zenica, we can speak the same way when it comes to the position of one of the people, as we can in some other environments talk about some other two peoples. BiH has its national structure and will have a long time, because it rests, first of all, it is constitutionally... a category of constitutional peoples and it is not any cake, but one wealth of BiH, I, as long as I have the chance to get ahead of such microphones, will talk about the equality of three constituent peoples on every inch of BiH. Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1914	I thank Mr. Dragan Čović, the deputy chairman. The word was sought, a correction of the wrong allegations, by counterpart Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1915	Comrade Čović, I think that we must stick to the truth and at the level of facts and I am only interested in facts and that is why I accurately stated what you were talking about. You weren't telling the truth on HRT, and that's the problem, you accused the full authority in Sarajevo of working on the realisation of the Islamic Declaration, the unitary state, Muslim derivatives, etc. That's not true. Then you told the truth that less than 1.5% of Hrvat live in Sarajevo, see the 2013 census at least four times you said less than you did. You told one hoax to the people of Sarajevo that it was an ethnic 13 pure city, not a cosmopolitan city, and that its ethnic structure was changed, we know what policies were doing to separate the people and who were responsible for it, Mr. Čović. I call on you to talk about the truth, to talk about the facts, not to muddle either the capital or the state of BiH, not to put targets on the heads of the entire nations, as you did in that November statement about a terrorist act in France, that is the bottom of the line, Mr. Čović.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1916	May I ask you...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1917	You respect all citizens and peoples, let's talk about the facts /at the same time Bećirović and Špirić/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1918	...for a debate if the point is adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1919	Špirić still have time to answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1920	You do, but I beg you...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1921	My kolegica Majkić, she broke you for a minute and a half... /at the same time Bećirović and Špirić/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1922	Yes, but you must choose the words, yet this is the House of the Peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1923	Comrade Špirić, you're a little player so you can confuse me, what I'm trying to say, I'll say it. So I compared my colleague to Čović the facts and the truth and nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1924	.... That physical... doesn't mean, if you keep us still, there will never be peace, my Denise. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1925	Okay, here, I'm sure I won't go out for you anymore, because I don't want to give you any more material to step forward the way you've come forward for the last ten, fifteen years in politics in BiH, and it should be worth it to whoever's following what you're doing and it's not for me to analyze at all. But every word I've said in that interview and every other one is the fact of BiH's relationship and the absolute truth of what's going on in BiH. You can put a mask on both the ears and the eyes and the mouth, and you can't see and hear and don't act by it, but I am holding with my age, 14 years of experience and knowledge to ensure that I represent the interests of my country of BiH and when I speak anywhere as a representative of the Croatian people, I speak in the interest of this BiH, because I am convinced that it can only survive as a state just as a community of three constituent peoples, as defined in aneks IV, which is our Constitution in part BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1926	I thank my colleague, Čović. The word was sought again by counterpart Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1927	The BiH state will survive because the integration forces in the BiH state are stronger and because BiH state friends in the world are much stronger than those who do not think well of the BiH state. As far as I'm concerned, I will continue, Mr. Čović, to speak exclusively of facts, it is not an honor for you to make such false statements about both Sarajevo and BiH. I have told you very precisely and clearly what you have said and what is not true, so I invite you to stick to facts and clear arguments, not to use the media to show some attitudes that do not have a simple basis. Look at the population list, and you'll see how things are, look at the other things I've been telling you about. As for the citizens and voters who follow you and me and all other political officials, we will leave them to plead. Your constituency, like my constituency, was the same two and a half years ago or two years ago, see how many votes you've received, as much as I have, if you're interested in it.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1928	Thank you. The word was sought by the vice-president, Mr Bakir Izetbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1929	I think that there were indeed false allegations, so I would like to correct them when it comes to the people's commitment to NATO times, I don't know how much order it is to analyse such things at all, but we have this study of public change, so it is known that the NATO path, of course, is strongly supported by the Bosniak people, and by the representatives of the Bosniak people also a year we haven't set up a Council of Ministers because the representatives of that people, specifically the SDA, insisted that there should continue, this, NATO path in line with earlier strategies and decisions. So we've had one crisis politically because we haven't given up on it, these are facts. When it comes to the position, this, the people and the benignness of each other, I can point out that in Sarajevo four years after the voter's war, we had the head of the Serb municipality, so four years after the siege ended. Now again in the Municipality of Census we have the elected chief who is a Srbin, we had Mayor Ivo Komšić, who is a Hrvat, so until a few months ago we had the Hrvat first man Canton Sarajevo, Mr Nenadić, which was the will of politicians and the agreement of politicians. So, even when it comes to people, voters, when it comes to politicians, that's the way it is. A HDZ minister was introduced in Tuzla, although HDZ does not have a cantonal representative in the assembly, but with the will of politicians, such a compromise has been made and thus has been opened to both Hrvat and HDZ. In Varesh twice in a row is the Hrvat mayoral vote from HDZ-15a. So much for Bošnjak, I am waiting for a time when I will see that, in such a way, Serbian politicians, Croatian politicians and voters treat representatives and candidates from the Bosniak people.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1930	Thank you. A kolegica of Pendeš's, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1931	I thank the chairman. I would just like to warn you of Article 69. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, paragraph (5) – non-compliance with the order, which implies insulting the envoys and present, disrespecting the president's warning. Well, I'm just warning you, because Mr. Bećirović, this isn't the first time that he's broken the article of this Rules of Procedure. And when we talk about the agenda point, he should have focused, but then he shouldn't insult those who have worked for many years, when we talk about Euro-Atlantic integrations and Mr. Izetbegović himself said they wanted to continue, and whoever was formerly in the Ministry of Defence means the course, HDZ was, in the Presidency of BiH HDZ was, so Mr. Bećirović don't insult me and don't insult HDZ members who have been working for many years on the implementation of what they have brought through their documents and their bodies and in all the positions they have been in for many years.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1932	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Lidija Bradara. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1933	I thank the chairman. I have read this one of our Rules of Procedure several times, and it is very interesting how my colleague Bećirović uses the agenda point every time to ask questions. Well, I think if we start to change our Rules of Procedure so that we can ask the leadership of the House, the various topics, because this has turned into a direct question to President Čović, which I don't think was a point of the agenda, and I ask you to respect the articles of Rules 66, 67 and 68. And about how, how many votes we have, how we came here, I think it is illusory to discuss, and I really pray that if the item of the agenda is something that my colleague Bećirović suggested, I see no reason to address him directly to the chairman, Mr. Čović.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1934	I thank my colleague Bradar. Denis Bećirović's correction, violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1935	Well, it'd be a little three minutes now if you'd go straight to the Rules of Procedure to explain to you what you're hiding in the Rules of Procedure. Here, for example, a member of the 56th House College determines the monthly activity calendar by the end of the month for the next month. Has it ever been done? It's not. And Article 56... 16
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1936	.... colleague Bećirović, please stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1937	Well, I...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1938	If you don't behave, I'll give you a second warning and take away your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1939	Look at my friend Špirić. I've come to report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1940	Subtracting... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1941	I've reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1942	Your word has been taken from you. Let's go to the plea, colleagues Bećirović, we cannot tolerate your impudence, I chair, two warnings, you have a Rules of Procedure and please nice. Let's go, then, to the plea.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1943	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1944	Your function I respect, you don't respect this House and colleagues and I'm sorry, I had to do it, I hate to do it, every time I've warned you, it seems that you don't understand it or you won't, you seem to fit some other style
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1945	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1946	Please, dear, your word has been taken from you. We're going to make a statement, so we're going to make a suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1947	17 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1948	I can, no it's not true. We plead, therefore, on Mr Zlatko Miletić's proposal. Please Zlatko, the first item of the agenda, to remain a point, because we'll certainly talk about it briefly, I suppose, you've said all you've had, but we can't do business. We are going to the second, therefore, proposal – Revision of the implementation of the priorities of the European Commission's Opinion on the candidate status of BiH since 29/05/2019, in the context of the final adoption and adoption of the law in the area of rule of law and this: Law on conflict of interest, Law on Public Procurement, Law on VSTV, definition of the bearer of activity, responsibility and deadline of delivery of the law to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I'd like to make a statement on the proposal for this agenda point. So present 15 – for 6, versus 8, abstention 1. The Federation of BiH -- six against four, no one abstained. Republika Srpska – for no one, against 4, abstention 1. I'm guessing we didn't put the agenda on the table. We go to the second proposal by Mr Miletić – Analysis of measures and activities taken by BiH institutions to further prevent the spread of the COVID-19 epidemic and the consequences caused by the loss of human life, deceased 10.02.2021 in or up to 10.02.2021 in 4 765, including the immunisation process, vaccination of the Bosnian hergic population through the Kovacs mechanism and the COVID-19 joint procurement agreement within the EU or direct procurement by the administrative units of contracting parties in BiH, with a clear presentation of plans for priority immunisation within BiH, review of measures and activities and prevention of the spread of new COVID-19 strains – B117 Great Britain or N501Y South Africa. I'd like to make a statement about this proposal from my colleague. At present 15 – for 6, versus 8, abstention 1. The Federation of BiH -- six against four, abstentioned no one. Republika Srpska – for no one, against 4, abstention 1.. I also konstatuj that this proposal has not been supported to be a part of the agenda. We are going, therefore, in the order of the proposal, so the proposal of Bosić, based on the members, so he proposes a new item of the agenda – a motion to initiate a vote on the reconstruction of the BiH Council of Ministers, the replacement of BiH Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs Siniša Ilić. Please vote. At present 15 – for 6, versus 7, abstention 2. So we don't have most. So, the Federation of BiH -- four against four, abstention two. Republika Srpska – 2 for, versus 3, abstentioned no one. So we don't have a general majority and this point isn't included in the agenda. 18 We move on to the proposal, therefore, colleagues Dušanka Majkić will join the agenda of the 15th session of the House of Nations next item – Analysis of the situation in the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the diplomatic and consular network with a proposal for measures. So present 15 – for 9, versus 3, abstention 3. The Federation of BiH – for 5, against 3, abstention 2. Republika Srpska – for 4 against no one, abstention 1. So we have a general, we have an entity majority. I figure this is going to be the point, the new agenda point at this session. And so we have, therefore, the latest proposal from counterpart Bećirović, that is – Considering the BiH Council of Ministers' report on the progress of the BiH state in the NATO accession process, with a proposal for concrete measures to dynamic activities on the way to full membership in NATO. At present 15 – for 6, versus 8, abstention 1. The Federation of BiH -- six against four, abstentioned no one. Republika Srpska – for no one, against 4, abstention 1. So we don't have the general majority, we don't have the entity majority. I realize this isn't going to be a new agenda point. So for, for, the agenda of today's session, the agreed agenda of this session is, agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 14th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. Request of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to consider the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Foreigners' Act under an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, issue:01-02-1-2310/20 of 14. 01. 2021; 3. The request of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to consider the draft law supplementing the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic Safety on Roads to Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, issue: 01-02-1-1805/20 of 14. 01. 2021; 4. Proposal for amending and supplementing the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading), Proposer: Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 01-50-1-15-14/20 of 14. 12. 2020; 5. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the report on the work of the Bosnia and Herzegovina's Attorney General for 2019, issue: 01,02-50-18-2196/20 of 10. 11. 2020; 6. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "Digitalisation of the TV signal in BiH", submitr: BiH Institutions Audit Office, issue: 02/3-16-10-2464/20 of 23. 12. 2020; 7. Report on the impact audit carried out on the subject "Planning and conducting training of employees in BiH institutions", submitr: Office for the Review of BiH institutions, issue: 02/3-16-10-2465/20 of 23. 12. In 2020, 8. Report on the reviewed state of business of political parties in 2018, applicant: Central Election Commission of BiH, issue: 01,02-16-1-2293/20 of 27. 11. 2020; 9. Report on the work of the Management Board of the BiH Export and Credit Agency for 2019, issue: 01,02-16-1-2278/20 of 25. 11. 2020; 19 10. Information on the state of play at the BiH Export Credit Agency caused by the blockade of the main transaction account, the applicant: BiH Export Credit Agency, issue: 01,02-50-18-81/21 of 06. 01. 2021 and supplement information, number: 01,02-50-18-81/21 of 29. 01. 2021; 11. Report on the establishment of a proposal for candidate rankings for the appointment of members: (a) Independent Committee and (b) of the Committee on Appeals of Citizens, as independent bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure, delivered by the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Houses for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of members of the Independent Committee and the Committee on Citizens' Appeals, as independent bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure, issue: 01.02-34-1197/21 of 22. 01. 2021; 12. The appointment of Deputy Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Report on the establishment of a proposal for a candidate ranking for the selection of Deputy Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina delivered by the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Deputy Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina No: 01,02-50-16-161-5,1/21 of 21. 01. 2021; 13. Proposal for a decision on the Council of National Minorities of BiH delivered by the Joint Commission for Human Rights No. 01.02.03/6-39-11718/21 of 21. 01. 2021; 14. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of members of the Independent Commission for the Monitoring of Stays in Institutions, the conduct and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed by the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina in criminal proceedings, by foreign courts for acts provided for by the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, No 01,02-34-1196/21 of 22. 01. 2021, Proposer: Joint College of the Both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 15. Proposal for a conclusion of the Constitutional Legal Commission to ask the Central Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina for information on the implementation of the Local Elections in 2020, including the implementation of the Local Elections in the City of Mostar, within 30 days of the receipt of the conclusion," issue: 02/1-50-8-22-15/21 of 27.01.2021; 16. Delegate Dušanka Majkić's initiative, which reads: "Analysis of the state in the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the diplomatic-consular network" with a proposal for measures" of 02. Ten. 2021. 17. Zlatko Miletić's delegation initiative, initiated by the Council of Ministers from the current budget reserves of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions, in line with the current possibilities of BiH institutions, singles out some of the financial resources for spot assistance to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia for the resolution of the devastating earthquake, number: 02-50-6-2526/20 out of 30. 12. 2020; 18. Denis Bećirović's delegation initiative, tasked by the Council of Ministers to prepare the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly within three months of the day of adoption of this initiative and to refer to the parliamentary procedure for the analysis of the conduct of a hybrid war against the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with a proposal for measures to ensure the safe operation and strengthening of state defence capacities, No: 02-50-6-78/21 of 06. 01. 2021; 20 19. The approval of the ratification of the Amendment to the Montreal Protocol on Substances that damage the ozone layer (Amendman from Kigali), No: 01.02-2-21-1-2269/20 of 24. 11. 2020; 20. Granting consent to the ratification of the XI Part of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982, issue: 01,02-21-1-2410/20 of 16. 12. 2020; 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Financial Co-operation between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany for 2014 and 2015, signed in Sarajevo on 3 September 2020 with the exchange of diplomatic notes, No 01,02-21-1-2428/20 of 18 September 2020. 12. 2020; 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the construction and establishment of a new common border crossing at Bratunac – Ljubovija, issue: 01,02-21-1- 2486/20 of 24. 12. 2020. So this is a harmonised agenda. Moving to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 14th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There's no one here. So we are voting on the minutes of the 14th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. So present 15 – for 14, against no one, abstention 1. The Federation of BiH -- for 10, against no one, abstentioned no one. Republika Srpska – for 4 against no one, abstention 1. I konstatuj that the minutes are adopted by the 14th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. Request of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to consider the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Foreigners' Act under an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, issue: 01-02-1-2310/20 of 14. 01. 2021
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1951	Thank you, Mr. President. So a few words about the procedure itself. When it comes to this Law, the biggest problem is that it does not apply and where luck we would make these innovations a step, or especially if we would make a significant step. What, where I am in a great dilemma, when I read, and this is not difficult to read, because it is very small changes, it intervenes on articles 106 and 109, so it is about banishing residents and protecting foreigners. In addition to missing here, therefore, the opinion, therefore, is not, therefore, the Law itself is not supplied with the necessary opinions, it is not in my opinion, here it was necessary, at the very least, to have the opinion of the Directorate for European Integrations, because it seems to me that some of these proposals, or these amendments, could be in conflict with the EU's own gains. So I think it would be a good idea for this to go into a regular procedure, so that we can evaluate it and so that we can fix the law, thus allowing our institutions to finally start doing their job, because this so far really has not been prevented by anyone from the law as it is, the existing law that is certainly a very good law, but it is not applied by our institutions, and that is the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1952	I thank my colleagues... The proposed law shall be considered by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 124. [[no microphone turned on]] The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. So let's get this straight. So 14 present - for 6, versus 8, abstentioned no one. The Federation of BiH -- six against four, abstentioned no one. Republika Srpska – for no one, against 4 abstentioned no one. So here I'm saying we don't have a general and we don't have an entity majority. I find that we have not accepted, therefore, that we are discussing this Act by emergency procedure, and that means, therefore, that the law is going into regular procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1953	Vote for short first.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1954	Ah, ah, we are now pleading, therefore, about the shortened procedure. Let's vote. So 14 present - for 6, versus 8, abstentioned no one. The Federation of BiH -- six against four, abstentioned no one. Republika Srpska – for no one, against 4 abstentioned no one. So we don't have a general, we don't have an entity majority. I find, therefore, this Law did not receive the support to discuss it in a shortened procedure in accordance with Article 123. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. That's why I realize this law goes into regular procedure, a regular legislative procedure. 22 Moving to point three, Ad. 3. The request of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to consider the draft law supplementing the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic Safety on Roads to Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, issue: 01-02-1-1805/20 of 14. 01. 2021 You have received a request from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives for the Review of the Bill on the Completion of the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic on Roads to BiH on an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. The legislative sector has found that the draft law does not comply with the provisions of Article 95. The Rules of Procedure of the House of People, and it is in accordance with the Unique Rules for the Making of Legal Rules. I give my word to the billman, if he's here and there's a need? No, thank you. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Dušanka Majkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1956	Thank you very much. So when we get such a simple law, which practically contains only one attitude change, then it is usually said to vote for an emergency procedure. I really think we should support the emergency procedure. When I saw this Law itself its simplicity, knowing what it is, therefore, it says that the driver is informed that in the event of death, the driver is agreed to be the organ donor, if the person signs such a declaration when applying for the issue, replacing and extending the period of validity of the driver's licence, in all such cases, it will not require the consent of relatives to donate the authority. When I started dealing with this topic, then I found, I found a bunch of things that actually gave me enough information to talk about this topic. The first thing, such a serious question as the organ donation can't be arranged by the Road Safety Act, it's a complete absurdity. Secondly, even if the first one, if we had decided to further discuss this Law, he would not have endured any of the principles that we should vote on. Let's say, first principle, that principle of availability of transplants. When someone who died in a car accident decides to take an organ, it means not taking care of it, does that man, in the meantime, from the moment he made that decision to the moment that it happened, change his mind about it? Whether it is available to all who need an authority, it is possible to check with this Law on the Amendments to the Traffic Safety Act on the Roads, therefore, that principle cannot endure. The second principle, the principle of medical justification for the transplant, and if it achieves the most favourable treatment. Where will it end and is it, will it end up in a place where it is most needed, who are, who judges about it? Will someone in this state and in this country where we are 23, where there is a terrible doubt about everything and everyone, suspect that his organ was taken away in a less clear situation, under not entirely clear and clear circumstances? The principle of security, which ensures that it is done in a safe and reliable place, under complete medical protection. One doctor told me, so you know what that means, another means in the translation “Yellow House” for easy and easy access to the organ. We know what was going on at the "Yellow House", if not all security measures are secure, then this is a nasty job we're in, in which we'd choose to engage. So, there's a little bit of a thing, there's too much superficially one serious topic being processed, and that's why I don't think a bill like this should be adopted, even though it's necessary to vote for an emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1957	I thank my colleague, Majkić. Is anyone else, colleague Nović answering for his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1958	Dear chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers. So I want to say a few sentences about this bill. Apparently, it would really be said that it is simple, but according to its structure and what it regulates would be said again that it is also very complex. Namely, the bill of law we see contains, the truth, only one attitude that provides for the addition of the basic text of the Law. What does this change essentially want to accomplish? We should have learned and learned from the reasons of this bill, if we are reading in detail, and we all seem to be reading the reasoning, it is said that the reasons for the adoption of this law are that, so it quotes in BiH, unlike a significant number of developed democratic countries, there is currently no possibility that persons are made known that they want to be organ donors in the event of death. It's amazing that this is explained, and I'm going to say why. The promoter also appreciates the urgency of the organ donation and the fact that relatives are largely unable to decide on these issues, another very interesting finding in the explanation. Furthermore, it states, and again, by giving citizens the opportunity to declare themselves when issuing, replacing or extending the driver's license whether they want to be organ donors, they would significantly improve the efficiency of this process, be careful to stress "the process", and save a number of lives. This is stated in the reasoning of the Law and so on. What do I think is the problem with this legal solution? The first and biggest problem is that this issue has already been regulated by the regulations in BiH, so we cannot say that no regulation has been regulated. It's arranged as well. I will remind you, the very subject of what we are considering today is in two legal solutions that have been in force long ago in BiH, and that in the Federation of BiH is the law on organ and tissue transplants in order to treat, not to mention what is the official newspaper. This Law lays down the conditions for the transplant of human organs and tissues from a living or dead person for treatment in the territory of the Federation of BiH. In accordance with Article 6(4) of this Act, therefore, the Federal Ministry of Health established the Centre for Transplantation, Transplanting Medicine as a federal management organisation as part of the Ministry for the implementation and transplantation of organs and tissues for the purposes of treatment and in accordance with Article 45 of the same Act. The Center for Transplanting Medicine of the Federal Ministry of Health is performing, among other things, the management of a person register that is compatible with organ and tissue donations after death. 24 In Republika Srpska, the Law on the Transplantation of Human Bodies, which also regulates the transplantation or parts of the organs of human origin, the principles of transplantation, the organisation, the conduct of professional-medical affairs and areas of transplantation, the process of transplanting, the taking of human organs from life, the living donor, the taking of human organs from the deceased and other issues that are very important. A Coordination Centre is also established, which also runs a single human organ donor register that has given consent to take the same in the event of its death. When you look deeper into those laws, which I would say, with very much attention being passed, because it is one of the most sensitive laws that is not in BiH, but usually causes interest, because it refers to citizens. A simple explanation for the proposing that in BiH, therefore, out of importance for the second number of developed democratic countries, there is no possibility that people can plead, that they want to be organ donors in the event of death, is not correct. Look at Article 30 of the Federal Law that regulates this area and I must also remind you and to all or to remind us, says attitude (1) – it is allowed to take organs and tissues from the dead person to transplant for the purpose of treatment only if the donor for life has agreed with the donation of organs and tissues after death. The attitude (2) says – a written statement on the giving of the organs and tissues referred to in the position (1) of this member of the adult person capable of judging gives the chosen physician or those primary healthcare physician and no one else, any more, written declaration of organ and tissue donation under the attitude (1), (2) and (3) of this article, as I have read, may be revoked at any time. What does that mean for us in the proposed text? On the contrary, therefore, we want this member to make a statement about giving, about... being an organ donor to police officers. Well, guys, let's be really reasonable people, which means in front of the counter when I come to file a driver's license application and tell them I want to be a donor. Remember when we introduced new ID cards, and only there said that the citizen's ID card can declare that he has a blood type, which was very positive, very important, so it is said in one of the members – the blood group can be entered solely on the basis of a document issued by the competent health authority. This is where we say, if we came to the counter and we said we would, I'd like to be a donor. What if after a month, two days that person, the driver, says I won't be a donor anymore, because he has a right to do so, he has to change his driver's license, it's financial expenditure, and not only that, the procedure for changing the driver's license is regulated by the Traffic Safety Act, it's not the reason for replacing the driver's license, as you'll change it, you have to take care of it, or we have to take care of it. Article 31 of the same law, federal, says – a written statement on the giving of the organs and tissues referred to in Article 30(2) of the Law on Transplantation in the Federation of Doctors of Primary Health provides the Ministry of Health, i.e. the Centre and it represents a professional secret, professional secret. The driver's license is a public document, the driver's license is all watched and what happens if it gets lost or lost. And not to stay yet because of Republika Srpska, in Article 39 of the same law, it is said – taking human organs from the deceased for transplants for treatment purposes can be carried out on the basis of a given and registered written consent for the life of the donor and with the consent of the family. It's even more rigid and sharper, so not he himself to give, but the family to give consent. This would be the opposite of that law. Written consent from the position (1) of this member shall be given before the authorised person of the Coordination Centre appointed by the Director of the Fourth Level Health Institute, with 25 seats in Banja Luka and the authorised person in a third-level health institution appointed by the Director and the institution, on the basis of the written consent given and recorded, the Coordination Centre and the health institution referred to in Article (2) shall issue to the potential donor the donor card in which the consent is recorded. So, since I've spent a lot of time, I've been meaning to say that this is not how we can propose laws like this. We have to take care of the system laws, and the Traffic Act is systemic, but in another area, and let's not do that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1959	I thank my colleague Nović. The word was asked for by a colleague, Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1960	I thank the chairman. I have nothing to add to these discussions of distinguished colleagues of Dušanka and Mr Nović. I understand Mr. Arnaut's intention and the problem that is evident regardless of these laws, this, in BiH that are present. Mr Nović knows this by performing the position of the minister of civil affairs for eight years, but here, I am not going out now, Minister Gudeljević, Bosnia and Herzegovina needs a better organised model of transplant medicine. Unfortunately, BiH is one of the last countries of the former Yugoslavia's decomposed countries in the area. The best experience in this is the Republic of Croatia, not only has it gained experience in relation to the countries of the former Yugoslavia, it is at the top of the world transplant medicine and in terms of taking... organs from cadver, so the person who has suffered a tragedy and where the possibilities, or consent to organ donation, have been identified, but during the waiting period you are doing so for very serious transplants, this, which, where have an exceptional success in heart, kidney, liver and other organs transplants. In BiH, this activity in both its entities is in a certain sense at the beginning. The danger that would threaten me, I'm sorry if I hadn't talked to Mr. Arnaut earlier this morning on the phone, while I was late for this session, the danger could potentially cause unseen consequences. So, in the sense of even the world's most orderly countries, who are trying this and who could say that they have, in the right sense, top medicine and this found abuses with incredible situations, even in countries governed by, therefore, the rule of law. We think in this situation it might not be enough even these laws that entities have on organ transplants without sublegal acts and high-level control. Normally people will seek health care where the best medicine is, someone from Zvornik will go to Tuzlo without any thought at all when you have this top, but you must have a procedure that will not be the subject of abuse. And the world's best top transplant experts can be on the verge of crime if you don't have this procedure legally resolved so that we don't abuse ourselves without talking about how it might be with us. Normally I have to, I have, I even had situations amazing, even here's the word, neighbouring Republic of Serbia, when they called me for a 27-year-old guy who needed a heart transplant, if he could go over BiH to Eurotransplant, unfortunately the guy died didn't welcome it. BiH must deal with issues in accordance with its constitutional structure in order to get its membership in Eurotransplant as the largest association, the world's highest quality medicine, except, therefore, in addition to US and medicine in EU member states as soon as possible. Normally some other countries have developed this big, we should not underestimate Turkey or China, you can imagine how much it is. 26 Now what is, what here in the whole situation should be, is not, in a potential situation in the book if it were written, it's an extraordinary way to trade organs, regardless, it can't be said that they're all honest, we can't say that it's anything. You need to go, see how these countries are, here's what I said in the environment best solved. The Republic of Croatia has been doing an amazing campaign and they have created awareness among citizens about having an identification card that, I think, is a medical document in front of the Ethics Committee and that every time, this one can even check or recall if it is not ready. I think we should work on that. We're not gonna do anything about this. What would we do? We have a partial solution here, even if it were possible, for one who is just taking out this driver's license in his driver's license to write it or one who renews the driver's license, and now imagine how a lot of people in this whole situation would be in this situation right now, a paranoia that we've been told on condition, and conspiracy theories, because the pandemic of this coronary virus and all of that, suspiciousness, we would have an enormous deviation from this principle. I think we need to have a conversation both at BiH level and within the Health Sector of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, have a higher degree of coordination and come up with a solution in which we would not be late, it is unfair, we still have potential, we have better potential than Montenegro and Macedonia, but unfortunately we are at the bottom of all of this. There is no justification for the constitutional structure for lateness in these issues as to the lack of a vision and in the field of health care and therefore, I am being treated from this possibility because of possible abuses. And in order not to turn out now that someone from Republika Srpska is against it, no, the only obligation at EU level, they say only in the end, is therefore a uniform education system in the field of health and therefore the possibility, therefore, of the full passing of every citizen of EU member states in terms of achieving health care not only in the country of origin, but also in the member states. This is not an obstacle in BiH now, although it is not enough developed goodwill yet, but I mean citizens, normally, will not seek a good politician, if they need a heart or something, they will seek cardio surgeons and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1961	Thank you, fellow Prodanović. The word was asked for by a colleague of Bradar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1962	So since we have a agenda point here, which is this bill on amendments to the Road Traffic Safety Act, and we have touched this particular topic justifiably. Since I have been able to take part several times in the adoption of this law at the level of the Federation and its amendments, I think that we, colleagues involved in this work, were aware of the deep ethical, moral, religious, and each other, except for the health issue of this issue. So, this is not at all simple and I think this law is as it is proposed, essentially discriminatory, which is with people who don't have a driver's license, they don't intend to have it, and there's a large number of people in this country who don't have it, and I think it's at the beginning of that law discriminating. What is currently in force in the Federation is that since 2017 you need to explicitly bring a card that you are an opponent of organ donation, all who do not have that card are potential donors, because the team from organ transplants, different associations, assured us that it is much closer to Eurotransplant and that it is easier for people to get to the organs, and then we have brought amendments and additions to such a law and by that law, so it really takes consent, if you did not or didn't know that you needed to declare that you are an opponent, you need family consent, and if you are and if you are not, which I think is worth it anyway, because we just had a lot of doubts about it. What is a problem and 27 that we, regardless of organ transplants, need to develop, centers that will deal with this human activity, all this is good as long as it happens to someone else, but when you have someone close to you who needs an organ, then you become aware of how important it is. And this exists... and also in your proposal, this is very much to talk about, but I don't think this is the subject of today's law and I don't think it's true that this law does not require financial resources, because the issue of every document that is related to the CIPS, especially the creation of a new design, certainly requires significant financial resources, so I think that this fact that this law does not require financial resources does not stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1963	I thank my colleague Bradar. We don't have any more charges to discuss. Let us, therefore, plead, vote on the procedure, therefore, on whether or not we will consider the bill as an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Let me get this straight. So present 14 – for 7, versus 5, abstention 2. The Federation of BiH – 4 against 4, abstention 2. Republika Srpska – 3 for, vs. 1 abstentioned no one. We don't have a general, we don't have an entity majority. So, I find a request to consider the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Basicity of Traffic on Roads to BiH, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure have not been adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1964	It's adopted, it's adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1965	It was adopted, yes, and adopted by emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1966	It is adopted, yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1967	Ah, okay, it's adopted by emergency procedure, so I apologize. Now let's go, then, to the second round. I'm opening a debate. There's no one here. Let us be clear, who is in favor of the adoption of the law by an emergency procedure? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] To adopt that, therefore, in the ordinary. 28 _________(?) We're voting on the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1973	...entity, I'm sorry, there's an entity.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1974	Oh, that's right, how. Are we gonna do it again? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please repeat the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1976	So, what are we voting on?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1977	We vote, well, well, we vote on the Labour Report of BiH for 2019. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1978	The report, not the Commission's report.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1979	About the report, no, no, we vote in the second round,
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1980	Second round of voting.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1981	Second round of voting on the report. So present 14 – for 6, versus 4, abstention 4. The Federation of BiH -- six against four, abstention four.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1982	Here I beg to repeat, since I haven't been able to vote...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1983	Please repeat it again. Just take it easy, it'll all come right. So present 14 – for 8, versus 4, abstention 2. Federation of BiH – for 8, against no one, abstention 2. Republika Srpska – for no one, against 4 abstentioned no one. So we don't have a majority from Republika Srpska and I'm saying, we have, therefore, 2/3 against, therefore, that the report on the work of the BiH Defence Office for 2019 has not been adopted. We're going to the sixth point, Ad. Six. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "Digitalisation of the TV signal in BiH", submitr: BiH Institutions Audit Office, issue: 02/3-16-10-2464/20 of 23. 12. 2020 You have received the opinion of the Finance Commission and the budget of the People's House, the Commission adopted the Report. The House of Representatives adopted the Report at its 16th session, held on 03.02.2021. I give my word to Mrs Dušanka Majkić, chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission, if there is any need? No, thank you. I give the word to the bearer, if he is present and has needs. _________(?) No, I don't. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1986	Mr. Sarajlić.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1987	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1988	It's a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1989	Mr. Sarajlić reporting for his word, I apologize... app. Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1990	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Since the promoter is present, and here the Commission has given a positive opinion on this report and the House of Representatives has shown itself about him, I would suggest that, since he is here, I would ask a few things, since the topic – Report on the impact audit carried out on the subject: "Digitalisation of the TV signal in BiH". I'd like to ask the following: 1. Why is the audit not further and more detailed on the scope of the use and impact of the equipment supplied, why is the review not at all treated with the property issue over the equipment? 2. Why was that equipment even purchased when the corporation didn't come back to life? 3. Why the recommendations of the review did not indicate and recommend that the next phases of digitisation involve investing more than 30 million KMs that must be monitored by implementing the Public Broadcasting Act, i.e. forming a final corporation? It's not all about reviewing, but you had to keep in mind these few facts, so I'd like you to answer these three questions for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1991	I thank my colleague Sarajlić. The word was requested by counterpart Bećirović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1992	I think this is a multiple important topic for all of BiH and that there is also a need to talk about this issue. The digitalisation of the TV signal in BiH is related to two key things that we must consider. First, under number one, it is a strategic definition of the authorities of BiH, and second, equally important, it is an international commitment of the BiH state in line with the Geneva Broadcasting Plan, and it is logical that we here in the state 32 parliament, here is a colleague of Sarajlić who has raised several important issues, but also to shed light on and point to different aspects of this, I repeat, important issues for BiH and all its citizens. Here I would like to remind you of one fact that the digitalisation process in Croatia has been completed in just four years, in Serbia for about nine years, in BiH the process has been going on for 16 years and we still don't see the end of it. We need to talk about it and all together make a contribution to the executive and legislative authorities that we finally have one effective and clear map of movement to complete this process. Because if we don't, I'm afraid we'll have serious consequences. I must say, too, that the authorities for the need for digitisation so far have decided to approve over 39 million converting marks. So far, these needs have been spent, according to my knowledge, somewhere around 6.7 million converting marks and the Audit Office, among other things, is talking about it. What is also very important for us is to see what the situation is with BiH citizens, and the finding that a large number of BiH citizens has been denied for a quality TV signal, a digital TV signal, absolutely stands and we have to warn that fact. In the material that we have received, I hope and read in detail, among other things, some recommendations have been made, direct obligations and according to the Ministry of Communications and Transport to create and deliver to whoever needs a concrete plan of activity, obligations, deadlines, business bearers, to finally see it here in the state authorities. It is also recommended that the Council of Ministers ensure an independent supervision of the activity, as well as that we have reports on it on a regular basis. I think those are things that shouldn't stand. Why am I saying that BiH could have serious consequences? So I even think BiH is threatening a very serious blockade if things don't work out here. The existing permits for public broadcasters in BiH for analogue broadcasting expired on 20 April 2020, permits for analogue broadcasting of private TV stations expire in 2021, so this year. Do you know what that means? After the end of these RAC broadcasting permits in BiH, in line with international obligations, they will not be able to protect analogue frequencies if requested for digital needs. What's next in the report that's in front of us? Look at the side, let's say, 30 that, where we talk about conclusions. Who are the responsible institutions that don't do this the way they're supposed to? These are the Council of Ministers, the competent ministry and the RAC that failed to ensure effective and timely implementation of the digitisation activities. It is our duty as the highest legislative authority in the BiH state to warn about it, because we too have the mechanisms to make this thing serious. Poor management of digitisation activities, without clear plans, without clearly identified responsibilities, have caused all deadlines to end the digitisation process to be breached. We need to take these findings seriously. But what I have reported first of all about this agenda point is BiH citizens, because due to the delay of this digital TV signal they are currently suffering from citizens, they are not provided with a quality terrestrial broadcast TV signal, which is why people are forced to pay other, alternative, visions of TV signal distribution, and I am now particularly apostropheming the poorest citizens of BiH who are unable to pay these other aspects of TV signal distribution, and in BiH, if they believe serious statistics, nearly seven thousand people are below the poverty line. When you cross those facts, compare them, then you really see how serious that is. So in addition to what my predecessor was talking about, I think that it makes sense for us to point out this thing well today, to be serious, to call on the public ministry responsible to prepare a concrete plan to end the activities of the digitalisation of the TV signal, along with these recommendations we have heard, but also to include the Council of Ministers of BiH to provide independent supervision, but also to keep reporting and the state parliament going. We often forget some things, be careful if we here in the House of Peoples and in the House of Representatives, as elected representatives of 33 citizens and the people of BiH, do not discuss this in the competent authorities and bodies of this country, so secondly, and I repeat, it is important for ordinary people in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1993	I thank my colleague Bećirović. Word requested by colleague Dušanka Majkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1994	So this is an impact review, in the selection of topics to be handled by the BiH Institutions Audit Office, it should make sure that it finds this multidisciplinary team working on impact audits are such as to help us with decision-making. What did we get with this impact review? I have therefore responded to the Commission for Finance and Budget, that this is an unfortunately chosen topic for impact review. Why? Because it says -- the goal is to establish, therefore, the objective of this revision is to determine whether BiH institutions are effective in carrying out digitisation activities. So wait, is there anyone who has no answer to it and who knows who it is not known to? As long as it's so late, they're not effective, are they? So, the impact review itself was accidentally chosen. When you look at this part of the conclusions, or especially recommendations, there are always some serious topics that require all institutions to engage in this, so it declares who these key institutions are, means the Council of Ministers, meaning the Ministry of Communication and Transport and the RAC. So wait, for so many years, didn't it occur to anyone to sit down and put all these inconsistencies and inability to make a deal on the table and say we see what we can do. Because in this country, there's nothing to agree on, and there's nothing to reach an agreement on, that's, that's the situation with digitization. You may have no idea how good they're going, but they're as good as they're real, obviously this one's not real. We had representatives, different representatives of the government at the Ministry of Communications and Transport, there is....because of which the project does not go, I remember that once, that someone talked about it and said – hey, the equipment came and said my equipment should go to your rooms, if not mine, other people's equipment in my rooms. So then there were the essential things that were problematic. The same reason, this is, this just shows the situation in BiH, as it is, why there are no more laws from the Council of Ministers, so they are not there because no deal can be reached. There is not a single initiative that the Bosniak ministers will urge, I think primarily of the SDA, if they are the bearers of the Serbian people's initiative, that I do not speak from Croatia they know better. There's no deal, people, whether it shows anyone that he cares, whether they want to make a deal. This country would already show, if it were a normal country, to show such elements. So talk about digitisation in the context of this that the Ministry of Communication needs to develop a plan of activities with deadlines of responsibility for continuing the digitisation process. You can see the auditor was suffering, he doesn't know what to do, he doesn't have anything to do, and he's got to finish the audit. And secondly, the Council of Ministers needs to ensure independent supervision and work on reporting on... so, unseriously. So, for the first time in my life for as many years as I am in Parliament, it's something that I voted against the revision, because it's inadmissible for the revision to choose its own subject from which it does not know how to come out. And these issues, which are Sarajlić's colleagues, are not questions for review and cannot be answered by the audit. You know whose jurisdiction it is and who needs to answer it. Thank you. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1995	I thank my colleague, Majkić. There is no more, Denis Bećirović, a correction to the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1996	First of all, this is not an unfortunately selected topic, nor can anyone in the state parliament say "Revision Office", if something has been approved by over 39 million converting marks, and that is not a small number at all, if a little more than 6 million has been realised so far, why would it be an unfortunately chosen topic. We need to discuss this, the Office of Audit should deal with these issues. Are these things that stand in the review, including recommendations, including what fellow Sarajlić was talking about, being implemented? Well, of course they are, we just have to act like this is a legal state. It is, I repeat, the strategic commitment of the state authorities that have agreed and should be implemented. And number two, it's an international commitment that needs to be implemented. And why there is no law more than the Council of Ministers, why are blockades and obstructions, so it's clear to everyone who is a policy and why that is so, it's only because some political centres want to prove their impossible thesis on so-called. The impossible state, which is why they're blocking everything. But it's a bad job, and unfortunately, citizens suffer because of that kind of policy.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1997	I thank my colleague Bećirović. No more reports. Is there anyone in the audit office that wants to answer questions? Here you go. Deputy Chief Auditor.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1998	Dear Chairman, members of the College, delegates, delegates, distinguished guests, I warmly welcome you all. My name is jasmin Pilica, I am the deputy general auditor, and above all I wish to convey to you apologies on behalf of Mr Hrvoje Tvrtković, the general auditor, who has been positive for some seven days, thank Bog he is stable, but for this reason he could not attend this session. I would like to point out that regarding this report, the digitisation of the TV signal in BiH is a strategic commitment and an international commitment taken over by BiH that has not been met so far. The digitalisation of the TV signal in BiH implies, according to distinguished delegate Majkić, that it is clear to all, but that is what we have done, that shutting down analogue broadcasting of TV programmes to BiH and moving to digital earth broadcasting is in line with the internationally accepted Geneva broadcasting plan. As for the specific issue of the respected delegate Sarajlić, I will draw attention to the fact that on page 9 we have the goal and scope of the audit itself and the audit issues itself in this report were concrete – were BiH institutions effective in the process of introducing a digital terrestrial TV signal? This issue has resulted in two sub-questions of audit – Are the digital broadcasting activities carried out in a timely manner and what are the consequences of delays? The second sub-question was – Are the digital broadcasting activities well planned in view of the activities, responsibilities and deadline for the completion of the digitisation process? 35 We at the Audit Office, therefore, the team that worked this report, team leader and auditor, also the Head of the Impact Review Department, the Head of the Impact Control Department, then the Professional College, and the Management, thought that it was successfully responsible for these two issues and that they were to give findings, conclusions and recommendations that are quite clear. I believe that the questions raised by the distinguished delegate Sarajlić have been asked and I do not think that, although I was at the meeting of the House of Representatives itself, that MP Mušić asked the same question, that these issues are relevant anyway, but we simply do not enter the auditors into their audit judgment when one subject is determined, when audit issues are asked, they are simply given according to standards and their independence they are given to do certain audits, and any questions specific which may arise as a conclusion in order to make another revision, perhaps a little wider, perhaps in some other area, which may be the conclusion of the commission, so the working body of Parliament itself or even at home. Afterwards, the auditor-general shall consider these conclusions and assess whether they will include it in the plan for the next year. Here I hope that at least I've been able to answer your questions in part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u1999	Thank you very much, Mr. Pilica. So there's no more charges for discussion. Let's vote, we're voting on the report on an impact review on the subject – the digitalisation of the TV signal in BiH. At present 15 – for 10, v 4, abstention 1. The Federation of BiH -- for 10, against no one, abstentioned no one. Republika Srpska – for no one, against 4, abstention 1. We have a general, we don't have an entity majority. Are we going to the second round? _________(?) We can. We can. Let's make a statement in the second round. So present 15 – for 9, versus 4, abstention 2. Federation of BiH – for 9, nobody, abstention 1. Republika Srpska – for no one, against 4, abstention 1. We have 2/3 against the entity. So, I find the Impact Review Report on the topic – The digitalisation of the TV signal in BiH has not been adopted. 36 We move to point seven, Ad. Seven. Report on the impact audit carried out on the subject "Planning and conducting training of employees in BiH institutions", submitr: Office for the Review of BiH institutions, issue: 02/3-16-10-2465/20 of 23. 12. 2020
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2007	So, there is something to say here, because wherever the IGA theme appears, therefore, the BiH Export Credit Agency is causing a big surprise, causing a big surprise for those who have been in Parliament for years, and wherever those who have been there since yesterday are not familiar with the IGA events. Now that the situation in IGA is so that it can't work anymore, then people have all wondered what we're going to do now, or how we're going to get out of all of this. And then when you look at that begraund, what's happened so far and when you see the way it's been handled in all of that, then it's a logical sequence that we're in this situation that we're in today when it comes to this institution. IGA was established in 1997, and this was established for the implementation of the emergency start-up of the World Bank-funded industry in 1999, the IGA launched the implementation of the World Bank project of 8.900,000 special rights to pull-off and this amount is used to fund and prepare exports, finance and protection against war risk, and these were the World Bank's intentions to do, to help BiH. Look, time goes by, we still don't have the law, the Export Credit Agency Act that it was founded on, it only appeared in 2004, until then Republika Srpska didn't even... nobody asked her what she thought about it, how it should be... and whether it should be included at all. So nothing, she was completely unknown in that segment. But then it happened that the founding capital that had to be introduced by forming, passing laws and forming IGAs amounting to 51 million, about 51 million marks was determined by the World Bank, 38 million are credit assets, and 13 million are donation funds. And now someone here has said, and those are, that they are free of charge, these donations belong to BiH institutions, and loans belong to entities. Republika Srpska then came out and said it can't, it can't be, we can be all carriers of each other, it can't be how I choose what suits me, and the other one can handle it, let the entities solve it. So, what else is important? The law that was passed in 2004, it's such a bad law, it hasn't solved any key question that every law needs to solve, so imagine what it says, so it's not... IGA is not an institution of BiH, which, the Agency is an independent, non-deposit and non-profit legal person, is careful of non-profit organisations, with full powers operating in accordance with liquidity principles and ensuring business without loss. The Agency shall be empowered to enter into contracts on its own, to obtain and dispose of movable and immovable assets and to be party to the dispute. Finally, the provisions of the Law on State Service in BiH institutions do not apply to persons employed by the Agency. So out of the system. You don't have anything in place that's crucial to this, it should have been inter-minister advice. Who makes interminister advice? A representative of the finance and vault ministry, a representative of the foreign trade and economic relations ministry and two representatives of entity ministries responsible for this, means the finance ministry. It's never been formed ministerially, why? Entities have seen where the IGA is going and they've slowly gotten away with it, so both entities have become unsupervised for IGA, because the IGA output is not possible. She was in debt and gave guarantees where she shouldn't and in quantity, values she shouldn't have. The situation is totally messy, reports have been filed for years, Parliament, as a hot potato, has been running through its hands, the Council of Ministers has asked that the World Bank, which is the founder of the IGA, to determine what to do with it. And World Bank 39 has offered five solutions and said, just first, which is to let IGA go out, is a solution that does not require BiH institutions to give any money for it. You have to tell everyone else who's gonna pay the costs. How many? I don't know, if someone knew how much that money IGA owed, that would be interesting. And why, now everybody's quiet, why are you quiet? Well, it doesn't suit them, it suits them to pass the World Bank's first proposal, which is to shut down and form, now to form a new one, I don't know, because both entities have institutions that do the job, they're no longer interested. Another effort was made by the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury and invited her, so let's see what to do,...not at all interested entities to deal with IGA. So we don't have a lot of choices, the ones that got involved afterwards, so now they have ideas, they need this, they need it, but we need to read a little bit of what happened before, and the way that we've come to this point, to realize that if we have any version other than this first one that the World Bank has given, we need to tell us right now who's going to pay for it and where it's going to be paid. So, and all of what it looks like, IGA doesn't have a chance, and you should see that maybe that's the only thing that would be meaningful, that the Council of Ministers sees how all of this can be brought to an end and help her actually, because she wants to change the law and get rid of it so that the court can block her, so imagine who can release someone at this time, that the court can block it. So, you need to do this job with dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2008	Thank you. A colleague named Miletić answered for his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2009	I won't be chairing long, here's what Mrs. Majkić said, just to make one addition, I think that's correct. I am, as Mrs. Majkić said, one of those who came yesterday, and it is a shame that the issue of this agency is being left aside for so many years and that no one wants to solve it. What exactly do I want to say? If you look at page 12 of this document and page 13, you have here a list of cases where courts throughout BiH have ruled in a first-degree procedure for the prosecutor's benefit that the competent agency is liable only on the basis of one firm, which is the UNIS of Dervente, to pay almost 34 million. When you take this in your own way as a layman, it means that there are obviously illegal actions here that have occurred within that agency, and indeed by these individuals, owners of these private companies who have used these guarantees, which IGA actually gives. That's one aspect of the problem. The other aspects are their claims, which you have on page 13, which are huge. So you have almost two hundred million. The third aspect, currently IGA has given guarantees, not to mention BiH businesses here, means I speak abroad, worth over 50m euros. So if she can't work, under the supposed signs, here's what I'm going to do, and it's going to go out, so much money to go down, and it's just for these companies to be so negligent, so irresponsible, not to say such a crime, to close our eyes, and turn around and let this all go away, I don't think it's okay. What I'm going to ask you, and the chairman has said this well, please say once again, under the alleged signs, these conclusions made by the commission, I think it's the only right way to try this question to solve, and this you have, at least we mentioned, two 40 institutions, it's interesting to note here when the competent agency has addressed the BiH Attorney General in terms of who will pay off this money, this money, this 30 and some million will pay off the BiH state. The D.A. said they weren't in charge of this. Which is funny in itself, isn't tomorrow when these fees come in, for God's sakes, they'll take you out of the BiH institutions' budget, you'll see 100 per cent. So, please, when it comes to this case, this case or the work on this IGA, two things are very important, so first we should include the BiH Attorney General. And the other thing, given that we got information on the commission, allegedly that SIPA is investigating and the state's attorney's office all of this, that we're looking for information about these actions that are going on there, here's to not say for a decade, let's see if there's any of this investigation and how far it's just come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2010	Thank you. I don't see that there are any more reported for, there's Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2011	Correction of the wrong allegation. I begged the commission not to adopt such a conclusion. Why? The D.A. addressed the IGA and clearly told her, we, it's not our jurisdiction and we have nothing to do with it. So, to adopt a new one, that's what it's like to see the commission pull out, so let's just figure something out, it doesn't matter, so we're going to rewrite the conclusions of the House of Representatives, whether they're standing or not. There's no point in doing that. The D.A.'s office isn't competent, they said it clearly, and there's no need to suffer, we're just stalling the problem. And secondly, it is said that the prosecution is asked to make information about the realization of the conclusion of the House of Peoples, which is that the prosecution is involved. So wait, please, when the prosecution pleaded on certain cases that are under way, so don't let us, let's put forward, comedian conclusions. So there's no point in adopting this paper either, but there's still no point in adopting this conclusion. Because what we're going to do, what we're going to get, by adopting this conclusion, we're going to move something, we're not going to keep IGA sinking. What they're looking for is at the next point we're gonna talk about what they're telling us, what they're looking for to survive. So it's absurd to adopt these conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2012	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2013	Thank you, Chairman. It is evident here that big money has disappeared, that huge material damage has been done, so hundreds of millions of marks are about money that is the money of the citizens of BiH, so both entities and BiH as a state have participated in creating this agency and creating this situation. Since money is like energy, it can't evaporate, it ends up in someone's pockets. Now the question is what happens next, who is responsible for this situation, if anyone was responsible for the misjudgement that this money was given to companies, which apparently failed and that money ended up somewhere, were made poor risk assessments when deciding on whether there were political influences on it, and that they were asking around a little who owns the UNIS Dervent, perhaps we could conclude that it has a much greater risk than the one they agreed to and this way they brought into the situation of society and citizens to pay off now those marifeluks. Because it's about a man who is directly connected to the part of the political summit in BiH and my conclusion is, if someone gives him such guarantees and so much money, that it has to do with it and it's a normal conclusion, but it's a matter of the judiciary and the judicial authorities, which should be questioned, and who don't do their job, we all know what the justice and what it does and what the BiH Prosecutor's Office doesn't do, and now we have a situation like we do. Now the question is what to do, how or how to reduce the damage. Ms. Majkić advocates, apparently, for the variant to shut down IGA, if IGA
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2014	The World Bank. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2015	No, the World Bank said these are variants that are possible, the World Bank didn't say shut down so, but she said these are your options that are possible. And you know what happens when it goes out? Those who have taken the money, the money remains in their pockets, these processes that are now being conducted before the courts to collect these pairs stop by that act. I was frustrated when IGA representatives, so the board of directors and directors of the commission say they will, that they will stop the process of collecting claims, which are being conducted now in front of the courts, because they have no money to pay a lawyer to go there, and there are no lawyers employed in the IGA. Well, isn't that something that smells like corruption, their failure to appear at trial, and what they do most, means that money is left behind, these millions of marks are left in the pockets of those people. So it's a serious problem, the government can't escape from solving that problem. Everyone here is running away from solving the problem, the problem itself is not going to be solved, everyone has been running for years, so this is about ten years here is not about some event that happened, I don't know, a year, two or three, this is about the long process and the management of IGA is from the beginning, from the founding up to now the same thing. Therefore, this situation should be taken seriously and that is why I advocate this conclusion: That BiH's Attorney General is asked to be involved in the protection of property, i.e. the money of BiH citizens, so as not to allow court proceedings to be put out. And that is why the Commission's conclusion is being put into it, that is to say, the House of Peoples is asking the BiH Attorney's Office to involve itself in this and I think it is correct, that is, the job of the pravobranilaštvo or the D.A.'s office, since entities have been involved in all this, in order to directly engage in the rescue of what can be saved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2016	I thank my colleague Bosić. Correction of the wrong quote, Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2017	So, I repeat, the World Bank has entered a founding stake in IGA worth fifty-five million, of which 38 million were assets that were given as loans, which now entities are returning, and what, 13 million were, that was a donation and that's all. IGA, meanwhile, concluded contracts with other financial institutions, insurance houses, 42 resecuring houses and attracted much larger portfolios, they received significant funds because they enjoyed trust, the Derventa factory carried 20.30% of the value of exports of products that were very wanted. IGA would have probably progressed if there hadn't been an economic crisis, if there hadn't been a fall of steel on the world market, and because of that, that's why it failed. So, BiH institutions only repay the amount of the founding debt of 38 million, all the other assets that stand over our heads, that overfunding, there's nothing to pay back, so we'll pay it back if we choose from the five four, only the first one doesn't mean it, so.... we did not, the Council of Ministers made that decision but the World Bank made five choices and said choose which of those five options. So, you have to say clearly, so when you say citizens, we've all benefited from it, so companies are funded, and it would probably still be so that it didn't happen. So you can't tell a story about that that's all huge resources, we're not going back in the case of that first item, and that's why I support that item, because it can't be ripped apart otherwise.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2018	.... correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2019	No, I'm on the line that we're all, the replica on the claim that we've all benefited from this,
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2020	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2021	The benefits of this are, the fat benefits of individuals, at the expense of society and citizens, and here it is exactly... how, whatever topic we open, everything comes back to the question of non-functioning of the judiciary. Therefore, this is the case, and it is evident that things that should explain what was going on until the end, and this can only be the judicial system, and this should be done by the Prosecutor's Office, i.e. the law enforcement authorities, the SIPA and those who are in charge of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2022	Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2023	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow delegates. Well, I wondered if I should even talk about these things, I think we're in the middle of devising institutions, and we're deep into this phase. When it enters the genealogy of IGA formation, maybe someone I don't know what ambitions it had, they're the founders of entities and international financial institutions. Why are we discussing this today? So, after that, the law was just made, but what's not right in the genealogy itself, that IGA at the start gave a guarantee over a portfolio that can, several times, there's a problem and instead of going back to the starting point here, I've been here for a long time, looking at the commission, so it's the one, so it's the one that hasn't moved, I think BiH institutions haven't had the need to engage in this since the beginning, but have been introduced to not go back to where the problem is and still taps into place, so still. So, first and foremost, who can force someone, which is a conflict between international and domestic ambitions, I won't say desire, whether there's crime or not, let them question whoever they want. So, who can run 43 IGAs today to say bail ten times as much as you have a guarantee portfolio. Whether they get it or not, it doesn't matter who suggested it. Until it comes to that we will have... as we have from mandate to mandate a conclusion on the conclusion, to question this one, to question that one. They all know well, so they know those World Bank people where they've made a failure and a problem, and when they saw they can't get there, they're looking, they're saying we know it's not your jurisdiction, they're looking for an address somewhere where they can get the problem down, not to solve it. If you didn't know, so IGA's people shut down, except no one said it in public, we're spinning around dead stuff. A long time ago there was a gap, and I agree that it should be the organs to determine, as soon as possible... Does this country need any export guarantee agencies? You should. That's for sure remember what I tell you, it's not IGA, it's not her now, it's not gonna be her. So we have to go back to exactly the source who formed it, why it formed it, why today's founders don't recognize their child. Why don't they admit why the World Bank doesn't admit that it's ___________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2026	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. We debated this a long time yesterday on the committee, and in most cases we agreed, and that is why I cannot accept this approach by my colleague, Majkićka, when his colleague said that it was something contradictory to what we concluded yesterday. What my colleague Bosić was saying and he and I were talking about yesterday, uh, but now, from everything and what you said in the Špirić, which you said in the end, because you're certainly more forward to this than I am, I learned this a little more yesterday on the commission, besides the information they gave from this agency. The fact is, I've gotten the impression that it's a dead agency, but you don't know how to get out, but all you're commenting on the damages are huge, everyone here smells like a big crime. But let's just go around, it's not here, it's on the other side. Well, wait, they're the founders of entities, but it's impossible, they're the founders of entity, right.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2027	44 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2028	But it couldn't have gone either without the Council of Ministers, given that this agency is, so she has someone involved. So, yesterday we were informed that, if anything, I don't know which part of the funds, but that loan is coming back, returning it, the state is returning it, or when I say the state within the state exists, it's being returned by someone. Suddenly we comment on nothing happens. The conclusion that we are, it is not true that fellow Miletić said, we are asking to be involved, it was announced yesterday that, from the agency, that it is already working... we only said yesterday, it would be correct to inform us about this, as long as, at what stage, not affecting either court or the judiciary at all, or anyone, but we simply have the right to such large things where the consequences arise to seek information. For a long time, the lawyer's question, never, I don't know why you're pushing so hard that their answer is right when they say they're not in charge, they're in charge, if they want to work, to protect the state, and they are in any institution of the state, they have to do it. And until what was arranged, so yesterday, what Bosić said to him, there are no lawyers who will come out to represent them, so normally if that party does not go to court which is.... there will be judgments. Someone cares, someone who sues at the end of the day that this side is not interested and doesn't come simply to court, a normal verdict for the absence, it's a familiar thing. But then it's set up, and who's actually directing this situation, this isn't about thousands, it's about big big millions. Whoever it is, I don't know, but I don't know why we don't insist, whoever the organs can solve... at least if anything else can explain to us what it's all about. Here I get the impression someone's more directed, someone less, but we don't know what it's all about, we just know it's big... and we know even further, the guarantees are given again. So it goes on in circles, when it stops, when you put the dot. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2029	I thank my fellow Munib. No one's answering for a hearing anymore. I'm closing the debate. So we are voting on the conclusion of the Committee on Foreign Trogy, Politics, Customs and Traffic and Communications of the House of Peoples. At present 15 – for 10, v 4, abstention 1. The Federation of BiH -- for 10, against no one, abstentioned no one. Republika Srpska – for no one, against 4, abstention 1. Can we go to the second round? _________(?) You got it. Let's go round two. So present 15 – for 10, v 4, abstention 1. The Federation of BiH -- for 10, against no one, abstentioned no one. Republika Srpska – for no one, against 4, abstention 1. I therefore conclude that the Commission for Foreign Trade, Politics, Customs, Transport and Communications has not been adopted at home. 45 We vote on the report on the work of the Management Board of the BiH Export and Credit Agency for 2019. At present 15 – for 9, versus 4, abstention 2. Federation of BiH – for 9, against no one, abstention 1. Republika Srpska – for no one, against 4, abstention 1. So we don't have the entity majority. Are we going to the second round? _________(?) We're going to the second round.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2035	In short, we don't have an epilogue on this IGA material. So a few conclusions that are in circulation: 1. To ensure legal assistance to IGA so that it can protect and defend its interests in the upcoming court disputes, by borrowing BiH's Attorney General and by hiring a law firm. What does that mean? We don't have any money. pravobranilaštvo main transaction account has been blocked. So, just so I'm not saying anything, here's no more words to add. 2. To execute an emergency account deblockation, please be careful, to execute a deblockation of accounts by adopting amendments and supplementing the Law establishing the IGA or atonement of obligations on the basis of a court ruling from budget funds. So please wait, so these two options, let's make the new law quick, we're blocked, there's a procedure, so it doesn't mean that every proposal that comes to Parliament has to be adopted. So, what they're thinking is that someone rips everybody's ears out to say, you need to pass that law as soon as you can, or you need to give it out of the budget. So who are you, an NGO, who should dare? 3. Establish interminist advice as a key body providing guidance for IGA's work. She is in such a position as she is, which is not an inter-ministral council, means the Ministry of Finance and Treasury representative, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations representative, and by two representatives of entity finance ministries, there is none of that and at the end of 4. Form a task force composed of representatives of the Council of Ministers, the government of entities and IGAs, which will work on further guidelines for finding a solution. So wait, I mean, all these years after you talk about what hasn't been realized all these years, and when there was a lot more chance of this ending is absurd. Well, here's everyone to judge by, about that. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2036	I thank my colleague, Majkić. ... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2037	Thank you very much, but it really seems a little confusing, we didn't adopt yesterday, you should have said whose suggestions are these. These are suggestions, if I get it right, these agencies, which we absolutely yesterday, I agree here... no one on that yesterday is... quite new, other conclusions, it turns out confusing now that these are the conclusions proposed by this committee,
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2038	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2039	Because that commission didn't absolutely propose this. Second, again, another line around the D.A.'s office. If nothing else, here we know we don't even need to drag in now, I if I were to decide then absolutely beyond what I think they are, uh, competent, if there's nothing else legal, they're saying they don't have a lawyer, they don't have anything, they should have a lawyer to go on behalf of the state, so at least explain there, that it's an independent organization, that it's nonprofit, that it's like this, that it's like that, if nothing else to refuse attacks to explain the situation, that it's not, that it's trying to refuse attacks from the state and its institutions. But not like this, this is how everyone works so that all those who sue can get, someone will pay off those funds. But it's impossible since we already know it, so regardless of whose resources it means it's someone, someone suspicious... we're obliged to react. Unfortunately, I don't understand some things, but here's to keeping them from being understood. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2040	... Jusufović. [[no microphone turned on]] Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the Information on the state of play at the BiH Export Credit Agency caused by the blockade of the main transaction account. At present 15 – for 9, versus 5, abstention 1. The Federation of BiH -- for 9, versus 1. abstentioned no one. Republika Srpska – for no one, against 4, abstention 1. Are we going to the second round of voting? _________(?) Let's go. 48 Let's go. Give me a second lap. So present 15 – for 8, versus 5, abstention 2. Federation of BiH – for no one, against 1st abstention 1. Republika Srpska – for no one, against 4, abstention 1. So, I find that we have, therefore, the information on the state of play at the BiH Export-Credit Agency caused by the blockade of the main transaction account has not been adopted. Moving to point 11. Ad. 11. Report on the establishment of a proposal for candidate rankings for the appointment of members: (a) Independent Committee and (b) of the Committee on Appeals of Citizens, as independent bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure, delivered by the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Houses for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of members of the Independent Committee and the Committee on Citizens' Appeals, as independent bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure, issue: 01.02-34-1197/21 of 22. 01. 2021
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2043	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'd be without any restraint for a proposal like this if one wrong prefix didn't stand, and that's here "independent".
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2044	What, independent?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2045	Independent, is he, standing here independent, for independent. If this is independent, then I'm Napoleon. Thank you very much, why I'm just saying, if it's addictive, I vote for candidates and everything is clear to me, logically,
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2046	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2047	But he was scolding me. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2048	I'm just finishing the break-up. We vote on the appointment of candidates for members of the Independent Committee of the Level-List of the Temporary Joint Commission of the two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of members of the Independent Committee and the Committee of Appeals of the Citizens, as independent bodies of the BiH Police structure, which are: - Enes Obralija President; - Mišo Ćavar First Vice-President; - Uroš Pena of the Second Vice President; - Muhamed Mujakić Member; - Enes Bezdrob Member; 50 - Mate Miletić Member; - Nikola Džambas Member; - Darko Kremenović member and - Milan Stanić member. We vote, who's in, who's in, who's in? So present 14 – for 11, versus 1, abstention 2. Federation of BiH – 7 for, against 1, abstention 2. Republika Srpska – for 4, no one against, no one abstention. I realize we have a general, entity majority. I agree with the members of the Independent Committee: Enes Obralija President, Mišo Ćavar First Vice President, Uroš Pena second vice president, Muhamed Mujakić member, Enes Bezdrob member, Mate Miletić member, Nikola Džambas member, Darko Kremenović member and Milan Stanić member. We will now declare the appointment of candidates for members of the Committee on Appeals of Citizens, as an independent body of BiH police structure from the ranking of the Interim Joint Commission of both the House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of members of the Independent Committee and the Committee on Appeals of Citizens, as independent bodies of the BiH Police Structure, which are: - Boris Buha President; - Vjekoslav Vuković the first deputy president; - Semir šut second vice president; - Hana Korać member; - Tihomir Marinčić member; - Miroslav Janjić member and - Šenderović Šenderovic member. I'm opening a debate if anyone's answering. We're voting, actually. There's been a debate. We vote. Present 14 – for 11, v. 1, abstention 2. Federation of BiH – 7 against 1st, abstention 2. Republika Srpska – for 4 against no one, abstentioned no one. We have a general, we have an entity majority. I am in charge of members of the Committee on Citizens' Appeals, as an independent body of the police structure of BiH were appointed: Boris Buha President, Vjekoslav Vuković First Vice President, Semir šut second president, Hana Korać member, Tihomir Marinčić member, Miroslav Janjić member and Šenderović Šenderovic member. Moving to point 12. Ad. 12. The appointment of Deputy Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Report on the establishment of a proposal for a candidate ranking for the selection of Deputy Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina delivered by the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Deputy Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina No: 01,02-50-16-161-5,1/21 of 21. 01. 2021 The interim joint commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes to implement the procedure for the appointment of the deputy director of the Personal Data Protection Agency in BiH established 51 and provided a report to the House of Representatives and to the People on the establishment of a candidate ranking proposal for the selection of the Deputy Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency in BiH. In line with the proposal for a ranking candidate, which was submitted by the Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, we should declare the appointment of the deputy director of the Personal Data Protection Agency in BiH. At the 16th session, held on 03.02.2021, the House of Representatives appointed Ante Boras as deputy director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH. I give my word to the chairman of the Interim Joint Commission to Lidija Bradara, if need be. No, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We vote, therefore, on the appointment of the first and only candidate from the ranking of the Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the deputy director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH and Ante Boras. We vote. So present 14 – for 12, v. 1, abstention 1. Federation of BiH – for 8, versus 1, abstention 1. Republika Srpska – for 4 against no one, abstentioned no one. So, I agree with Deputy Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency in BiH, Mr Ante Boras was appointed. Moving to point 13. Ad. 13. Proposal for a decision on the Council of National Minorities of BiH delivered by the Joint Commission on Human Rights, issue: 01,02,03/6-39-11718/21 of 21. 01. 2021
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2053	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2054	Yes, yes, Mrs. Bradara applied for a hearing.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2055	...proposer, I signed up for the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2056	For the discussion, okay, okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2057	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2058	There is no one on behalf of the promoter, therefore, for debate. I'm opening a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2059	Thank you. So here after, I don't know, how many months since the elections have been called, I think that when this Central Election Commission, which has been appointed in such a way, which, day by day, shows the way it works, the way it should be discussed, controlled, organised by the elections, and clearly through this all along, it's shown that they're not elected in the legal way, that they're more a political body, and they should be a technical body to conduct the elections, and in the end we've come into the situation as we are. Today we have a continuation of the City Council session in Mostar, through what happened through the work of the Central Election Commission, first of all, it is my desire that in some way we find out exactly what is going on there, I don't know how the rest of you do, but what the Central 54 electoral committee is doing, and contrary to all the practices so far, maybe some of them are available to you, so that you can follow the meetings of the Central Election Commission, I was talking about it when we had some of our sessions, you have to be forever or after the laptop, on your computer or on your phone so that you can track the decisions that they made, and in the end you never know what that decision looks like. In the end, all this time the decisions made by the Central Election Commission are at the very least questionable, regardless of how the court ruled on them. They questioned trust, the whole election process was completely compromised, regardless of the results in certain environments and everything we liked or didn't like. Here I can touch the results in Skopje, where they have for no reason interrupted the number of mailing lists, otherwise that post office is a special story. So, first we had the drama that we had about 117 thousand voters reported, which, ultimately, the turnout of these voters corresponded to the turnout of the voters in BiH. But what I've asked them, it's almost a month's worth, it's in a day, two, I never got an answer, which is why so many ballots have been rejected. I'm not going to go into whether these ballots are and what they are, or what they are, or what they are, but the way they were rejected means, if 17 thousand ballots were rejected by post office, which we don't know again how they came about, when they were sorted, who verified it, if we had the verification records, we eventually came to the data, regardless of what you did, except that you threatened the voting right of individuals to vote in the general elections, because they had previously registered, so they made an effort, so they filled out, so they sent them, you eventually threatened them... and that shipment cost an average of around 10 euros if it was from European countries, and most of all from Europeans. We have no record of it, that, you know, is a legal act in which you must determine and make a note of why you have rejected a voter's ballot. What has also happened with Travnik, with all the regrets and with all the misfortunes that some things have happened, we have all witnessed in this Chamber that such cases have happened before and I will not enter into the way and content at all, but what has done to the Central Election Commission has to the end come up with an election. Waiting, waiting for some decisions, I understand that something in the law has not been defined, and we are also pushing for the election law to change, because when we open up some questions about the Electoral Law normally that we will come up with some solutions. What... and then no wonder that from Central Bosnia, the people who are here experienced a few years ago New Travnik, so we have now experienced Skopje, where someone is celebrating to you in the morning, because they know that, and still the counting process, we have experienced Tavnik, regardless of the death of the late candidate, but if the law has not defined something, then I don't see how the Central Election Commission has exactly come to such a solution as it is and so it is now logical that the representatives of the Travnik HDZ have decided not to go to elections, that simply, here, the Bošnjak choose their own president, actually the head, because, as I asked the Council of Ministers, and you remember that we have adopted the conclusion to initiate the procedure of amending the Election Law, so I wonder that Travnik is defined as Mostar or Mostar as the Travnik, then some things would have already been resolved. This Central Election Commission, this process, first of all, has been delayed illegally, however much they claim that working online is transparent, I am still the old type of politician who likes to see the document, likes to see the conclusion, the record, and then it becomes so much clearer to you. When the process of confirming the election results, you had to take a little note of yourself to get a paper and a pen so that you would not find the data that was later on anywhere, how many voters went out, how many mails, how much was rejected, how much was verified, or who was responsible for it. All those complaints from the field about the incompetence of individual election committees, the way the elected electoral bodies had just compromised the election process. What 55 here is not visible to me is who the people who verified the ballots came by mail. Also, there is one provision, it is very interesting in the selection of the Central Election Commission, here it is chosen by the House of Representatives, but there is no way that you can replace the Central Election Commission, but there is also a self-punishment in the penal provisions of the Election Law, so we have never heard of whether anyone has ever been punished for any malfeasance, except that it was at the general level, at the general level where you have been canceling, recounting, for the hundredth time, and I don't remember whether it has ever, has ever been this long, been the process of counting ballots, and who will ultimately be responsible for why municipal election committees haven't ended in time and when they should have. So, the Central Election Commission is responsible for the conduct of the election, and it has clearly proved this time that it is completely incompetent for the process. I don't think it's ever been more non-transparent work of the Central Election Commission, but good news is the very way they choose us and points to that. You can't get information, and I think it's very important that the public knows that today. So, the process that could have ended and should have ended in Mostar, as in all of our environments you have.... possibly some bag doesn't agree, you hear the data that has been in certain environments and how long it's been going on, I think this is inadmissible in any case, I believe that according to the Central Election Commission law when it is due to deliver its report, but I think it will be by the way that some, re-elections, how somewhere you have elections for mayor, chief, we will eventually come into a situation that more than a year from the election call, local elections, I don't talk about indirect, direct elections, that these elections will not be held and implemented until the end. I'm really wondering what the Central Election Commission is like, I know what it's like, but I hope that, yes, and when we have the opportunity to discuss it sometimes, there are enough people who are aware that we don't have the unpromised electoral process all of us need, and we only need such choices to match democratic, clear, transparent, and not by dictatorship and will from individual offices, from individual parties, because this seems to be counting, counting, by the time we count, the numbers as it suits us, it's my impression, and I believe it's the impression of the general public in BiH, because for the first time it's been counted until, by the time, here, some parties have decided it's enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2060	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow delegates, distinguished guests. As soon as I read this conclusion, and apropo of our previous views versus the Central Election Commission, it seems to me that, at least in my opinion, there are a lot of things that don't seem to be right here. So, call on the Central Election Commission to refer here to local elections in municipalities where elections are repeated or where the results are suspected, in fact, means to confirm the legality and legitimacy of the Central Election Commission. We stand on the stand and it will remain in this mandate, that and it is a violation and the law, because it says in the law that in the election year there is no change or it is not good to change the members of the Election Commission, we have received a new composition of the CEC that we have challenged, therefore, their legality and it would not be appropriate for us to say so, so submit a report to us when we disagree with their work and behavior. My kolegica, Bradara, spoke of the neurolgic points of attention, which we can count freely and the municipality of Doboj, Srebrenica, and I think that this is a misunderstanding of the Central Election Commission and, in my view here, it is about the listed Central Election Commission, about the unleaded Central Election Commission, while someone allows himself to be elected by law or by breaking the law, so that those who support it are those who listen to those voices, that they have listened to Parliament's voices, would probably not have allowed themselves to be elected 56 in such a way. And that's why I won't vote for this conclusion, because he'd be in deep collegiate with what we've been saying for months and days. Thank you. ...applicated by Mr Bećirović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2061	As part of this point, previous debates pointed to elements, in their opinion, even electoral works, non-transparentities, irregularities, some suspicious activities, etc. Now that we're listening here logically that we have to ask one question, since both me and my colleague Miletić and in this assembly of the House of Nations have proposed concrete acts here in the House of Peoples how to create a more transparent electoral process, so we have proposed the introduction of cameras, scanners and other technologies that would make one more transparent process. And it's interesting that it's precisely against such proposals that those who are discussing today that something is not transparent. I can only conclude from this discussion that these delegates or delegates today have concluded that they have made a mistake in previous years when they voted against these proposals and that the next time we come here with concrete amendments to the Electoral Law in order to make a much more transparent and fairer election process, they will also support such changes, because that would be the only logical solution. Of course, this discussion could be extended, not only to 2020, but also to 2018, so if we opened those electoral bags and boxes, Bog knows what the results would be, but it's not worth going back to right now. So, the only concrete thing we can do is change the Electoral Law in a way that introduces new technologies and reduce the possibility of any malversion in the first subsequent elections.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2062	Oh, it's not my goal to pollute here, actually if there's not been a... that, yes, there's a change of electoral law, so we need to talk, look for a compromise, etc. I believe that time will bring us before us, but that does not mean calling for a breach of the existing. As long as there's a law, it has to apply until there's a new law. So, I'm not even talking here about the errors in the Central Election Commission's field, but about the rights that we have to dispute the legitimacy of the Central Election Commission, which is not chosen in accordance with the law, it's questionable for us, and when it is disputed, everything else is disputed. Now, if we're asking people to come to us for a reference, then it means that we haven't been honest in time ahead of us, only in that sense, and when the time comes to talk, and now we're opening that question to work on amending the Election Law or to get to the new Electoral Law, of course we're going to participate, but we never call on to break the existing until it comes to a new one. Thank you very much. ... the wrong quote, Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2063	So, I remember that cloudy time when the 2018 elections before the 2018 elections to push through a disturbing law that was the fruit of 40 meetings held at a foreign embassy, in order to get new technologies that, in translation, would mean getting to the database, and that database was supposed to serve to get the data obtained in the elections at a certain point of use against those who would get the election result. We were aware of that, the win was won by whoever had the database, and therefore we were aware of what was done, no one was opposed to introducing scanners, to solve this issue of election committees, to take all other measures, but I remind you of the decision of the Constitutional Court of Germany, which says – just pencil and paper and nothing more. Now, Germany one doesn't trust that way, and BiH, where no one trusts anyone, we'll go to new technologies that will allow us to work so that we get an election result, create an election result that we like. Well, we were aware of that, we knew exactly what political parties were involved, and we knew exactly that it was directed against SNSD and HDZ and no one, against anyone else and the positions and the opposition were together to reach that solution. You will never get that solution, as we sit in this House, knowing what the intentions are, the international community is very incorrectly acting there and it is trying to create an election result. So there is no way to make such a decision, when we see that some of these countries work in a similar way and have a solution that guarantees security, and that law had no idea what the security of the electoral system in which the database is in the Central Election Commission. Imagine now that the law was passed, with such a Central Election Commission,... what would now happen, should not... elections should not be held anymore, these political parties that are now in power, except the SDA, would never win the election again. So, don't think that we are, that we don't misrepresent our intentions, and we will recognize those intentions as long as we are in a position to decide.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2064	I thank my colleague, Majkić. Correction of the wrong quote Mladen Bosić.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2065	So I think this is good, so we're accusing each other of stealing choices, stealing choices exists, if it's so let's change the election law, let's suggest, Mrs. Majkić, changes to the electoral law that will ensure that what's going on, and we all know what's going on, stop. Here we are, I'm ready to support it and I believe that there has been an increased awareness of the importance of the electoral process and the degree of criminalization of that process that you can no longer talk about democracy here is something that is in doubt about everything, so the whole government is here under question if there are criminalized elections. Secondly, it is evident that if it is not our proposal that is elected to the Electoral Commission, then it is corrupt, if our proposal is the one chosen in this Electoral Commission, then it is not corrupt. Please suggest a way of forming an Electoral Commission. Mr. Špirić, um, I remember when you were a member of the College, I think of the House of Representatives, and you were an opposition, the SDS had a convincing majority, but you provided the votes of others and you were, should have been Novaković, it seems to me, when Mirko Šarović was replaced with, it wasn't, that something like that was, uh, but means as a minority you can be chosen someone, you can't expect the whole system to rest on who managed to sit in power. So, but you see, this whole story brings us back to this story of politicizing everything in BiH, all the institutions about a system that actually crossed that line that divides crime from some normal one. I think we all went over to the other side together, and let me tell you, you're saying you're contesting the election commission report because it's illegal. But you participated in the election by the election decisions of the Electoral Commission, you gave the Electoral Commission members of the electoral committees, so you defacto recognized her. You were, uh, principled when you boycotted, when Džaferović chaired last term, so you left every time, that's fine, but there's one piece missing in that story about non-recognition of the Electoral Commission. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2066	Thank you. Zlatko Miletić has a word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2067	Very briefly, I won't be long, just to say one fact, which is, I think, very important. I'm not going down to the level to take anyone in my mouth, so also from members of the Central Election Commission or commission, whatever you want, or to talk about the theft that's been going on, here, for decades in BiH when it comes to the election process. Just to remind Mrs. Majkić, so it wasn't the SDP proposal, it was a proposal of 17 political parties, about half of it was from Republika Srpska and I really ask you, here I agree with Mr. Bosić, you don't like the proposal, so let's talk about someone else. But when the citizens of this country deserve that day when they vote to know the results of the same night, and not to wait for it, here, a month, two, half a year, and I don't know how much, and I don't know how much again we're dealing with ourselves, really when we get to that Electoral Law, so suggest you or someone else who's the best and most transparent way to have as little theft in BiH as possible, that's the essence of that law. Not to say that this election law should solve the question, if we sit here for a year free, fine both homes, the Presidency, the Council of Ministers all to relax, that means we have to fart such mechanisms, until we do so, we won't be effective. If I didn't talk and I really don't want to go down, I'm proud of people, here, unfortunately Mr. Izetbegović came out, I don't know, here's the Varesh municipality or Novi Travnik, so I'm proud when some people choose someone from the order of another people, including this man from HDZ. When you go to talk to the population, Bošnjak in Varesh, how thank this man, not only should HDZ be proud of him, but I expect all of us to change the situation in BiH in this sense and indeed in the context of this Electoral Law in BiH to bring people who will do this job best, and indeed to benefit from BiH citizens at all levels of government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2068	...coworker Lidija Bradara, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2069	First of all, fellow Bosić, we didn't go to the polls because of the Central Election Commission, we went out under the Election Law, not according to the Central Election Commission rules, but I don't know what to call it, but under the Election Law, and all you had to do was, what you expected, I guess that's why you did it, that's why that scene happened. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] So that we don't go to the election, disrespecting, that so-called. an institution. We have had a controversial choice of the Central Election Commission since the beginning and no one has said it should be these, 59 neither they nor yours nor ours. There is an Electoral Law, and the Election Law is the basis to create trust, a way prescribed by law as members of the Central Election Commission are elected, and here for the first time in history, as far as I know, this way has changed and someone has decided, that here, we will delegate some people, so that at least he respected that procedure that people need you to have some, so there is no justification, this Central Election Commission has no experience in implementing the electoral process. If this had been done by the committee of the House of Representatives who had already opened the competition, there would have certainly been a solution in which members of the Central Election Commission would have had experience in the conduct of the electoral process and that is the problem. What we are talking about now is cosmetic changes, technical changes, in order to amend the Election Law first, we need to change the basis, which is that, in our Election Law, according to the judgments of the Constitutional Court, there is legitimate representation where the law provides and allows.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2071	Thank you...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2072	kolega Špirić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2073	Well, I didn't think we'd be staying long, but it's mostly good for everyone to say what they're thinking. My kolegica Bradar gave a part of the answer, but I want to say, therefore, it is not disputed that members of the Central Election Commission are elected in accordance with the law, I will never allow myself to mention any name, and you know that a competition has been held, therefore, and that the law says that during the election year no members of the Central Election Commission are changing. The ones you chose weren't part of the competition procedure, so that's the problem. And when you mentioned me, I chaired the House from the opposition because most MPs voted for me, those are two incompatible parts. If you were in accordance with the competition procedure, if these people had applied and if your House of Representatives had chosen these same people, they would have been legal and legitimate to me. So, you can't do that, you can't hide it. And in that sense, so I don't want to talk about people, we're talking about today, so one is law, the other is CEC. I do not dispute your right to see them legitimate until the end of the term of office, okay, as you do not dispute me to say they are not for us, because you have disavowed, therefore, the procedure of the competition. When a decision was to be made and those who were in the contest elected, you chose your members of the CEC overnight, with that burden they must live, and so must you. So, I respect every citizen's voice, voting rights, whatever it says, there's no dilemma, they need to figure it out, but I think for no reason you've put a huge burden on those people's backs and it's not, in my opinion, that's not a correct vision for them to do it. We, therefore, remain in the same belief, you are legal, legitimate, we are not, we have the right both of us and I think they don't need to file any reports for those reasons. Well, thank you very much. ...requested a regular discussion, co-worker Čović. Here you go. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2074	Thank you very much. Well, the esteemed college item on the agenda is 15. It's wearing the name it's wearing, and we've touched a little wider this... First of all, regarding the Central Election Commission, there should be no doubt, since everything we say here for public purposes, some media have transmitted in one way or another. As far as I'm concerned, the personal and political options or the options that I represent, this Central Election Commission is set up against the law, beyond the criteria and procedures, and we can actually argue that in a thousand ways. It behaves as it has been brought in and is not about experience, inexperience or I do not know the willingness to do this job, it has deeply compromised the entire electoral process, because the agenda item bears an approximately such title that on the basis of their report we analyse the local elections held on 15.11. and 20.12. So the fact that these dates were set up like this, that they were falling apart from the law, clearly directed enough the way these people behave. These people or the good majority of them are managed by one party, from one office, means very openly, it should be clearly said here, I say it with full responsibility for what I say, and it's still done so. For this reason, we should not be surprised at the fact that we are calling on the Election Act today, we will talk about it and I can say two or three words about it, but we do not have to, or at least I personally do not need to listen to a report by someone I have said twenty times in the last two months, how the preparations for local elections and local elections are being prepared, that they are committing criminal acts, and that they have deeply compromised the whole process as the local elections of the 11th and 15th, respectively, and especially those 20.12. First of all, by moving on purpose, by giving up the deadline for the Mostar elections, although the conclusions of all the agreements we made were that the elections had to be done at the same time. These thefts, as some here have already said, the voices, the abuses we have, will not eliminate any electoral law, that we understand each other, if we get carried away ok, we can talk about it. I am sure that this Election Commission must resign or be brutally removed and prosecuted for it, the political option I represent has also filed criminal charges at the level of the county, i.e. canton and at the state level against such an Electoral Commission, precisely because it has made it possible for crime to take place during the election process. To get away with someone else, someone else's responsibility, I think it's inconceivable here, and it needs to be made very clear. Well, now that we're sitting here, we're having a session of the City Council of Mostar, it's all seemed, absolutely everything to know in advance about the electoral winner in Mostar. The HDZ has been brutally stolen down there, and I've been saying it out loud for a month or two and it hasn't worked out again, the mayor of Mostara will be a representative just proposed by a group that has a majority in Mostar, where HDZ BiH is also. You know what? Because as I received 86% of the Croatian people's votes two years ago, today again in Mostar HDZ and its list received more than 85% of the Croatian people's votes in BiH and thus 13 mandates. Do you need me to point out those remarks that one part of Mostar's resident from one village moved to another, you know, since when? When we adopted the rules we here and amended the Election Law, so we could hold elections in Mostar. These people have already returned today, gone to... addresses to repair the structure of a polling post down to get one mandate and failed again. And of course I'm not saying this to entertain one of you, of which it's already been almost two months, and it can't be run in this way by the electoral process, that's what we're talking about today, and I don't see any reason why the Electoral Commission, the Central Election Commission, is reporting to us. It should report to those who have appointed them and those who manage them, because everything that has been done on the night of the 20th of December in Mostar and what has been done since the 15th of November elections for all the other environments, deeply... all that we are talking about here today, because here again we are representatives, we are three peoples, but also more political options and parties that advocate that this process 61 is still based on the highest standards that apply around us today and now only two, three words about those standards. We will propose that the election law for BiH be amended and complemented by the end of the sixth month of this year and that it be one of the conditions of BiH's candidate status. Of course, we primarily advocate that changes to the provisions that speak about members of the Presidency and the homes of the people, in order to ensure the legitimate representation of the constituent peoples in BiH. But we also said that we could discuss all the technical repairs of the electoral process to ensure this protection. The right to choose, that your voice has no right to change, and you got one illustration that my colleague Bradar gave you, let's say, for Skopje, here's another one not to point out. At one point when it was recognised that the mayor or chief of Skopje would be one person from one political option, the counting of correspondence and nothing was brutally interrupted, as if nothing had happened. In Mostar, we have 150 seats to vote on, 50 thousand people went to the polls, no polling place more than a thousand voters, we estimated that it would take us an hour or a half to get rough, rough results of the Mostar elections, because for, without a problem, an hour count, at least to know what policy options, what results they have achieved to leave for the second day. You know when we got those results? Seven or eight days, and when the lawsuits started, as whoever did the preferences, you could have followed and touched yourself, beware, only 15 out of 150 polling stations and you could see a change of up to a thousand preferences on individual lists. And I was at the beginning when this happened, of course, that we had tips and field data, that about four or five hours in the afternoon, a deeply compromised election process in Mostar, but be careful not to go to Mostar, who is doing so in the election procedure, so every second or fourth year has elections, so you'll have no choice from the American Embassy, so to any other administration of which today sits in BiH that they didn't have their representatives to oversee the elections in Mostar, the OSCE, the ones under our bat. When you heard after five hours that Pod banged about the election in Mostar, up to two, three, four, 17 hours later, there was also talk. Now I could list as many of you as you want. Be careful, in these conditions brutal theft was made and again failed, this Central Election Commission failed again to obtain results that they had set up in advance as a given value. That is why, here, in the shortest, I personally think that, here, we have said enough or someone else will be involved to say something about the Central Election Commission, and I will repeat what most of you have said, illegally, without criteria and procedures, the established commission, which corresponds only to one almost individual or one political option in BiH, and not to those who should have appointed them through the Parliamentary Assembly House of BiH and such an Election Commission should not have an alibi in its experience or inexperience but must be held accountable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2075	I thank Mr. Dragan Čović. Word, correction of the wrong quote, Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2076	So, look, we should get back to the agenda, here's a proposal from the Constitutional Commission, the Constitutional Commission is proposing to us as the House to ask the CEC to provide us with full information on the held elections in 2020 with a special reference to Mostar, it was voted on by the Constitutional Legal Commission. According to my knowledge, and here's someone to deny me, if I'm wrong, that's what the HDZ members of the Constitutional Commission voted for. And now counterpart Čović, as HDZ president, says we do not need such information, we do not recognise 62 of this Central Election Commission. What is the real position of HDZ now, is this what Čović was talking about or what they voted for and what the HDZ members were looking for in the Constitutional Commission? Since this is being followed and recorded, let us send a clear message, it may like it or not like someone, but the CEC has been selected in accordance with the law and with the applicable procedures. Are they good, is there any shortages, etc. You can talk about it, but it's legal. Furthermore, it's unacceptable to find that we're making some kind of a line divide, so that's how this CEC got here started as some kind of malversion, and before that it was great. So even worse the situation was before, this CEC even shows a tendency to put things in order, the truth has a lot of room to improve work, but let's send a clear message. It is rare that my colleague Špirić and I agree on something, but in the first discussion today at this point, Špirić said one true sentence, while there is a law to be respected, it is the principle of nature's attitude and so it is. We until we change the law he has to respect both the Electoral Law and what I was talking about today and the Defence Act, a member of 84 that talks about NATO and everything else, and it is a matter of agreement now, a procedure when and in what way certain things will be fixed, but the essence of all this was in this House when my colleagues Miletić and I proposed concrete changes, the introduction of video cameras, scanners, a series of other measures that would increase transparency that we were now refusing to do so here, that is, most of us. These things need to be changed so these things don't happen.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2077	Thank you. A colleague, Bosić, asked for a word, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2078	Yeah, well, a while ago, the BiH chief prosecutor filed a report on the prosecution's work in this House, and I asked her about some cases why they keep cases of reported election theft in the Brcko district in the drawer. Her comment here was, you know, the regularity of the election is always complained about by those who lose the election, that's her commentary. I was fragrant, that someone, that the chief prosecutor might say, no, no, it's okay, you've lost the election there must be complaining about it. That's the most drastic statement I've ever heard from one of the officials here. The hand to the heart, after that, is really a process in these cases, and if you claim that the law has been broken, and I am sure that you are right, that in many places the law has been broken, but not only in Mostar, but throughout the election process, because it has been broken since the first elections organised in BiH, because unfortunately I took part in these elections, the first post-war elections when the international community was involved, and at the counting centre of the night, no one knows where they came from, who brought them, so when they refuse to accept them, these UNPROFOR trucks put bags and disappear as if nothing had happened. So here the process has been corrupt since the very beginning, and since it's been so all of them for a while and they thought it was normal. Maybe this is a shift now, maybe now everyone's coming to the conclusion that this still needs to be arranged for something to change. And finally, if so, so who is in charge of sanctions against those who break the laws in this country, who is in charge of implementing the law in BiH? So the justice system at all levels and we get to the same level again, we come to the fact that the judiciary isn't chasing, because it says it's an election commission issue, and it's actually criminal acts. I assume that you have invested, filed a criminal report, you say you have filed a criminal report, the courts are obliged to rule on that, unfortunately there is no trust in the institutions, no justice, and whatever verdict the other side is going to say to the corrupt judiciary. And therefore, I repeat, and you have responsibility for this because a large part of the judiciary, Mr Čović, and covered with HDZ personnel, means 63 Ministers at the Council of Ministers are obliged to conclude that within 6 months, the new VSTS Act has never been done. So we need to change the judiciary to get to this story at all so we can solve the question of whether the crime in the Electoral Commission is in any other place or any other problem and any argument that we're gnawing about here. So, I'm not accusing anyone, I think we should all participate in this, maybe this is an opportunity to finally get to the bottom of it that we all get out of the thick end in the end if we stay this way and get to the bottom of it, let's suggest, if you're unhappy, here, and I'm dissatisfied, let's suggest from the way the CEC chooses, from the way the VSTS to the other things that will restore trust in society's unsatisfaction.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2079	Thank you, fellow Bosić. The word was requested by Mr Dragan Čović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2080	Here's what I'm going to try not to report on this issue anymore, but still no doubt about the legality of the appointment of the Central Election Commission, absolutely against the law, past the procedures and beyond the criteria. The criteria were tried by fellow Špirić to explain a little here and the procedures, all covered. But it is interesting that the BiH Court has never resolved appeals under the case and still a key appeal stands unresolved in the BiH Court of Justice. Here's not to pollomize with what was to be done or not to be done, but the fact is that this isn't about whether or not someone abuses my voice or your voice somewhere in a municipality or some city around BiH, I'm talking about facts that you have a lot of material and arguments that it was done through an institution that was supposed to oversee this process and that's why I've been so busy on Mostar. Of course, you could list dozens of other environments. I also emphasized the issue of correspondence as one special example, and we could point out a lot more. So we're talking about what there's a lot of evidence, that the system has organised the theft of votes, and that's why it's a criminal responsibility and a criminal offence, right from the top of the Central Election Commission, and so on and for that we've filed criminal charges, precisely against these people in the Central Election Commission at these levels that I've been talking about. When we get an answer to that, it's something else now, but if we're already opening this topic here HDZ knows how to vote on this item of the agenda, we've sent very clear messages as we think we are, and therefore we will continue to treat both this body and every other body that is put in place in this way, in the same way, in principle, in accordance with both the Constitution and the laws that we have in force today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2081	I thank Mr. Čović. Marina Pendeš correcting the wrong quote, please. Injuring the Rules of Procedure, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2082	I thank the president. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, because both Mr. Bosić and Mr. Bećirović misused the replica as an institute in this session today in a way that they showed nothing that Mr. Čović had said something that was incorrect and the other had broken the time, so I think it's really high time to take care of it, on the one hand. 64 And on the other side of this is visible, so just here's another one to Mr. Bećirović, by the way, since he's broken here too, so I'm going to break a little bit, at the beginning he was saying the number of votes, you know. It is very important when my brothers who are abroad, and there are many, Hrvat who are abroad, and when we talk about how many there are after '91. Percently less in BiH, the question is then who is abused by the vote institute and why HDZ does not have another 100,000 votes left. But we'll do it under another agenda point, with quality analysis and data.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2083	Thank you. We have a colleague of the Čolak, a regular discussion, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2084	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'll try not to repeat myself, although it's hard not to repeat it or at least not to mention something that the individuals here said today. To claim that the Central Election Commission is appointed by law is legally out of mind. You know how, let's go to a utility company, here's how you wouldn't want to offend anyone, demean, pick one street cleaner past the open competition, past advertising, past public advertising, past competition procedures or tender procedures, so that's impossible. You know what we did, or what some did at the House of Representatives? So they ignored this institute that simply exists in the law and is not possible otherwise, so there is no provision in the Electoral Law that would give the right to name members of the Central Election Commission past, therefore, public advertising, and that's done, it's done. So that's the only thing that makes this Central Election Commission's choice illegal, illegal. Now the question arises – can the illegally elected Central Election Commission make legal decisions? You know, something that's illegal at first, you can't legalize it the way if it keeps working, you have to do it in..., so, in your foundations you have to change it, you have to make it legal. It wasn't made. If now, if we were to sort out everything that was made in the meantime, and it's not legal, it's really one huge list, a huge list, it's a little bit of a failure, it's things that really don't have any basis in the law, so they're against the law, and that's why someone should answer. Why did those who opted for such a thing, so why did they decide why they decided on such a procedure, I don't know, but the fact is that they could have the same members of the Central Election Commission, the exact same, so perhaps they could have chosen, in a competitive, or in the procedure provided for by law. I don't know if that would go away, because it would analyze whether someone is a prominent, I don't know, legal expert with the knowledge of the electoral process, whether it's an election expert, whether it has some kind of connection with a political party or in terms, financial sense, organisational and some third sense, this, or with some NGO or body, this, or an institution or a trust, which again has something to do with the party, etc. etc. But, therefore, the basic thing is a violation of the law, all that came after that cannot, unfortunately, be legal, cannot or may not be legal. If, here was the question, so here you went to elections based on what the Central Election Commission has called the sources. Well, of course, we have lived in the Federation from imposed constitutional amendments for a very long time, they never received their confirmation through the Federation of BiH Parliament, out of 109 amendments 73 were imposed by the High Representative, so nothing, we have to live with it, but does not mean that we will not fight it and that we will not ask in this country to finally be the highlight of everything and that we must all simply act in accordance with the laws. You know, what's the problem here? The problem here is, therefore, that even under the current law 65 we are not acting by law, or the Central Election Commission, unfortunately not all those who have raised their hands for such a Central Election Commission, this, did not adhere to the law. So we must start by ourselves, or all of us, first of all, in the House of Representatives, or the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, this, apply existing regulations as long as they exist, and change and repair them, innovate them, and then deal with these changes and additions. Of course, that we have our own political position and that we will make it very clear in the end when we declare this proposal that came from the Central Election Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2085	Thank you. No more reports, closing the hearing. Let's make a statement, we are voting on the proposal for a conclusion of the Constitutional Legal Commission to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. So present 14 – for 4, versus 8, abstention 2. Federation of BiH – 4 against 4, abstention 1. Republika Srpska – for no one, against 4, abstention 1.. I konstatuj that the conclusion of the Constitutional Commission at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has not been adopted. We're going to point 16 and point 16 is, Ad. 16. Delegate Dušanka Majkić's initiative, which reads: "Analysis of the state in the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the diplomatic-consular network" with a proposal for measures" of 02. Ten. 2021 You've reached the initiative of delegate Dušanka Majkić. I give the word to Dušanka Majkić, the applicant of the initiative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2087	Just for a little while, part of it already told me what it was up to. So, I expect that within 30 days, the Foreign Ministry will provide us with the relevant material that will enable us to discuss this debate and that this will be an example of how we should look in the future when it comes to repairing the situation in BiH institutions. So, I expect we'll get this debate at the House of Peoples as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2088	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Who's calling? Comrade Bećirović, please. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2089	I think that at this point in the agenda there is a formal-legal aspect, and then the content aspect of this point, and now if I do something wrong in this formal-law section, I would ask the secretary to correct me immediately or the secretary, you're right. Here, therefore, we have the agenda point delivered today in the following way – in accordance with Article 9. I'm submitting my Rules of Procedure to the Legacy Initiative to include the agenda of the 15th session and now not to read this item of the agenda. So, Ms. Majkić launched a delegation initiative in accordance with Article 9 and you know, here will now be a delegation initiative under the following agenda points, as delegate initiatives are being treated. To put something on the agenda, you have to call on a member of 61 who treats the issue of complements and changes to the agenda and not read, it's clear what it says. Now I call on one decent way, however, to correct this mistake and yet we now absorb this in a way that this can't really be for formal-legal reasons point of the agenda, because we simply confused the Rules of Procedure and members who regulate completely two different things. Not to go any further, is that okay, fellow Špirić, do you agree with that?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2090	It would be fine if, in the context of the debate over the agenda point, Bećirović looked at this way, given that we have a agenda point, I ask you to discuss it, everything else is ____________?) [[no microphone turned on]] Yeah. Well, then, we've adopted that this is the point of the agenda and
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2092	Among other things, I tried to tell you on the agenda, but here's what you did today. So now it's an anti-business approach, and everyone, you're all aware that what I'm talking about is completely right. We're still keeping this on a formal-legal aspect, we can figure out a way to treat this like a mistake, so if it's in the agenda, not to talk any further, it's gone away, and it shouldn't have. And the second is to introduce a new practice, it's simply that this map of times how delegate initiatives end up in the agenda to make it a model. I don't mind either, then for the first next session of the new business opportunity, but let's solve this issue first on this, I repeat, formal business level. Here, you don't have to talk, but that kind of mistake has been made and I'm not going into this content part of this initiative now, etc. to stop myself from having a debate and not having a session like this ever since the next session, it just doesn't happen to us when we're on the agenda. Here, I'll stop there now.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2093	I thank my colleague Bećirović. Regular discussion, counterpart Dragan Čović. Here you go. 67
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2094	Dear colleagues and colleagues, since we have a agenda point, I will speak of it myself two or three words, so that we can draw a conclusion that is likely to be made by my colleague Majkić and at the end of this agenda point. Namely, it concerns the ease with which we are passing through the work of the executive, part of the BiH-level executive, in this case the foreign ministry through the person of the foreign minister, a otherwise respected colleague, through my own thinking from previous times. In the last 10, 15 days alone, you have a press release on behalf of the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs when it comes to the first-degree verdict at the War Crimes Court, not to enter the case in any way and it is not fair to comment first-degreely, the interesting minister comes out with a comment on the first-degree verdict. Without agreement with anyone, as far as I know, from the Presidency or the Council of Ministers, whom at least a little should be consulted in defining foreign policy or implementing foreign policy. A while ago, are we also, as well, the economic belt of the Republic of Croatia, where you have a note on which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Croatia then writes to us, by the minister recently in Mostar, who informs me that he has met the minister of events, as well as all other colleagues who are attached to the Adriatic Sea, who are not members of the EU and all have accepted the explanation that has come, so that the note comes and then man asks whether it is really a note from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which represents the institutions of BiH or the person, the minister. Now that's a question of resolution. We could list more of these things, let's say, since we had a part of the local elections in BiH, so you have a very clearly organised system of collecting those who need to vote by letter in BiH through this Ministry and again through one person or system that this person....and now may be listed further, but we said that since this point is clearly to be prepared either by the Ministry or by the Council of Ministers, we should discuss it thoroughly within 30 days, but these are just some of the indications that very clearly say that we are in the conduct of BiH's foreign policy. And given that we have a lot of foreign policy issues, it's good that we discuss this issue as quickly as possible and when it comes to our diplomatic network, but also just behavior, I've only taken these two examples in the last 15 days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2095	I thank Mr. Dragan Čović. Correction of the wrong allegations, counterpart Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2096	So here you can treat as a debate, I tried to stop at this formal legal dimension, with which you all agreed that it just couldn't be the point of the agenda and I tried not to open a discussion about the content of this agenda point. However, since co-worker Čović has opened that kind of debate, it is not a problem, we will also discuss it, and we have something to say on this subject. The first thing, when it comes to foreign affairs, I think the general principle in the BiH state must be to return to the frameworks of constitutionality, which means that foreign policy is the sole responsibility of the BiH state. When that is the case, the question arises who, why, with what purpose is financed by the paradiplomatic representations of an entity across Europe and the world. What do we need that for? The taxpayers' money is being spent, huge money is at stake, no need at all. Imagine 68 to invest these taxpayers' money in BiH's diplomatic network, certainly to improve the situation there and improve. So we need to talk about the essentials, how to place the general area of foreign affairs in the right place. The second thing is that I also think that there is much more work to be done here, there is a need to strengthen the diplomatic and consular representations of BiH in many destinations. My proposal is to open up some new embassies, there are a number of states with which BiH has economic ties that are in all parameters in some upstream path that should be improved in a way that we can also establish full diplomatic relations with these countries, that I do not now choose which countries are concerned. I think the existing embassies can increase efficiency, they can work more safely in the field of economic diplomacy, there's plenty of room to improve work. Also, I think that in BiH's foreign policy we must put a much bigger accent on four strategic destinations in Washington, Brussels, London and Berlin, there I think we must be much more present and have an even more serious approach. There are now a number of other things, not this point of the agenda, nor can it just be transformed into a way to destabilise this ministry, the overall foreign policy of BiH, etc. This item of the agenda can also be turned in a completely different way, and that is how to have a stronger, more efficient and better diplomatic representation of BiH around the world and in this sense, just to point out, since this point is just predicting a debate on the subject, that and that there is a wide range of possibilities for us to actually act constructively and thus strengthen the foreign policy of the BiH state.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2097	... my colleague Bećirović, Dragana, announce me.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2098	Here you go, colleague Špirić, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2099	Oh, thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think that given this initiative, as it is included in the agenda, I think that, it is the correction of the wrong assumption, that we did not agree that it was included in the agenda by mistake, but by voting we confirmed that the item of the agenda, therefore, is one false allegation. And the other thing is, I think when we're having a debate here we should make sure we do something about the time that's ahead of us. I mean, the way our colleague Bećirović invites us to do a historic thing, he's actually moving us away. To talk about paralegals around the world, it doesn't really have anything to do with this agenda point, it has nothing to do with anything. Republika Srpska's representations in Washington, Belgrade, Brussels, Germany, in Austria are the honours of Republika Srpska's authorities, it is not in line with the Constitution, nor with any law. These representations have brought a lot of good things, perhaps not all that was expected in terms of investment, development, better life, and I think if the intensity is to put you and this part of this story, it's actually something that, especially to call it para-representations, so if I were to talk about the para-institutions that exist in this country, and you're talking about the need and I'm talking about the need for it to be on the basis of the Constitution, to develop, etc. I think that this initiative by Mrs Dušanka Majkić is given in this sense that the ministry prepares the material as it sees it, so that we can discuss and come to what we agree with and what we disagree with and what needs to be fixed. So, we're not, we're expecting material based on which to discuss it. And all of your incursions that drive us from each other, 69 are actually collapsing with your, your need story, about building the future of BiH. Don't do it, don't do it, I thought a young man in politics, and you can do it if you want, with so much hate when he comes, I'm actually afraid that doesn't hurt you, save your health. Republika Srpska will not ask Denis Bećirović where he will open the office, not my Denise, not, there were stronger ones who may have asked for it, so no one has passed, if someone sets a correct point, let us discuss it. Only in that sense do I wish as a young man to warn you. There are your ideas that you suggest here that are too high, that deserve sometimes support, but the way you do it, you need a public manifestation here to reject everything, you don't need anything to accept. Well, since we realized that you needed a public event failed, we're helping you with that, what else are we going to do, we're colleagues. And therefore, please, don't do anything that is in accordance with the Constitution and the law to call money, is that really not and is not part of this agenda. Here, that's what I was gonna say. Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegations, Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2100	And you, my fellow Špirić, have spoken in this monologue, but unfortunately you have not touched any facts, and I remind you a little of the facts. First, a business mistake was made with this agenda point, it entered the anti-business way in the procedure and it is written in the Rules of Procedure. Whether this topic deserves and in what way the debate is, that's another matter. Secondly, jurisdiction, when it comes to foreign policy is the jurisdiction of the BiH state, you know very well, as I do, that this is the precise jurisdiction of the BiH state. It is not divided, exclusive of jurisdiction, it has no right for the entity to take the exclusive responsibility of the BiH state without telling you what these tomatoes are doing around the world, what policy they are implementing and why they are not in the role of the overall economic diplomacy and foreign policy of BiH. Third, don't mention hate, what hate, there's never been one of my performances that has the letter "M" of hate, and I'm here proposing a number of laws that legally forbids hate, upset hatred, chauvinism and anything else and you know how anyone voted on those proposals. So in the works we show our suggestions in which direction and which policy we follow. Therefore, important topics should certainly be opened, but in a serious way, the first formal-law should look like the Rules of Procedure prescribes us, and then in a way that, when it comes to foreign policy, since the BiH Presidency is the main body, we should establish a little coordination. You have long been at the head of different homes in Parliament and you know very well that there is a provision where members of the Colleges establish coordination with the heads of the Council of Ministers and the BiH Presidency. Who forbids you to establish that coordination, first you to talk about the subject, to see how things are, and then to discuss things longer, then some meaningful proposal, not a proposal that will break up the state, state institutions, but to do something better, better quality for all peoples and for all peoples in BiH, if we have such an approach, there will be no problem. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2101	Thank you. At least your tone's a little bit more polite, Denise. Let's move on, Zlatko Miletić
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2102	No, Mr. Bosić...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2103	And Mladen Bosić answered, correcting the wrong quote, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2104	Well, I think this is a good initiative, but it seems to me that this initiative still has another background, it's probably the fruit of some relations within the ruling coalition, because that's how it is, it's good to discuss the ministries here and the poor work in the ministries, so certainly there would be a debate on the Ministry of Foreign Trade, why things like this are happening, and this debate should be supported, so we need to discuss the Ministry of Civil Affairs and what's going on about the vaccination in BiH and their roles or their ne roles in all this and all the other ministries. There's something to discuss here, but it seems to me that this initiative is still the name of another background. So, I support it, but I expect it to really spread to other, other ministries, too, because it's obvious there'd be a lot to apologize here about the failure of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2105	Thank you. Regular debate of counterpart Miletić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2106	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I want to go back to the formal legal aspect of this issue, given that I had a similar situation on at least two occasions, that I was proposing initiatives for you, you as members of the College both times refused me so resolutely, explaining to me that no initiative can come to the agenda until the committees on them have come forward. Let me remind you the last time I spoke about the salaries of our civil servants and employees, I still asked you what committee in Parliament is responsible for estimating whether they will have a general strike or not, you didn't give me an answer, but you took me off the agenda and said, "It can't, let it go." I don't have a complex of Mrs. Majkić and I'm glad that the woman is potential, in my opinion, this very important question and it should be on the agenda, but I agree with Mr. Bosić, I have a feeling that some other connotation is breaking in here, which is the foreign minister we need to take off today's head. And if we're going to talk about it, I'm going to say two, three things on that subject, given that I've had the opportunity and the honor to work at our foreign ministry on two occasions, almost four years, and I have to tell you three, four things that some of you, and even the public won't sound good, but I really don't want to be a populist and I want to say what's right. According to my personal assessment, what the woman did, as Mr. Čović mentioned, I find it inappropriate and that is my personal position, but also you who have been sitting here for years are war criminals who were judged by their peoples to welcome,... made 71 of them folk heroes, and when I proposed the law to make it impossible for it to be a crime, you rejected it. Then it's degutant to talk about what the foreign minister said to this, the one, that's my point of view. We need to pass the law to prohibit people, anyone, from any place for persons who are convicted as war criminals by the International Court of The Hague or the domestic court. Now, the Foreign Ministry, if it's a real intention, and I don't want to play the scale here, that we're really talking about problems when it comes to the Foreign Ministry, it's a ministry that's been for years, and there's Mrs. Majkić in the right place, which has so many problems, so many audit reports, I don't think there's any audit reports without 20 recommendations. So that's where the disaster is. And I'm going to say one more thing that maybe you and the public won't like, and I have to fence myself from that man's wartime past, now that the poll was conducted at the Foreign Ministry, 70% of the employees said that the best foreign minister was Jadranko Prlić. All those others who came to the ministry were looking to break it from the ground, no matter what political party it was about. If I didn't tell you about the crime that was going on there, about a minister who leads his friend on a tour of Central Europe and takes three travel orders to pay Mr.... class to himself and the girl, takes three orders to split it into three parts so that the authorities don't figure it out and internal audit it. So there's nothing going on out there. There were ministers who were more in the air than on earth. What's the essence of the problem at the Foreign Ministry? It has been for the past 20 years, its internal organisation and the work in that ministry has been completely neglected and it needs to be taken into account, as people say, from the foundations, including the Presidency which is responsible, especially when it comes to the DKP network, so the Presidency is primarily responsible for the foreign policy of BiH, and only then will the Foreign Ministry be opened again, so I asked you once and for that, we are the only country in Europe that has no Foreign Affairs Act, the only one. If there's a legal basis for what's in Dayton, then we wouldn't have this, maybe we wouldn't come into a situation to discuss whether anyone has this representation, I apologize, it does or doesn't. And my colleague to correct, the first kind of representation was opened by Canton of Sarajevo, believe it or not, and then when they saw that it could go through, then the gentlemen of the RS, who said when they could, we could, and it went on forever. To conclude, 70% of the security officers at the Foreign Ministry, so I know from the secretary down to the people doing the driver's work, are aware, honorary and professional. The problem is that when he sets up his minister, those people do what they want, there's a general government. So, I've been talking back 20 years. Whoever does not believe, one day I will guide you to people who know a lot, go and check this out. And that there is a basis to talk about this, if Mrs. Majkić's motive is in place, and I think it is, I think it's high time to really prepare one thorough piece of information, including the BiH Presidency to talk about this, to see how, I think 56 million on an annual basis to spend, how this ministry in the best possible way to take advantage of it. To add, defeatingly, yesterday we received data on the commission that all foreign investment in BiH has 300 and some million, that's my disaster. The question is raised by these ambassadors, ambassadors what they do there, so imagine that everyone in this country, I don't even know the exact number, but there are very many, dozens of them, so imagine that it measures its efficiency by how many jobs you give BiH, how much money you bring into this country, and they would see that it can work in a very different way. To finish, in any case, means, I will support, if this initiative, if it does not refer to a personal basis, if I am speaking about an institution, the quality of its work and to improve that quality in any case I will support it. Thank you. 72
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2107	Thank you very much. Before I give my word, Denis Bećirović asked for the purpose of this initiative is to get the Ministry's material to discuss it. What's the ministry going to write in that material none of us know, but if everyone agrees to get that material here, so that's okay. Here, colleague Bećirović, blames the quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2108	Only one thing remains unclear, so to point out one fact, this is what fellow Miletić was talking about, but in one part I have to supplement it when he said that the first representation formed was the representation of Canton of Sarajevo. You see, if we're just talking about what it was like first of the Dejton and entering the Constitution, then we can sort things out the way they were. The only ministry that has the right and jurisdiction after the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement to run foreign policy is the BiH Foreign Ministry, but there is a counterpart, Miletić, who is not right. Almost three or four years after Dejton, it's the Ministry Act and other management bodies, I don't know if that's exactly the name, but there was a law in bh. The RS entity, which nearly three or four years after Dejton existed in that entity, the Republika Srpska Foreign Ministry, was also headed by Aleksa Buha, and this, before Dejton, does not exist for me, it is a parafisce, I am now talking about the Dejton entry. So, only after three, four years after a series of interventions was abolished that and the representation of this economic Canton of Sarajevo, I asked for information to see what they're doing, one thing is when you're trying something on the economic plan to advance, and the other is the whole other content of these tomatoes and today that are actually trying to make up for something that is clear that it can never survive in BiH. That's one explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2109	Thank you. No more reported,
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2110	He's having a discussion with Denis Bećirovi. _________(?) No, there isn't. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2111	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Is it done?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2112	Done. [[no microphone turned on]] 73
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2113	Thank you... Ad. [[no microphone turned on]] 17. Zlatko Miletić's delegation initiative, initiated by the Council of Ministers from the current budget reserves of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions, in line with the current possibilities of BiH institutions, singles out some of the financial resources for spot support to Croatian citizens for the resolution of the devastating earthquake, number: 02-50-6-2526/20 out of 30. 12. 2020 You received the opinion of the Finance Commission and the budget of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Commission did not support this initiative. I give the word Dušanka Majkić, if necessary, as presidents of the Commission. There isn't. I give my word to the applicant, if there is. Here you go, colleague Miletić.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2115	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2116	Well, you didn't let me stop.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2117	This is a realized initiative as I see it.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2118	Here, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2119	Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2120	.... this question builds on this previous question, given that now that I haven't been able to explain where this initiative came from in the first place and that I've submitted it. Given the fact that when this happened, this earthquake in the Republic of Croatia, and you saw, especially between 28 and 30.12., I really expected the competent institutions to, above all, think of the Presidency, Council of Ministers, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that someone would react in the sense of showing empathy towards suffering, is it, the population in the Republic of Croatia and that someone would remember that we would help people. Given that this was not the case, I came out with this initiative, the short story, the Council of Ministers, although there were some extraordinary sessions in the meantime, at its meeting on 12.01., made a decision, so Act No 3/21 to direct assistance to the Republic of Croatia in the amount of half a million converting marks, and I said, I thank them for that. And when it comes to this second part of the initiative, where I asked for a fund, phone number, etc. Considering that BiH citizens, so in 74 of all its parts, are much better organised by BiH institutions, so there is no need for me now, is it already too late for you to see that many volunteers from Herzegovina, I don't know, police officers, various associations of citizens, have appeared in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and have provided assistance there to this population. So, once again, I would like to thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers for making the decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2121	I thank my colleague Miletić. I'm opening a debate if there's any need. No, I'm closing the argument. Let's vote on the delegation initiative of Zlatko Miletić. So present 14 - for 5, versus 8, abstention 1. The Federation of BiH – for 5, against 4, abstentioned no one. Republika Srpska – against 4.1 abstention. We don't have a general, we don't have an entity majority. I understand that this initiative by fellow Miletić has not been accepted. Moving to point 18. Ad. 18. Denis Bećirović's delegation initiative, tasked by the Council of Ministers to prepare the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly within three months of the day of adoption of this initiative and to refer to the parliamentary procedure for the analysis of the conduct of a hybrid war against the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with a proposal for measures to ensure the safe operation and strengthening of state defence capacities, No: 02-50-6-78/21 of 06. 01. 2021 You have received the opinion of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH, the Commission has not supported this initiative. I give my word to Asim Sarajlić, the chairman of the Joint Defence and Security Commission, if necessary. There isn't. I give my word to the applicant of the initiative, if necessary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2123	A shorter version of the reasoning and broader, here, given that we've pretty much extended this session of the House of Peoples I'll try to say a few things in short lines, and if the debate opens, then there'll be a wider debate. First of all, my proposal is to get one such analysis and perhaps at this stage of the debate we are not too prejudged, but to get such an analysis and I think we should definitely get a proposal for measures to strengthen these defence capacities. An active security strategy must be built in BiH, BiH as well as other countries must defend their independence, sovereignty, 75 territorial integrity, and we must include the profession. People who are professionally engaged in this segment, many of them claim that even the fourth stage of the hybrid war against BiH is under way, all of these things should be checked, to see where we are and how things stand on that plan. Also, I think that like other countries, we must be aware of the time we live in, but also of the dangers we face, in that sense I suggest, therefore, that we adopt such a proposal, that we get such an analysis and that we open up a comprehensive debate afterwards.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2124	I thank my colleague Bećirović. Is anyone answering for a word? No one's answering, I'm guessing.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2125	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2126	And fellow Bosić, here you go. I'm sorry, I didn't see.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2127	Well, you wouldn't just ask, uh, clarification -- who's fighting the hybrid war, no, it can't be concluded by your initiative, who's leading against BiH's hybrid war?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2128	So no one's answering. We don't have an answer. There's no one reported any further. I'm closing the debate. Let's get to the point of the initiative. Let's vote. So present 14 - for 5, versus 8, abstention 1. The Federation of BiH – 5 for, against 4, no one abstained. Republika Srpska – for no one, against 4, abstention 1. We don't have a general, we don't have an entity majority. I understand that this initiative by my colleague Bećirović has not been accepted. So now we have points of ratification of the agreement, right, that's from points 19 to 22, including 22. Please make it clear if we're going to have a single vote to ratify. Prepare to vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2129	It's not over. I'm right. [[no microphone turned on]] So we're voting on whether or not we're going to vote on all the points?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2130	No, no, we'll vote in a package to vote on, unless someone disputes some agreement in that sense. 76 Thank you for not wasting our time. So, dock 14 - for 11, against no one, abstention 3. Federation of BiH – for 7, against no one, abstention 2. Republika Srpska – for 4 against no one, arousing 1. We have a general, we have an entity majority. Points 19 to 22. Ad. 19. - Ad. 22. Ratification of the agreement So now I'm opening a debate on ratification of the agreement from 19 to 22, including 22. Is anyone picking up? A fellow Miletić, right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2132	Very briefly, forgive me if I'm going to make a mistake, so I'm talking about point 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the construction and establishment of a new common border crossing at the location of Bratunac – Ljubovija. I ask you nicely, this is the fourth or fifth time we have discussed the construction of border crossings, so, given the fact that we do not have an agreement signed on the border with the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia, means, please, the competent institutions, above all, the Presidency, the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to approach the process as soon as possible, to come to those agreements. If I don't go deep now, we don't have time, the question is, if tomorrow the border line is above those facilities, we make it my people in trouble. I can't understand that we haven't met this precondition yet and that we can't in good neighbourly spirit with the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia to resolve this issue, I really don't understand. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-10-0.u2133	I thank my colleague Miletić. I'm closing the debate. Let's get clear on the ratification of the agreement from 19 to 22, including 19 and 22. At present 14 – for 13, against no one, abstention 1. The Federation of BiH -- for 9, against no one, abstentioned no one. Republika Srpska – for 4 against no one, 1 abstention. So, we have ratified the agreement from points 19 to 22, including points 19 and 22. 77 With this we have concluded the work of today's meeting of the House of the People, and you shall be informed of the new session. Thank you very much. Session completed at 3:38 p.m.
