ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2900	Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow envoys, present representatives of the Council of Ministers of BiH, respected media representatives warmly welcome you and I am opening the 8th haste session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are 14 envoys present, 5 of them from the Bosniak people, 4 from the Croatian people and 5 from the Serbian people. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] Mr Bariša Čolak is justified, for justified reasons he is unable to attend today's session. For the 8th emergency session, I propose Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 7th haste session of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. The request of five envoys to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to convene an emergency session/emergency session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. This is a harmonised agenda. Does anyone come forward for a word, do they have any changes and additions to the agenda? As no one shall appear in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, the agenda shall be deemed adopted and shall not be voted upon in accordance with Article 62. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. We're moving to the first item of the agenda, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 7th haste session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports, I don't see any interest in the debate. We are voting on the minutes of the 7th haste session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Please initiate voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2902	Can we do it again? [[no microphone turned on]] 2
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2903	Thank you. Request for, please repeat the voting procedure. Excuse me, now please vote. Thank you. We find that we have from the 13 present who joined the vote – for 9, against no one, abstentioned 4. The Federation of BiH – 9 for, none against and abstention. Republika Srpska -- no one, no one against, four abstentions. There's a general majority, and there's no entity majority. Are we going to agree right now or... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] We're going to the second round of pleas. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you. At present 13, joined the vote more precisely 13 – for 9, against no one, abstention 4. From the Federation of BiH – 9 for, against no one, abstentioned no one. Republika Srpska -- no one for and against, 4 abstentions. There's a general and entity majority. I agree that the minutes of the 7th haste session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH have been adopted. Thank you very much. We're moving on to the second item of today's agenda, Ad. 2. Request of five envoys to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to convene an emergency session of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2906	... I would like to underline that in early October I made a public call to Mr Izetbegović at that time as the chairman of the House of Peoples to ___________(?) 3 [[no microphone turned on]] It's on. To call a session of the House of Peoples. In early November, given that there was a rotation at the head of the House of Peoples, I also sent a similar request to Mr Čović to convene a meeting of the House of Nations in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Peoples. Since there was no further call for the House of Nations session, I held a series of talks and we five delegates, or 1/3 delegates in the House of Peoples, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, submitted a request to hold an emergency session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Today, I want to make it very clear to the Dayton Peace Agreement with no annex and no provision has foreseen that a blockade of the highest BiH legislative body could occur. The BiH Constitution also does not foresee such an option, our Rules of Procedure on the work of the People's House very clearly stipulates that we must have meetings at least once a month, and ultimately we have the Ethics Code of Conduct of MPs and delegates, which also requires us to act in accordance with applicable legal acts and to carry out our duties. That is why we launched this initiative and suggested that today we have an emergency session with a point that we have titled as – Information from the BiH House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly on the reasons for the blockade of the highest legislative body of BiH with a specific focus on the legal basis of blocking this highest legal authority. Now I'm obliged to say why exactly the legal basis. As initiators and signatories of this emergency session request, we are not interested in subjective political assessments and evaluations of anyone, we are precisely interested in this legal aspect now – what is the legal act in this country on the basis of which it is possible to block the highest legislative body of the BiH state? We signatories of this, this request, the domestic public, the international public, all seek a concrete answer to that question. I think today, however, by calling this session and coming to this session, a positive signal has been sent. We have come here to the Parliamentary Assembly, to the House of Peoples, as a real man, I don't think we can solve everything today, but with good will and with respect, and I particularly underline, the principles of constitutionality and legality, all the problems in this country, as well as in any other country, can be solved. It is very important that we stick to the principles of constitutionality and legality. To us delegates in the House of Nations, especially the College of the House of Nations, it would be very important if we started to adhere to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Peoples. I've been preparing this session to do one analysis of this Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, from the end of July to the present day, 16 members of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH have been directly violated, namely Article 3, Article 8, Article 9, Article 11, Article 13, Article 18, Article 19, Article 23, Article 55, Article 56, 86, 93, 155, 156, 157, 157, and Article 170. From Dejton to this day, this has never happened in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly building to violate so many members of the Rules of Procedure in this way. It is not a good message, and today it is an opportunity for us to get out of this party in some way and return to the frameworks of constitutionality and legality. When I talk about it, I want to make it very clear today that I remind you of our binding Rules of Procedure. Article 8 (1) – The delegate shall have the rights and responsibilities established by the Constitution, by law, by decision, by the Code of Conduct of MPs and delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. This is very important to underline. Then the position (2) of the same member – the delegate has the right and the duty to attend the session of the House and the session of committees. As you can see from the Rules of Procedure, delegates do not only have the right to have duties, and the first duty is to attend meetings. Article 11. The rights and duties of delegates, position (2) – the delegate is obliged to deal with issues of political and public interest. 4 Article 11(3) – the rights and responsibilities of the position (1) and (2) of this member of the delegation shall be exercised in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Gentlemen in the College of the House of Peoples, in accordance with the competences of the College, you are also obliged to ensure that MPs can carry out their duties in accordance with the Constitution and with the Rules of Procedure and those duties to carry out, among other things and above all, meetings of the House of Peoples. That is why today is an opportunity to hear the answer of the House of Nations College to a specific question, to the question – what is the legal basis of the blockade of the highest legislative body? We need to get an answer to that question. Of course, I repeat, today is also the opportunity to not only continue to harass all BiH citizens and peoples, but to finally send people positive messages. It is a positive message that we have all returned here today to the legal authorities of the BiH state, to show willingness to dialogue, to work in legal bodies and to discuss and decide the things we are responsible for. So aside from the College, which needs to answer these questions, I would ask everyone else to really try to send positive messages to the entire Bosnian Herzegovina public. People expect peace and security, because they're very upset with what's happened in recent months. I understand that here I can send a number of messages that can further complicate the situation in BiH, but here I believe in my own name, I believe in the name of all five signatories of this emergency session request that we really begin to carry out our duties in the way envisaged by the legal acts of this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2908	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? kolega Izetbegović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2909	So, sir, colleague Bećirović asked the College – what are the legal basis for the blockade, this, to which we testify? They're gone, I don't think there's any other basis for what we're living right now, so neither legal nor political, nor reasonable, and I think the only way to stop this kind of thing from happening. The rules of things regulate, pay for not coming to work and doing damage, and every citizen of this country is really irresponsible, because I think that the damages of huge stubborn, stubborn shallows, the damages can be measured in billions of marks, hundreds of thousands of evicted people, and I'm afraid that in ten years, if it continues, we'll wonder what was going on in this country in 2020, 2021, when the country lost its biological substance and when young, healthy people went away and there were some 2030, wondering who was going to earn our pension. So, first of all, I appeal to people, to politicians to be responsible, reasonable, there's no reason for what we're really living right now. So it's time to turn to the future, stop looking back, talk more about what leads us forward, as little as possible about what we disagree on, we won't agree on the past, but if we're responsible and smart people should agree on the future of this country. There's so much, uh, Denise in my answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2910	Thank you. Next call came a colleague of Marina Pendeš. Here you go. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2911	Thank you. Dear members of the College, colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers. I was a little surprised by Mr. Izetbegović's discussion, because on behalf of the College, he said there is no legal basis for the blockade. First, I think it is very important that someone here who is accusing of the blockade defines what the concept of the blockade is, that it is called to forget the past, cannot help but forget Mr. Izetbegović's past.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2912	The college... should forget the past, I just said... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2913	All right, let's take it in a row and we'll take your word for it. Just sign up for the word...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2914	So, I believe that this is the highest body, as Mr Bećirović said, and as a body and as members here we make representatives of three constituent people, which is all defined in this peace agreement in Dayton and please we are not all lawyers, we are not even finished political science, there are engineers, but I believe that engineers are very well-reading the Peace Agreement, as the Rules of Procedure can read well. It is very important to get the preconditions for the organisation and maintenance of all sessions. As a citizen, the Hrvatica of this BiH state and as a BiH citizen, which is defined by this Dayton Peace Agreement, as opposed to those in '92. Or, it says definitively, in which way their citizenship will be resolved, I have the right to speak and call upon all of us and remind us that history must be a teacher of our lives and that we do not make mistakes that some have made 30 years ago in this country of BiH. The state of BiH is my country, I am also a Hrvatica, so by chance I have the citizenship of the Republic of Croatia itself and I am a member, a citizen of the European Union, but that does not mean that I do not love this country, not the state, but the homeland of BiH, but I want to arrange for everything that is written in the Peace Agreement to guarantee constitutional constitutional constitutional equality, if I may say so, of all peoples. Maybe this term I've used is not a legal concept, but you'll understand, you'll understand this medium, or people who listen to us. Everyone here we represent someone, I can't speak here on behalf of those who didn't give me confidence, but on behalf of those who gave me confidence, and in that sense this is the first thing I need, but not in the way that you've, excuse me, imagined it, because if someone thinks someone's blocking it, then there must be probably some explanation, and that's why I think we should go back to the main cause and the reason why someone thinks that or possibly not they've gotten the conditions. I think this is a good topic to discuss why we are not going to change the electoral law, why we are not going to change the electoral law in a way that also the Croatian people in this country are truly constitutional. Here's a look, here's a media look, the cameras, says just before the agenda, says - an emergency session, and then at Cyrillic - an emergency session, so much about the consistency, the equality of the Croatian language, because it's not here in this high house, in this House of Peoples. And that is why I think it is necessary to have a public debate and move to change what is necessary for us, and that is to amend the electoral law in order to fully stick to the Peace Agreement. Thank you. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2915	Thank you. The next one was applied to a colleague named Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2916	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues allow me to say a few words, because I think this is both a moment and a place to say it. The first thing to remind you is that delegates in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly have been elected by the National Assembly of Republika Srpska and they must strictly stick to the conclusions made by this National Assembly, therefore, we have an obligation. The second thing, counterpart Bećirović mentioned earlier is that the principles of constitutionality and legality should be respected, and I add that – where would be our end if we hadn't worked all these years to bring down the Dayton Peace Agreement, unconstitutionally doing everything we did, came to the position we are in today. Nobody needs to be explained, and we're here today trying to create an illusion that we don't know why this House isn't working. Mr Izetbegović says the damages are huge, which have been caused by the fact that the Parliamentary Assembly is not functioning, and I add that we also think we just don't see a mistake in the same places. But let me remind you first of all, in 23th of this year, there was a law supplementing BiH's criminal law or so on. Inc's law, you don't need to talk about how this has caused it in public. On 26 July, therefore, the conclusions of representatives of ten political parties based in Republika Srpska, who have MPs in the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, were agreed after three days, with regard to the decision of the High Representative on the imposition of the Law supplementing the BiH Criminal Law. What is it, what is the National Assembly, what message has it sent to us who sit in the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly? 1. So, we representatives of political parties from Republika Srpska reject the imposed decisions of the High Representative, we find them unacceptable and insignificant. 2. We do not believe there are conditions for the decision-making of Serbian representatives in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Ministers of BiH unless there is a need for participation in order to prevent decisions against Republika Srpska's interests until the issue of imposed law is resolved. 3. We reject any imposition of decisions in BiH, and we find that the High Representative is not legally elected in accordance with the envisaged procedure. These are the conclusions addressed to the National Assembly, which, at its 20th session of July 30th this year, reached the following conclusion: The National Assembly of Republika Srpska supports the conclusions that have been agreed on, what I read earlier, in the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, president of the political parties based in Republika Srpska, who have MPs, and in connection with the latest decision by the High Representative on the imposition of the Law-Making Act in BiH. So, I made a little reminder of where we were and where we are now and why that is. So, in our opinion, we consider the main culprit for the BiH OHR crisis. These seven, the high representatives, have also shown themselves to be the country's greatest enemies, and have brought us into the position we are in today. Although the authority of the High Representative shall be taxed in Article 2. Anexa X concluded by the Peace Implementation Council in BiH as an illegal body or an ad hoc body the High Representative received additional powers, which is completely illegal and constitutes a harsh violation of the Dayton Peace Agreement. In this way, powers that do not have a legal basis have been adopted, a number of amendments to the Republika Srpska Constitution have been adopted, thus the High Representative practically took over from himself the exercise of a constitutional authority that we cannot reconcile with. The Republika Srpska imposed 260 decisions, which the High Representative had made or amended, amended the constitution, replaced the elected officials. Let me ask myself, in fact, what BiH passed the last imposed law, which effect had brought this country or... did an additional problem, because the man who passed the law quickly then fled from here, not to wait for the fruits of his efforts and work, could not expect anything good. The fact that we ourselves are a good part of the blood for it, and we are guilty because in this country thanks to certain political parties, in this context I speak primarily by thinking about the biggest political party of Bošnjak, there is no capacity for talks. A country that has been phoning for so many years without its key players sitting at the table and agreeing on all the problems it has, but at the same time the future how, what kind of future it should look like, it doesn't stand a chance. Apparently, the Bosniak political parties did not have the willingness to sit with the other two peoples and talk about what they're talking to foreigners today, it's a small capacity, and maybe we could have done a lot more if we were just ready to sit down. In which country can you not talk and talk about the future? That's why they say it's an impossible state from which it cannot survive in this way. Those who expect foreigners to make them a state, preferably the unitary one that would best suit them, will hardly grant their wish, now we see that many reactions alone... of many world destinations say that this is not exactly a recipe that could be applied in this country. What's good is that the other two nations have said enough at one point. Representatives of the Croatian people have fought to have their vote on the inability to choose their own political representatives heard far enough and to be seriously considered and will certainly have repercusions to the electoral law itself. For years, representatives of the Serbian people have tolerated and endured the expectation that things will change, that something will happen and that we will start as partners to work, not as someone who will try to kidnap or impose, part of the Dayton Peace Accords to change because it does not belong to him by any right, but it may belong to him if it does so by force. We have come to the point that the National Assembly in the period from 28th to 10th of next month will consider six important documents that will decide both Republika Srpska and this country. Did we have to come to that position? I said what had to be done to prevent it or to come out as winners all and no one as a loser, but that's why we weren't ready. It will be an answer to all the unconstitutional behaviours of the High Representatives, but also to the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court that is acting by law, there is no Law on the Constitutional Court, he, when the High Representative doesn't do something, then the Constitutional Court does it, so there's a lot of it and things can't stay on the same footing. What's the solution? So at different levels, different battles are being fought now. For us, it is a solution to withdrawing the imposed law and leaving those in charge, parliaments, to do so and to make decisions. And secondly, leaving, yes, as..., I refer this as a priority immediately, to the departure of foreign judges from the Constitutional Court, which has so far acted on unconstitutional grounds. If that doesn't happen, we came here today just to explain what I'm talking about, if that doesn't happen, it means if we don't have a basis for what we got as a warrant from the National Assembly, we're not going to be involved in the work of the People's House, no matter what we're supposed to do here, it is. A bunch of it's illegal and unconstitutional, so no one has to tell us what it is right now, what's unconstitutional is not coming to the House of People's sessions, you have to make assumptions. We're ready if you're ready to talk, if you're willing to talk about all this, if you're willing to withdraw the imposed law and if you're willing to talk about constitutional court issues seriously and responsibly. Thank you. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2917	I'm also in my first presentation, and I'm going to say it again, very clearly, that today at this session for a number of reasons I want to stick to the legal facts exclusively. When I say and talk about legal facts, then I first strongly underline – Article 56(3) of our Rules of Procedure says that meetings of the House of Nations are held at least once a month. That, then, is in the Rules of Procedure. Secondly, when Mrs. Majkić speaks of obligations, I must again point to the next legal fact here – there is neither my obligation to the entity of the Federation of BiH nor yours to the entity of Republika Srpska nor anyone here in the House of Peoples. At the first session of the House of Nations, we made it very clear what we are bound to do. So that there's no dilemma I'll read, here's what we've committed ourselves to. Article 3 Rules of Procedure – I obavezivati to exercise consciously my duties, respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina, protect and defend myself for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, we have sworn this here in this room as an oath in this House. Third thing, OHR. The OHR is Annex X of the Dayton Peace Agreement, an integral part of the Dayton Constitutional and Legal System. Annex X, Article 4, talks about co-operation with OHR and the High Representative. Article 5 says the High Representative is the final interpreter for the Dayton Peace Agreement. Article 2 _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Yes, Article 3 (2) – all parties will co-operate with the High Representative. The BiH Constitutional Court, member of the VI Constitution, says it is a final and binding body, i.e. making final and binding decisions. I think, and by ending this, if anyone in Bosnia and Herzegovina is going to unilaterally make any decisions other than the authorities provided for by the Dayton Peace Agreement and the Constitution, we all fall into an unprecedented adventure together. So it is good today that we are gathered together to express our views and return to the legal frameworks.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2919	Thank you. I will in future as soon as the red light turns on to you, you keep an eye out, take the word, so we all stick to the same way. My kolegica Majkić, correction of the wrong quote, i.e., I'm sorry, replica. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2920	What I'm saying is that unilateral decisions were made by those who destroyed the Dayton Peace Agreement that no longer resembled what was signed on a military base, not like that. Secondly, I consider our obligations, we from the Serbian People's Club, to be conscious of our obligations. I try to show it and manifest it every time it is, where it is, either in Parliament's working bodies or at home sessions. And no one can really argue with me that this is some kind of silence, so that's why we're not coming here. The National Assembly has chosen us, and we endure her, and we are obliged to respect all that she gives us in the warrant. You may disagree with that, but it is our position that we will represent now, which we have represented before and which we will always represent. So don't insist on something you don't have a chance to win that kind of battle. It is clear to all of us that we must represent the interests of all the peoples, and rarely when we are, rarely, unable to remember that I once did not represent the interests of all the peoples, especially to look only at the people from whom I originate, and to neglect the other peoples who live here. And I've clearly manifested it... until now. So, anything Mr. Bećirović said I could transfer in the same context to those who have been doing this for years which is why we are in a... situation today. So I ask you to have, to make sure that there are those of us who think differently from what you suggest.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2921	I can't see the replica anymore. A fellow official named Miletić reported for discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2922	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to thank you and your deputies for organizing today's emergency or emergency session of the House of Peoples. But here, before I say a few words, I want to thank all of you, especially you from the order of the Serbian people for coming today. Regardless of the motives of your arrival, I think it's really high time we sat down and started working responsibly. In the beginning, I would like, uh, to point out that, conditionally speaking, to make one correction to the wrong assumption, what Mr. Bećirović is saying. It is true that in Article 18 or Article 18, one of the views states that you, as members of the College, are obliged to create assumptions for a session, or for work, but also for a member or Article 56(3), are generally not required, but it is said that, as a rule, the House of People should be held at least once a month. I'll draw your attention here to one thing that requires us all here sitting in this room to be a shame. I'm not going in, because I'm not the controller here or the auditor who, how, how, and how consciously he's doing his job, but from the extra breaks we've had so far, not to call it blockages, I'm going to point out a few facts. So we're not sitting in the next periods, from 13.03 to 24.06.'19. three months, from 24.06. to 20.12.6 months, from 14.02 to 28.05. three months and now from 01.07., is it, to this day, almost five months, representing 17 months of 34 months of our work, which translates into that we have not actually worked half of our working hours, and for which we have been greatly rewarded by the citizens of this country, by Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak and all others living in this country. I think it's really wrong and I think, and perhaps, at the risk of being in front of you and the public, of turning out to be a utopian or a fool, I finally believe that this country and your Serbian and our Croatian, and your Bosniak, and of all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 10 And this is the place where we have to talk, even at the cost of sitting here every day. I respect your political position, and all that you said doesn't mean that you're right, but that's what we need to sit down and talk about. Mrs. Marina is talking about election law, so let's sit down and see what the problems are. Because this is how we behave we simply brought all the peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina and all the citizens to fear this situation. People live in expectation, people leave this country. In the end, where we will be delegates here tomorrow, from which people when everyone will leave. So I'm really asking you, so I'm really asking you. Here's the lady talking about that communications area, so let's open it ourselves. First of all, I think the responsibility on you three is in accordance with article or Article 18. And to finish, I'm not going to refer because I really don't want to abuse myself in any way, to break this atmosphere like it is, I'm not going to analyze the Dayton Peace Agreement and what it says, I believe I know well even though I'm not a lawyer. But if that's the problem, if the problem is the Constitutional Court, if the problem is the Office of the High Representative, then let's talk about it. I'm going to name only one depression, so we've had a chance to talk here about the initiatives that I've endured when it comes to war crimes. Well, we could talk about it, say what you don't like. I've seen one of you, recently at a political rally about like this, that he, that that person thinks, is here so that it doesn't turn out that I'm speaking to him personally, that, under the supposed signs, I can't quote, that every person who thinks it's something good, under the supposed signs, is abnormal. And it is insane, but let's just ask these questions if we need to talk here every day. Well, you should not hesitate that any issue that is important in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the Serbian, Croatian or Bosniak people, but I also ask you for citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina to discuss these things here. And to finish, in the end, whatever happens in Bosnia and Herzegovina, whatever happens, so if you want to have a worst scenario in your head, we'll all end up at the table again and we'll have to talk about any issues in Bosnia and Herzegovina again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2923	The next one checked in with a colleague, Sarajlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2924	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Honorable College, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. As co-signator of this initiative, and of course on the initiative of Dr Bećirović, I am obliged to say, and as president of the club, a few words about the initiative and a few words about these discussions today. So, speaking in assembly rooms with Mr. Bećirović, Mr. Munib Jusufović, Dr. Fazlić, Mr. Miletić, I signed this initiative precisely for the reason that this session would take place, because the four-month break, respecting these annual holidays, is too long, esteeming, of course, everything Mrs. Dušanka Majkić said. And I think this is the way to open a dialogue and find a solution. But dialogue also has to be a two-way street, you know, you can't do something that's the axioms of this country, uh, pushing aside. Of course, I respect your legitimacy given to you by the National Assembly of Republika Srpska by delegationing you to this honorable House, and I respect that you have attitudes that are occupied there and you defend those views. But at the same time, it doesn't give you the right to undermine the foundations of this country's 11th House of Honor. How and in what way? Problematizing the role of OHR, which Mr Bećirović clearly told you is an integral part of our sacred letter called the Dayton Peace Agreement. So he's part of that agreement. And then, of course, you go one step further and you say the Constitutional Court, which is also in that Dayton Agreement. It will continue, of course, to go, here you are announcing with the Republika Srpska Assembly, on the return of jurisdiction, etc. It's not a road, dialogue must be a two-way street. As the other day said the Srbin knew, paraphrasing, in Dayton that this would never come out they would never agree to sign such an agreement at a Wright-Patterson base in Dayton, Ohio. A wise man said that in a world of the better peace could not even be achieved. And thank God, here we have since 26 years built society, there have been no victims, there have been no casualties, there have been no bombings, and at some crossroads, let me say, integration processes, both towards the European Union and NATO. I am aware of the speech of my colleague, esteemed, that the world is changing around us, and the closer and further environment, and that some other winds may feel to try what has been achieved in the construction of this society, of course deeply divided, deeply complex, with problems as they are, not to mention life, and pandemic and everything that has happened to us, but this society has gone forward. From one state of war, from one death, the agreement was reached at the US base in Ohio State. And because in these circumstances better peace could not be achieved and because of what we are saying today 26 years after, we need to continue talking, dialogue should be conducted. I respect your legitimacy and respect what the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has ordered you to do, but you must hear the other side, because dialogue is, I repeat, a two-way street. And not to open now the questions that have been applied to the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, about rights and injustices, the constitutionality and equality of all of us here as representatives of the people of the House of Peoples on every inch of this country. The path is still ahead of us and I deeply believe that we have the strength to achieve this peace and to get this Dayton Peace Agreement and this Constitution, in which both the OHR and the Constitutional Court are, we must move on no matter where today's world moves. I think that at our course of state of all citizens and peoples and states who want to be a member of the European Union and NATO alliance, we must remain. I would like to thank you and the College for calling this session. In that sense, I would just end up with an explanation why I co-signed as president of the club this initiative for the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2925	Thank you. Now we have replicas. kolegica Majkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2926	Many times in all these years we have called you to dialogue, and many times you have explicitly said no, we will not negotiate with anyone, firmly believing that you will be able to build a state yourself, in fact not you, you did not have the capacity to do it, but the foreigners would do it to you. Now we see it's far from real. And every reality rules out your efforts so far. That's one thing. Secondly, if you had a real desire to sit down to the representatives of the other two nations and talk about everything that is a real problem in this society, not all of your concentration would be focused on the sanctions of Milorad Dodik. Do you think a solution in Bosnia and Herzegovina 12 will arise the moment they impose sanctions on Milorad Dodik? Well, you can see who's the bearer of political ideas and who's actually doing everything he does in accordance with the Dayton Peace Accords, so no one can take that as evil. It was best described by the Hungarian foreign minister. Everything Dodik said was in line with the Dayton Peace Accords, you won't find him on any of the Yotas. And we'll stick to it for the rest of it. So, if your intentions were clean, you wouldn't have been all the time before Inck left begging him who God would have passed and imposed this law that you knew what kind of repression he was going to produce. There is no Rules of Procedure of this House or anything that can force us to decide and continue to sit with those who don't even think about being involved in the country's future. So you have to keep that in mind. We just came here today to talk about it. When's that gonna be next? Then when this law is no longer in force and when the issue of the BiH Constitutional Court begins to be resolved.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2927	Here you go, colleague Pendeš.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2928	Thank you. Since his colleague Sarajlić said – it is not us, we are the state of citizens and peoples. We are not citizens and peoples, Bosnia and Herzegovina has been and is now, and will be, the state of three constituent nations. This is also defined through AVNOJska, the other day it was 25.11., many are basemented in such Bosnia and Herzegovina, which says Bosnia and Herzegovina is Serbian, both Croatian and Muslim. Nor can it be without, then, I mean that I am talking about AVNOJ, as well as in Dayton, Srbin, Hrvat and Bošnjak as constituent peoples and other citizens. So Bosnia and Herzegovina can't be civil unless the three constituent nations decide.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2929	A fellow Sarajlić, a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2930	I agree, so Ms. Marina Pendeš has issued a constitutional decree, meaning three constituent peoples and citizens. I wasn't talking about it, and what she's talking about was happening on November 25th, not on AVNOY. Today's AVNOY Day. And Mrs. Majkić, I repeat, dialogue is a two-way street, so this Dejton is signed and, I paraphrase, it's where we live. It didn't come yesterday, nor did I mention Mr. Milorad Dodik here, nor will I mention him, this, but also decisions, and laws, and all that has been passed through both homes of this Assembly will be resolved here, and not elsewhere, I repeat, with respect for your position and the legitimacy that you have as the elected delegate from the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, respecting your views which are, or attitudes of the Assembly that bind you. But you have to know there's no hidden plan. So here decisions are made, in this BiH Parliamentary Assembly and nowhere else. No matter how much, I say, that the environment in the world is still changing so that maybe, uh, there's some hope for some other arrangement, decisions will be made in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2931	Comrade Miletić, here you go, replica. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2932	Very short. ...is one that we don't come out of here with some misunderstanding. I will read the last preamble before the BiH Constitution is adopted from word to word, so please listen to this. Citing the basic principles agreed on 08/09/95. in Geneva and 26/09/95. in New York, Bosniaks, Hrvat and Srbin as constituent peoples, opened parentheses, (together with others), closed brackets, and the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina decide that the Constitution of BiH is: two points, and the members of the Constitution go. So, the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, like all three constituent nations, have the same rights, obligations and duties as everyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2933	Next debate, colleague Jusufović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2934	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I think the first assumption has been reached, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the acts, which is scheduled for this session on our initiative. And that's if there's anything legal, respect for law, that first part is fulfilled. I'm not going to elaborate everything else, and I'm not going to repeat anything that my previous colleagues have said, except I'm going to look back at a few thesis that some have fallen into my eyes very clearly, and some I'm just going to briefly explain. Kolega Bećirović as the applicant of the initiative, and together with him, asked very clearly and precisely the College to clarify the legal basis for us, I will use the term, blockades of institutions, state institutions, in this case the House of Peoples and Parliament. We can talk about the term blockages if you want to, uh, argue or not argue, but it seems to me from what Mrs. Majkić said was very clear and evident recognition that it was a blockade, a conscious blockade, under the cloak because representatives of the international community or high representatives brought something, challenged, etc. It's two pairs of socks, and if it's about high representatives, there's a debate going on in that field, and here we are talking about the House of Peoples. None of this, of the legal facts that we would at least at least support as something that is the basis that the work of Parliament has been blocked we have not heard here. However, I have heard one statement or she is just me, perhaps I have noticed it, this, which is a terrible threat to me, and if I understand it correctly, Mrs. Majkićka, you have said this, I will say that I have heard it, and that sounds terribly dangerous to me for this situation we are in, you said yes, you connected the representatives of all the peoples and then you made a statement that the two peoples are against one people. In this case, representatives of the Serbian people and representatives of the Croatian people, as you explained, are against the Bosniak people. Here we can talk about politics, about political individual parties where we have very different views on many issues. There is this also in the Serbian bloc, both in Bosniak and in civil, call Bosnian, and a little less in Croatian, but there is also in Croatian, for the reason that fewer political parties are partying, as I say, to these parliaments. But if this is it, if you are so, I don't know if you mean it, it's very one, I understand, very dangerous thesis, very much in these political circumstances and which in a certain way can be interpreted very, very awkward. Because whenever there were two against one in Bosnia, it didn't turn out right. But here, maybe I didn't get it right. Furthermore, you talk on several occasions about the talks, that is, the dialogue offered by you, as you say to the representatives of... Bosniak representatives. We can accept that... Any conversation is welcome if he implies that he starts from, first of all, honest positions 14 and something that is in jurisdiction, so to speak, certain bodies, here specifically... However, what I know, at least what I've heard so far, I'll list a few... We cannot accept dialogue, here I am speaking individually now, I am not speaking on behalf of anyone, not on behalf of the Bošnjak, but speaking on my own behalf..., I could not accept dialogue, or conversations under the conditions that you ask on matters – peaceful disunity, no conversations, I would never enter those conversations. That's what you know if you start talking about what's next. I wouldn't even ask this question, we're not in charge of Inck's law, the Genocide Act. You can talk to representatives of the international community, or I'm talking about the Office of the High Representative, so if there is a... variation then we can all sit down and talk if there's a solution that leads, but I'm going to go into the talks to cancel it at Parliament, absolutely not. Furthermore, the talks you requested about the Constitutional Court, that the Constitutional Court judges leave the party. It's also part of the Dayton Treaty, over there, over here, so the foreigners are setting them up, as far as I know, not setting them up at least, here, the House of Peoples. So, etc., etc. In this way, let me just say, you have the right to express political views and dissatisfaction both with this and with that, it's everyone's right. I allow dialogue and it is being conducted, and I think it is necessary and necessary, as is the example for the sake of the above – an electoral law that has been withdrawn by God for how many years, I don't know how many, which in a certain way, puts the political situation in place. And intense conversations are being held and very different aspects exist in all political factors, as I say. We hope that there should be some conversation that, in a certain way, relaxes the situation. It's quite something that is precisely the jurisdiction of the organs, the internal organs. The second thing is that the international community here appears as a mediator, but that is the objective of Bosnia and Herzegovina's parliament to resolve the issue. I wish he'd taken care of it a long time ago. It's not. It's a question of what the internal question is. However, in the end, let me say however you, uh, speak, today we are talking about, oh, whether we are going to apply the Constitution, the laws, the Rules of Procedure and those provisions. You can have the political attitudes you want to express, but it's really hard for anyone to stand up, or do what I say, it has an act that forbids me and his colleagues who want to work. In this case whatever it means to your dissatisfaction, whether by this law, whether Inckom, whether or not... you are in a certain way preventing us and the constitutional right to work our own. Here's who, here's who in this case who, who doesn't make you, here's who, let me say... The question is... do you have the right to do that? You have the right to be with yourself, uh, you have no right to forbid me to work, and this is how you forbid... Here, these are some of the thesis that are derived from this in a certain way. We'll deal, we can go into deep politics now, everything and everything, just keep, uh, stretching out, but here I don't see that the solution is exactly that way. The fact that this is growing into spite of some kind is the fact that the disastrous consequences are both on one side and on the other side, and on the third side, that this country is emptying out, that is the fact that this country will economically suffer the severe consequences, and you can see that everyone is suffering them in addition to all these circumstances. If we all come to our senses, we won't, or we'll break in together, see what we do. Here, that's something I think we should approach in a more rational way. So even if you're going to talk about this law, Inck, it should be done here, to do business, and parallelly to give your dissatisfaction with it or with some other things and everyone who has, to run it, and not in a certain way to stop and block the work of the organs. So much... 15
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2935	Thank you. The speaker, Mr Dragan Čović, picked up the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2936	Dear colleagues and colleagues, all present, perhaps a few words only comment on the environment in which we work and what we have today organised the session. It is true that one of the reasons and our five envoys who submitted their request, but you should know that before that, we have already scheduled three members of the College to talk in the same way, you are certainly familiar with it. I am afraid that even today we are trying to use the skills of communication between ourselves or between all of us to take back what suits us from everything that is the Constitution of BiH, which clearly defines a lot of our relations, and what is the relationship between the three constituent peoples, the legitimate representation of these peoples and all the citizens of BiH. Noting that every representative of BiH's constituent peoples is also a citizen, don't ever underestimate it and once again draws its civil rights and freedoms from the highest international standards. If we're going to get into history, the truth is again we're the only ones who haven't listed in a closer environment of our own in '21. For years, we did it in '13. So where will you see how many of us have been declared representatives of the constituent people, how many persons, BiH citizens have pleaded as representatives of national minorities, very precise items, and how many of those who did not want to make a statement at all, citizens who did not want to declare themselves as members of the constituent people, national minorities, and I am not saying this for one reason only to show this relationship 97% versus two and a half percent, as opposed to, I don't know, less than zero percent. But even then, if you remember correctly, we ran a whole campaign that we would plead, that after that, we would have some political capital in our hands, in the outwitting between us, and that outwitting we tied to that imperfect Dayton Agreement or Annex IV, which is more or less our Constitution. I'm convinced that even today when we're having a little discussion, we've tried very skillfully again to talk about some of the things in the Rules of Procedure as to whom it suits, from the Constitution as to whom it suits, even from, we've taken all the annexes a little touch from Dayton as to whom it suits. There are institutions that can be compliant when something is not in accordance with the Constitution. We have a problem that the institution has three representatives of international institutions within it. As there is also a very clear way of interpreting our Rules of Procedure. The fact is that we have not done it properly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure so far, but we have always found some tolerance between ourselves that we consider it normal, because nowhere so precise, but we have used the right to as the House of Peoples or the Upper House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which some would like to put out, destroy, undo, whatever you want, which will never happen, that we can clear right now, very clearly comes at the end of this series of activities in the final adoption of legislative decisions, the law and everything that our Parliamentary Assembly of BiH makes. One of those discussions that we had at the College, I thought even today that we'd be able to talk about, in the sense that we'd make some conclusions eventually on how to get out of this whole thing. A kolegica, Majkić, expressed one view of how it represents or sees the Serbian People's Club here. The wish was to simply say to everyone we can't in the way that it's been done so far to try to close our eyes on things that concern someone else and try the skill of looking for words that we'll communicate with our friends, party colleagues, voters, create an environment already for the next election in '22. A year. One good part of the potential, the political potential, someone just called it civil so he connected it to the proboscis, 16 would like to hear it in this honorable home, which means really probative from the aspect of politics, whoever it is that, which means, I don't know, everything we use as an expression to separate someone from someone else. And I've always said, and from this pay phone at least a few times, it's the only constitutional patriotism that makes sense, all the other false patriotisms are the patriotism of one street, one house, one party, maybe one nation, but first of all, because when someone says they want to shut down one home, this home, because they think it's easier to make decisions. What would make it easier to make decisions? Since I am addressing as, behold, a representative of the Hrvat in this honorable home, that would mean, in the Federation, that the dominant majority, by the numbers of that last census of a nation, can make all decisions when angry or even should not be angry in the Federation government without anyone, in the House of Representatives without anyone and then should still be freed of the House of Peoples and everything is settled. If a minority in the Federation looked across, he would have the right to get angry tomorrow and do it that way, as he has done so many times. And that's why it's good for us to talk here, especially to talk about this tone, to try to understand that these people who are sitting in some offices in Sarajevo right now, colleague Izetbegović has just gone to those offices, I'll do something later, some of you may in some other term, want to help us, but I'm sure if this country has any future ever again on behalf of us will make decisions, so much about the decisions of an ex-high representative. He knows best what he did and what kind of politics he represented and why at that time he passed one or any other law entirely, absolutely whatever. You could hear from the good part of those representatives of international institutions, who are here as friends, who today we only talk the truth about one issue of the BiH Election Law, and now all of us sitting here have at least six or seven different political options, just before me said, regardless of three different sides, because this reality of BiH is exactly the three different sides, and they make BiH. Our three views on history are completely different and when we think about this history for 30 years or 25 years or for a longer time we will again try to show it in completely different ways by neglecting the real situation on the ground. So, the suggestion would be that all BiH's problems are met by strength when we create a prerequisite for this House to work normally, to put those points on the agenda, not in the function of the daily policy, because no one from this House is going to make a big difference. The rest of you who are trying to make use of it will see that the voting bodies are gathering for various reasons again around headquarters in one, another, or third people, which, in my opinion, is not good at all. I am not happy that, for example, in the last elections of 2018, more than 90% of the Hrvat voters gathered around a political bloc in Hrvat, it is a disaster for one plural multilateral thinking, for a modern democratic world, but it is evident that something is happening, so it is not quite so that one who leads a fifth political option in Hrvat can motivate people in this way. We obviously have a problem, and it would be good to talk about this problem, so we should all say when some extremists, who represent themselves as proboscises, as patriots of this desire, say that you've passed in the presidency, so in the next election, you'll go to the House of Peoples. I'll drink a little in a similar language, an affair if you think you can. I think it's wrong, because it's not BiH. I cannot understand that our Federation friends are not able to change the Federation's constitution when they get a decision of the BiH Constitutional Court on the Election Law and the House of Peoples, yet they assure us that this was carried out by believing that in this same home here, only in the second, in the same House Parliament, the Central Election Commission voted without a public tender, without criteria, without regulations, without the basic elements of the Electoral Law that defines it. It just shows the haughtiness of someone who believes he can, and could have done the same in the same procedures, because he has enough hands in Parliament, he didn't want to, he wanted to show. And when I call my colleagues stop a little bit, so it doesn't make sense, pick those same ones, but at least call the competition, so set the criteria for him, everything, and then pick the same ones again, at least to make it legal. Now we should listen to this Central Election Commission to be a legislator, that 17 is leading the election processes next year. Now I could list a lot more of what the Falinka are like, in that Federation of ours you should know we don't have a director of the federal police. You know what? Because it should have been chosen by the Hrvat and you know that it is loud and clear, it must not be a Hrvat, even in the company of representatives of international institutions, some of you were present when we talked about it in the function of the Electoral Law. I deeply believe that we will have enough wisdom to end this election year's story of the Electoral Law, ensure that the legitimate representation of the constituent peoples, quote a provision or an explanation of the decision of the Constitutional Court of BiH, which must be equal under the same Constitution when it comes to the Presidency and the homes of the people of BiH. And when someone tells me and sends me a public message these days, you won't get anything if you don't do it, tell me if it's asking for a conversation or if it's a message, or if you're gonna be good, or if we're gonna choose someone to sit on behalf of the Hrvat for the fourth time. I don't list this all so I can highlight something that we can do in a way that we don't sit and talk together, so I'm trying to talk about these topics with my colleagues where we talk and not by any chance two against one, not by any chance in that way. And when we had these great Croatian thoughts from the BiH presidency as another Bosniak member of the presidency these days that there are two against one, I said it could only be 3:0, each other combination is suicide for BiH or attempt to cheat someone in the process. The competencies of the constitutional are very precisely defined in BiH, the condition, that I will conclude, a condition for our... handing over the membership application that was, if you remember, the coordination mechanism that we discussed here for months. Has anyone pulled him out in the last year, a year and a half to try according to the coordination mechanism to agree on any question? And all our issues are reformal and they are all facing the European Union and conflict of interest, and public procurement, and the VSTV, above all electoral legislation, which is why people from outside come to us, because there is very little time left to solve. And we need to work together, as you wanted, not on the basis of subjective, objective, but on the basis of legal facts, and legal facts in this country, let those who are rightly under the Constitution define what is right, because if I could explain from the bench what the Constitution is, or you, or anyone else, then I'm afraid that we would always have at least seven, eight different concepts of our Rules of Procedure, Dejton, or Annex IV of the Constitution of BiH, and a lot of other things. So, it would give us a lot to talk about, there will be other occasions for sure today, I think that at the end of the day, if we have business conditions, we need to agree on some conclusions and see how further on behalf of this House and address our public, but primarily to all those with whom our work is connected, it is to you executives, first of all to the Council of Ministers, who also does not work, or the House of Representatives, because I am afraid if we had three sessions one by one, we would not have any points of the agenda on the other side of this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2937	I thank the chairman, Mr. Čović.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2938	Thank you. kolega Špirić, come in. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2939	Mr. Chairman, members of the College, fellow delegates, distinguished guests. It's good that we're talking this way today, but I'm afraid if we're imagining this session in a way that we can maintain it, and we're avoiding all the problems that clearly exist in this country with a little stronger or weaker social pathetic, that no one will actually benefit from holding this session. I'm glad that today we have this kind of dialogue and respect for each other, and I think that should follow all the other sessions and all the other conversations. There are at least three sightings in this country, three different sightings, the public knows, it should not be hidden from the public, but what worries me is that there is no willingness for dialogue to bring attitudes closer, we have a unique view of any challenge that stands before this country. Someone calls it a blockade, I think it's not about blocking institutions, but you clearly know that... there are no conditions for making decisions and many of those who say that there is a blockade here actually I am more often in these institutions than those who think that the blockade exists. But it's not enough to call it any disturbance in this country. What worries me and I will be quite open is that there is no, therefore, willingness, there is no political readiness, there is no willingness even in intellectual circles, there is no willingness in the NGO sector to look openly at problems in the eyes, not to go like geese through the fog. In fact, if there's anything more logical than a country that has declared that it has a political consensus for travel and membership in the European Union that after 26 years or 20 years of reforming, there is no political position itself when it gets somewhere that we can't go any further, let people know that we're going to make a critical analysis of the journey, and a critical analysis of the journey is not called obstruction or blockage. So we have received the answer that by conducting the best reforms, under quotes, in this country we are not ready to share – what are we going to do now? The National Assembly, after the imposed law of the former High Representative, Mr. Inck held a session, 26 years after Dejton we get law enforcement, I'm not talking about the content of the law, by the high representative to make one rejoice, and others produce revolt. Those who look forward to it are God's guardians for BiH, those who would like to decide on the problem, in fact, they are called those who block BiH's path. If it is folkal, if we have come to an attitude and therefore I pray today that we understand each other, so we must tell each other what fears are, no one can deceive anyone, openly talk about fears, I understand them, they exist on all sides and we must politically shape the situation to convince each other that there is a possible majorization. Yesterday I heard, don't mind me, and read Professor Papić's text, which he says, I am sorry, but I quote it here – that the formula or paradigm, which our former common state fell apart, a single voice, that the formula was only successfully pessimized by the Bošnjak in BiH. You guys keep reading the messages. So it is, therefore, a message that one man is one vote given the constitution of three constituent nations cannot endure, so we must look for a model that makes us sustainable. And if we do, I can't believe today that there's no readiness if there's one entity, say the National Assembly or the Federation Parliament, holds a session and I don't know what conclusions, that it's not an invitation to talk. I'm worried about the statistics of the Bosniak political establishment that they don't want to discuss problems there if they don't agree with any conclusion. Do you not view this as part of Bosnia and Herzegovina? I don't mean when I say you, I don't speak to you here personally. And if we want and yes, and I think it's quite logical, we can't bring orders to the High Representative, OHR, etc. but we can recommend, let's say, if something did make an irritation, by you unwarranted, and for us justified, let's say put it a little bit out of hand, and let's charge the Council of Ministers to legally shape this matter to talk about it and adopt it in Parliament. Now that's BiH's stability, I see it in 19, I'm sorry. And can we come to such a conclusion? So what happens if we have a law imposed, which people interpret differently, what kind of a repercussion will it have on the future of this country? I have to say, I still don't understand who this crisis was supposed to be, whoever I'm talking to from domestic or international people, but we have a crisis, we're having a tough relationship, it's not good for BiH, and I think we should send a message today to encourage those who are calling for dialogue. If the National Assembly calls for the Federation Parliament's dialogue, will the crown fall from our heads to say today we encourage every kind of dialogue. Well, in that dialogue, I guess something good is going to happen, and no one's going to make anyone accept something that they think is in conflict with interests. I am concerned about this static, therefore, and that is the worst message that I cannot understand that the waiting for a solution outside BiH is interpreted by reform and care for BiH, and the desire to decide on BiH is called obstruction, therefore, about replacing the thesis. The second thing, after a decision has been imposed, we have the Constitutional Court's decision, and you know that the agreement has resolved the judiciary, defense and indirect taxes. So, the Constitutional Court should interpret the Constitution, cannot create a new, new constitutional structure, it is not possible anywhere in the world, and that is what creates a revolution on the Serbian side, we must speak openly. Let's get people to open the story so we can solve it. Here, and here are the foreigners inside, and they're not in there, but 26 years from Dejton with so much international presence, I don't think the international community and institutions should leave, they're necessary to help, we should rely on them, but their behavior has produced so much political parasiteism that part of the political elite is not ready to decide but is waiting for what the international institutions are going to say. Go-stop, go-stop, and it's not good, and we can, why can't we send a message today, we know we need to solve the property issue, right? It will not be resolved by imposing the law, why don't we call on competent institutions that are interested, entities, Republika Srpska, the Federation, cantons, the Brcko District, please come to an agreement. When you have an agreement, it's not a problem for one member of the law to define that the agreement is accepted. Why don't we force the institutions to work in the interest of everyone, which is our task, we don't want it, we expect an older brother to help us. It's not called, in my view, a concern for BiH. And I think that if there's anything we can do today, so what's also not well deserved to be analyzed, from Dejton to this day, we've come into a situation that the two nations are constitutionally expressing dissatisfaction. Hrvat for a reason because they are mayonnaise in electoral legislation, Srbin because from Dayton to this day an entity's jurisdiction has been reduced, voluntarily, reluctantly, under duress, is irrelevant. Can't we just say in the country where we live that we're unhappy and that it doesn't make any sense to us that we're the ones who are blocking and not talking in any way? And what I'm particularly concerned about, colleague Izetbegović, I'm sorry he's not here, he said he doesn't see any reason for such a situation, but that is our problem, everyone sees only those who should not see. Why can't they see that and soon we'll know that the situation is ideal probably not that the representatives of the international community would be here this month or the next quarter, calling, trying to find a solution, and whenever any solution is under... the role of an international someone will be unhappy. Let's turn to each other and to me what's most important, that no one is jeopardizing territorial integrity, Dejton and the Constitution, and I think that different spins about war, about conflicts actually send the ugliest message in this country for 26 years. You know how long it will take politicians to create an international perception that it is possible to change that perception. Again, we will charge some of the next furniture with not working enough for BiH, and we are preparing the international community that this is possible, and we are not sending a message that we want to sit down, talk. _________(?) 20 [[no microphone turned on]] .... let go, I'm only saying what's wrong with creating perception here, I didn't come here today to defend anyone, but I want to say we don't ruin every session and we understand each other. This is, if this was a light time, if it were a light solution, it wouldn't have waited for us. The problem is, gentlemen, that these halls of the Parliamentary Assembly are 24 hours empty, which... I can't believe, is anyone forbidden to sit down and talk about these challenges, why the country is institutionally emptied. So these are the questions I want to talk about, we need to talk, not accuse each other. It's not my goal here to accuse anyone, it's our goal today to send a message to all those seeking dialogue deserve people's support, it's municipal parliaments, they're entity parliaments, it doesn't matter to me, cantonal, can we at least agree here. Come on, people, let's see if we can send a message that it's our help, so maybe we're not the political generation that we can carry out the burden that we're expected to carry, to put something on hold to take a step forward. Can we, like, be ready for that? If we are, I see a better time ahead, believe me. Can we say that, here, the Constitutional Court, please interpret the Constitution, but you can't create a new constitutional structure, it's nowhere, I don't know that it exists anywhere. I don't argue that people may think it's for the best of intentions, but if it comes out, why, let's say, I'd be happy if I know that something bothers the Bošnjak, I don't see dangerous people sitting here, evil people, I don't want to believe it, and I don't know why it would... a smile to the Bošnjak if ten times from Dejton to today the Nardon Assembly goes with conclusions, and that's actually a request to talk, and Sarajevo doesn't want to read those conclusions and it's called proboscis policy from Sarajevo, don't people. So, what we're saying is that the situation is much more serious than we want to simplify, if we're ready today, we're going to have a club to propose conclusions, your relationship to the conclusions will be also a relationship to the general situation, as well as ours. And if the goal today was just to sit down and send a message here for the people's home, we didn't actually do anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2941	Thank you. Replica, colleague Jusufović.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2942	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow, Mr. Špirić very skillfully cites the water to his mill, and when you listen like this, not going into the depths, there is nothing to refuse or add. However, fellow Špirić has yet to accept, You are also a university professor, You are sitting in place, experienced to the end, I respect your experience, and have you ever heard anywhere in the world that the decisions of the Constitutional Court are being commented on, and you here suggest more to them, that here at the House, that they be maltene them, uh, the decision of the Constitutional Court which, I suppose you were thinking of this last, perhaps even some others, because we often hear very unargumented, because I pulled the analysis and should look at it. I won't mention who's saying it, you know it very well, lately, that it's constantly being declared that two Muslims, two Muslims and several foreigners are constantly reputing two nations. See how many votes there are, look, so it's not true. Secondly, it's incomprehensible to comment on the Constitutional Court decisions, at least that's the basic rule of someone and we can't talk about it, and now you're proposing that we, uh, end them. My colleague Čović, who referred to the cases, I know by many circumstances, these are 21 all things that are internal affairs, which are the authority's authority... must sit down and speak independently of what anyone thought of them, whether this political party understands or.... If, although I'm 14, if you could extend me 15 seconds, I didn't mean the consistency of anything today. However, lately very maliciously mentioned from the order of some political parties as someone invented the constitutionality of BiH, recently, here, today I read several portals, I call them pro-regime in terms of how they are treated here, depends again on how anyone looks on, how the constitution is invented by Fahrudin Radončić, Čović, and I don't know who else. Please read the Constitution, and read the Dayton Agreement, so in the end the Constitutional Court's decision, I am calling again, since 2000, the appeal was Mr. Alija Izetbegović and speaks of constitutionality. Therefore, meaning malice has always and on every side to show up something and to run away from certain things, but we will come to this, I just wanted to put you here, there are many things for dialogue, absolutely never going to lose anything with dialogue, but only a question formally about the decisions of the Constitutional Court. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2943	A kolega Špirić, a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2944	Well, to be clear, I normally make sure I don't comment on decisions, I didn't comment on this decision either, but what my discussion was about was a solution, not commenting on the Constitutional Court's decision. It is rare,... there is not one that has a constitutional court of the type of the Constitutional Court of BiH, but what we will do is, such a situation is what it is, but what I wanted to say is a call for dialogue. To all sit down, entity governments, Brcko District, to come up with a solution that can be implemented by one member of the law. It's not against the Constitutional Court's decision, no, I'm talking about how we can solve the problem for everyone to be satisfied, not to... sleep without creating political tensions and there's no solution. That's what I think about that decision and I think we can handle it. I remember when I was chairman of the Council of Ministers, here I happen to see the former Prime Minister of the Federation, then Milorad Dodik was the Prime Minister of Republika Srpska, and then I was a witness, and the Brcko District, reached an agreement on military property. I know there's a huge mistrust inside BiH, I'm sorry it's like that. Bošnjak increasingly trust foreigners more than they trust the Srbin and Hrvat they want to live with. The agreement is broken in a few days, and there will be a time when it will be written about it. Why? I do not accuse the Bošnjak, therefore, of an agreement signed, and I think that everything in this country must rest on the internal agreement and on dialogue. If the International Community imposed a solution that corresponds only to Srbin in this country, believe it would be against it. So, if we're going to live together, I guess we're going to help each other by understanding. If something irritates someone, so let's say it freely. People have to open a dialogue for 25, 26 years, I know Bosniak frustrations, I'm aware of that, but no one has ever invited me to talk about these frustrations, and I'm the longest in the BiH authorities. Guys, until these halls are full here and we're talking about all these issues, I'm telling you... that I'm right at all, I don't want to convince you. We cannot have a conversation in BiH, we cannot turn our backs on each other, we must listen to each other and we must accept the international community's good services, good services. If we've had good services for 26 years and sent us a message that we can't go any further, so give us a little worse services but we're still moving. Thank you very much. 22 Chairman Čović, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2945	Well, maybe it's not the right name for this all together, but it fits in on business, so I'll take one 20 seconds just for what you gave me as a thought when you talked about the constituent peoples of my colleague Jusufović. So the BiH Constitutional Court states by saying that the constitutionality of the umbrella is the constitutional category in BiH and about it with very clear explanations on how to ensure what a large part of the probossa policy today makes fun of the legitimate representation of the constituent peoples in BiH. So these are the expressions used precisely by those who were giving answers to the questions asked whether something in Bosnia and Herzegovina is in line with the BiH Constitution, and this is not a replica to you, so I just used this act to make it very clear to those who listen because it is often executed, unconscious as the patriots of the BiH collapse, to break BiH, to break its fundamental foundation, so I said the constitutional... and constitutional patriotism could help us preserve BiH, but that we will need a real conversation and... all those mechanisms of agreeing on key issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2946	I thank my colleague, Čović. The word was for Lidija Bradara. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2947	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all. Well, here's the thing, listening to all the debates of all of us today on these topics or, here's the subject that, here's the thing that our colleagues have imposed on us in some way, we have been able to hold these sessions more frequently with the fact that I don't agree that so many articles of the Rules of Procedure have been broken, I've made an effort while I've been waiting for my time, even two articles of the Rules of Procedure, and the rest of them sound nice. What I'm trying to say and what I'm getting from this debate about the Constitutional Court is what I've been taught because I'm not a lawyer, that the Constitutional Court, by its definition, is a corrective legislative and executive authority, and that would be a perfect definition, and we all know that this Constitutional Court reflects the will and reflects the national composition of the population. And this is being discussed and I think that the Bosnian Herzegovina Society will one day be ready to have a Constitutional Court by measure and to have the law on the Constitutional Court and that the Constitutional Court becomes the constitutional category of the Constitution that we are going to bring here. In these 26 years of the Dayton Peace Agreement, we have heard many things today, we have had various periods, various Council of Ministers' compositions, various Council of Ministers chairmans, various parliamentary majoritys, federal more or less successful governments, so we have had phases of faster progress, phases of stagnation, and it has always depended on the way we treated each other, and now unfortunately we have the result of a deep institutional political crisis in which BiH is at stake and this poses a huge danger. And I think that all those who feel that dialogue has no alternative, which we talked about today, and if they are honest in that sense, they are aware that this dialogue must be discussed and that I am sure, in a way that we listen to each other, 23 certainly brings certain solutions although here, 26 years after Dejton, the fact and the need for individuals to constantly call on some foreign interventions, some foreign solutions. I think that we are very ready to make a solution that will be for BiH, a solution that will bring about a more functional, normal, more manageable BiH, BiH facing itself, but also a future in the European Union in which all the peoples will again, and I will say a little later, feel like myself on their own. I'm afraid that what we're listening to and I hope that what we've been listening to these days, reading through portals, watching, listening to messages from which our children and even in some way our grandchildren can be concerned is just one political spin that needs to be, here, enlisted in some political public. I think it's clear to me how the College works and that we are this session, and thank the Presidency, so you called the session according to the Rules of Procedure in a way that we talk and that there are no such tones today that we obviously have heard in other media these days. Also, I think we should ultimately propose conclusions on, in terms of this debate. We have important questions ahead, the end of the year is near. We expect, we are expected to meet our 14 priorities. Some of us have brought to an end, however, the key issue, the Electoral Law, there are some questions in BiH that we need to work out, but what my experience has shown so far, when a political agreement is reached, when we have enough hearing and desire to talk for hours, for days, that the decisions that are made in this way are quite quickly realised, and I think that this will be the case this time because I think we don't have time to wait. And what fascinated me like this, I've been listening for years, and here we are today, so it's just that in the end I'm going to hear for years that the peoples are not citizens and that some people are supernatural, and that some citizens are super-citizens, so that in BiH we have enough opportunities and enough ways where citizens choose us, but there are also some positions and there are places where the peoples are very, very well, envisaged to represent the constituent peoples or those who make up the essence of BiH again, repeating that all the peoples of this country or the people of this country might be better off having that definition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2948	Thank you. Comrade Bosić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2949	Thank you, Chairman. I'm surprised by this session for several reasons. I'd say other people were surprised by her time, and also by the way she was called. I suppose some are surprised that the delegates from Republika Srpska came. I can see that the tone of the session is such that most people talk under the hand, so I don't think this session is going to bring anything. All these discussions were debates that could be expected from any discussion in perhaps even a little more extreme form than it was today and here it's not about the essence. This is about, it's not about this moment, it's about the process. This is a process that happens not to Inc's decision, this is a process that's been going on for 15 years. This is something that goes to one point that we all see about, but we don't want to accept that that's it. And this crisis will not be solved today, and as far as I can see, it won't be solved 24 in due time, and so we should think more carefully about what's going to happen here, what's expected to happen in this area in 10 years' time. A well-intentioned politician should, and we all think that we are well-intentioned and, I suppose, all parties claim to work in the interests of the people, should say what these policies are that will bring to our people, our voters something better, a better life, a better future, a better perspective, something that will leave to children, which we will leave to children. It is evident that these policies that are being led here, meaning I do not refer to anyone, to anyone, to any party individually, these policies are not policies that think about it, so this is not the pro-prudential policy in BiH. In BiH, we revolve around old stereotypes. We're all buried in our trenches 10 years ago. I don't see it moving on any side in the positive direction of this situation, and it would be much more useful if we had found a way to talk about the authorities, how to better give these citizens a favor at this critical time, and a critical time, as far as the economy is coming, although no one is talking about it. We're talking about these topics that we obviously won't be able to agree on. The process has led to the establishment of policies and citizens expecting parties to run such a policy to give them votes. It's not the citizens' fault, it's the politicians who, for their own sake of interest, were scolding animosities and fears that they could control their flow, so that they could call their voters and their nation to introduce themselves to the state of only being their followers. And let me tell you, it's not just what Mr. Čović told the Hrvat that one party has so much support, there are precisely dominant political directions here and based not on any political programme other than the policy of endangerment on the other. I'm not criticizing it, obviously there's a problem and there's a sense of danger here and there are unresolved problems that no one can see. We won't see each other's problems. We all see our problem, nobody here as much as I am, and you correct me maybe I didn't listen carefully enough, nobody said – you really have that problem, you on the other side, so let's see if we can or won't say it. So, it's not working, this session isn't gonna do any good. What's the way out? So you can only solve the problem and crisis in a few ways, any crisis, me now. So, you can, those who can make decisions, and unfortunately in BiH, it's down to two or three people, to three people, to sit down and agree on how to overcome this, but also if they agree for sure it won't change the basic policy lines, we'll have a new crisis within three months, just on something else. If a dialogue can't solve a crisis, it will be solved by force in any way and it is true that there are people who think that someone else will solve the crisis for them and by force and so if you, if I think someone will solve the crisis by force, and why should I negotiate? So we need to see if we have any good will to move things off the dead end. I don't see that good will right now. I'm not a factor, nor is my party in a situation where there's something more important to affect these processes that are happening, but maybe that's why I see this whole situation with different eyes and I'm trying to get out of this whole thing to see what it is that could change, and I have to say, unfortunately, I see little that can change. So someone, not one man enough to say -- that really this is going to take us down, this is going to have to say a few factors, and that seems to be very difficult to expect. And finally, to say that I'm really worried that we've become already visible, we've become a polygon where big world forces are proven, trenches or big countries' roles in this, in this crisis here, and we're all as far as I can see in this House people who have a good experience and remember well those processes that went back in '90. And we all know what it means when big guys play over little ones, and we're here, and I think we're much smaller than we think. Thank you. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2950	Thank you. Replica, colleague of Bradar.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2951	Well, here, I thought I'd wait till the end, but as you say, while you're discussing here, we won't bring anything new, that the big ones are playing with us small and all, and as my contribution to that, that's how I would suggest conclusions for today's House session and try to vote the conclusions and send our message, here's why we're gathered today, and in what direction we should do this, we should get out of today's session. 1. We call for the hasty harmonisation of the electoral models based on the signed Political Agreement on the Principles of Amendments and Supplements of the Election Law of BiH since 17 June 2020 to ensure the legitimate representation of the constituent peoples of the BiH Presidency and the homes of the people, and to remove all forms of inequalities and discrimination identified, and in accordance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court of BiH No U-23/14 since 2014, and the European Court of Human Rights rulings which are still awaiting their execution; 2. The Central Election Commission is not a legislative body, nor has it the right to make decisions under the authority of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. The Central Election Commission has not been elected and appointed in accordance with the provisions of the BiH Election Law. We ask that the members of the Central Election Commission be elected and named as the basis for a public tender in accordance with the procedures prescribed by the BiH Election Law; 3. We call on all political actors to have a permanent dialogue in order to urgently meet the preconditions for regular and smooth functioning, and to meet the obligations both under the BiH Council of Ministers' authority and from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2952	Thank you. Next debate, now we have a replica, colleague Miletić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2953	Thank you very much. I'll try to be brief, just to look at Mr. Bosić's exposure, but here, so we can call him that the correction of the wrong quote means 98% of what the gentleman said I agree, but I can't agree with one fact, and that's that today what we're doing is that this session won't be... I, here, and on the other hand to refer to what Mr Špirić was saying, I am really trying to understand that as representatives of all three people, if you will and the citizens of BiH, of course we experience some things in our society that are frustrating and we do not feel the fear of each other. I still think that the only way, again in the context of what Mr. Bosić was saying, is not that we are closer, we are prevented by members or 26 individuals from the International Community, we need to be in the way of each other and we need to sit down and talk about these problems. And that is the only direction we have in this troubled country because Mr. Bosić, and there is partly right, says – we do not have a chance to talk about serious things, says in the context of the needs of our peoples and our citizens. And how are you going to get a chance to talk about the pandemic, about 12 and a half thousand dead or dead, and that we're the third country in the world, who are you going to tell when institutions don't work, so it's not the Council of Ministers, it doesn't work one, it doesn't work another home? To whom you will tell of the gentleman... some of you have sat with him, man offers a billion and a half euros to build travel communications if we make any progress. So who are we, who gives us the right to say we won't do it? Is this money, we prevent him from reaching the citizens of this country, not talking about the economy, agriculture, thousands of other problems we have in this country, and I think there are a lot more pressing problems than these individuals we deal with. To conclude, and also to say, I think that all these frustrations or fears have only one way, but indeed, Mr Špirić, I think that this way or this methodology that you have chosen, I think that it is not good and that we are just creating a contradiction, that we are even more afraid of the citizens of BiH and what Mr Bosić is saying, perhaps in that sense that this negative energy that is created throughout society, that we will be even more burdened with other problems than this real one that we need to talk about. So anyway, I am in favor of having every problem in any way we're talking about, but not insulting other people. For example, Mr. President, so Mr. Komšić is not a Bosniak member of the presidency, I am not his lawyer. He has 1001 flaws, so he is a representative of the Croatian people and has been elected from the order of the Croatian people. The way he's chosen, it's another question, whose policies he supports, and that's another question, and if that's wrong, it means this is the place and the House of Representatives where it is discussed, where we need to find a solution that all the peoples and all the citizens in this country should be satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2954	My kolegica, Pendeš, is correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2955	Thank you. I don't agree with my colleague Miletić at two points each. First, that Mr. Komšić is a representative of the Croatian people because he was elected with Bosniak votes and received more votes than Mr. Džaferović. Secondly, I disagree that we deal with less important issues when we talk about constitutionality and legality, that is the previous question. The issue of stability and political, meaning security, is the resolution of this electoral law, constitutionality and legality. In order to have a stable and secure environment, this is the previous issue that needs to be resolved, which is the basis for investment, investment and economic development, and in this sense I just wanted to express my disagreement with those two thesis.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2956	It's a debate. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2957	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Of course, it's not a very happy circumstance when at the end or at the end you're talking about such an important subject, and you would agree with those who say that for the first time maybe this is in the BiH Parliament or at least the one I attended, and Bog has long spoken to me, truth in gloves, but a moderate and completely different tone than we in the House of Nations have spoken at the tenth session. If you were convinced that we don't all know who we are sitting here about what's going on in BiH and why this is happening, it would be much easier for me. But I am convinced that all of you and I are with you, and others know why all of this has happened and what is the situation in BiH. I'm afraid that it's only obvious that it's difficult for all of us, therefore, not only for those of us sitting here to face reality in BiH, and it seems to me that it's much more difficult than it seems to us, much more complicated, much more complicated with many challenges and political, but also safe and I'm not sure that we all understand it very well. I am deeply convinced that... the many domestic representatives that we have had the opportunity to listen to, some to meet, with some to talk, are aware of it, but not domestic. ... very many of those foreign people who are not aware of the situation in BiH, I am concerned. Are we really ready to have a dialogue? BiH has unfortunately been deprived of dialogue from the very beginning on every issue. Where we had the power, the strength to conduct the dialogue, we reached some questions and settled some questions, I'd say, quite successfully. Here, I don't want to list the complex questions that were, and there were, there were a lot of them in BiH. There is one question here whether and who in BiH wants a rule of law? How much? Now we're all going to say there's nobody here, there's nobody here, and whoever you're looking at right now, everyone's going to say yes, the rule of law. We are far from the real rule of law absolutely, but we are far from willing to work on the creation of a rule of law in every segment of BiH's action. I don't want to list any of your cases as we haven't or as long as we are. Today, you see, in BiH, it is forbidden to talk about the prosecution, it is forbidden to talk about the judiciary, about the police not to speak, about the OSA at all, and about every other institution in BiH is forbidden, and about this Parliament to talk and to speak openly, to see what the problems of the institution are, to solve, to move forward. So, about the decisions of the courts, you see what it means to prohibit saying that you disagree with the decision of one of the courts? What does that mean, so find me one who was condemned, who said yes, that I did it, and that this judgment is excellent, and thank him very much for condemning me. Well, it's... it's like every free-thinking man was a lawyer or not, about something. I think it's inadmissible. And that... even the ones who created this judiciary, who contributed most to it being the way it is. But we're talking about the decisions of the Constitutional Court and the property, I'm just going to let you know, I don't know who else to remind here when the law on the basis of the Agreement, signed by the prime ministers, on the basis of the BiH-level law, was in line to the final point. I was one of the participants and colleagues and was Mrs. Pendeš, there was Mr. Bariša, not here today, until the last point we agreed him, and the whole team, therefore, and representatives of the Bosniak and Serbian and Croatian people finished the job. And you know what happened, at half the night, that I don't speak any name now, was called by a representative of one of the Bosniak people who called me after that and told us urgently to see each other in the morning, that this law couldn't go any further, so to strangers. We are talking and arguing about property today, if we had then agreed on it in this House, it could have been and would have been adopted then. So it's the truth about the property law. Today he's an object of many things, and I don't want to talk at all about the Constitutional Court and anything else. 28 It is not a problem that has arisen in BiH since yesterday, it seems to me that Mr. Bosić has also spoken of it, so these are issues since BiH began. From Dejton to this day, therefore, all authorities, all who were both government and opposition, we all changed in many ways, someone louder than less talked about this problem. He didn't manage to solve it, but come on, why, there's no dialogue, there's no conversation, all these questions, I don't know if they're for this level of conversation, maybe they're for some lower level, five, ten, or I don't know how many people, but in institutions they certainly are to talk about them and say what they agree with or disagree with, even if those questions were difficult, so we can't say that we delegates aren't in charge of that. I... still... that the question that you and Mr. Bećirović said about the solemn oath, there's nothing controversial about it, but we're going to think each and every one of us in our own way whether it's the same grade as you or I are, but let's talk. If we are... that we are in something unequal or if we believe that the Dayton Agreement is not implemented in the spirit of the Dayton Agreement, and not as some say it, not by letter, but by spirit, therefore, there are some who say it. But to impose the law after 26 years regardless of the content of this law, I think it is a humiliation to all of us sitting in this Parliament, and to the Representative and to this House, absolute humiliation, because the House of Representatives is elected, MPs, directly, we indirectly, it means nothing to be asked. If that's the case, then let's see that we have other solutions, as Mr Špirić would say, give us something worse, it might be better for us. I don't know what law it is, or regulation regulated that laws can be imposed, where does it stand? It's not going to say anywhere that the law can be imposed or that I may not have read it. So we need to make sure that the peoples here in BiH as constitutional and the others are all satisfied. It's not good if one or two, I don't know, people say they're not happy with something. We representatives of the Serbian people propose several conclusions in this House and allow me to read these conclusions: 1. The reason for the failure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is the lawless decision of High Representative Valentina Incka, who tried to impose amendments and additions to the BiH Criminal Law, which he had no right. The power to impose laws by the High Representative as an unselected stranger does not exist in the Dayton Agreement and Annex X as the only annex that clearly determines the tasks of the High Representative. 2. It is necessary that those who have made the last decision of Valentin Inck, the same and the same. The BiH Council of Ministers should propose, as soon as possible, a way to determine and demonstrate relations with war crimes committed and their treatment in public, given that civil war or “traditional conflict in the region” was waged in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as defined by the Dayton Agreement. 3. The home of the people finds that there is no high representative as a representative of the party signatories of Annex X, because Kristijan Šmit has not confirmed the Security Council of the United Nations. 4. The home of the people of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly finds that the BiH Constitutional Court, coming out of its jurisdiction and against the constitutional decree that Bosnia and Herzegovina continues its legal existence towards international law as a state, but with the internal system amended as provided for in this Constitution, makes decisions contrary to the BiH Constitution when it comes to state property. 29 The Constitution of BiH in Article III point 3.a) regulates that “all government functions and powers which are not explicitly assigned in this Constitution to the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina belong to entities”. 5. The people's home finds that the BiH Constitution has not explicitly given the state union of Bosnia and Herzegovina the right to property, nor the authority to regulate ownership of state property, so it is necessary to resolve the issue by agreement between the two entities, the canton/countries of the Federation of BiH, as well as the Brcko District, which is jointly owned (condominium) by the Republika Srpska and the Federation of BiH. Six. The people's home supports the Republika Srpska National Assembly's initiative for talks and dialogue between the Republika Srpska and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as three constituent peoples -- Srbin, Hrvat and Bošnjak on possible solutions for Bosnia and Herzegovina, and calls for a comprehensive dialogue on the current situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina and possible solutions related to the future of the Republika Srpska and the Federation of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2958	Replica, a colleague of Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2959	I would first like to make a suggestion at the end of this or at the end of this debate to you, Mr. Chairman and Vice-Presidents, that in the coming period you have consistently taken care of the application of the Rules of Procedure and that you allow the exercise of not only the rights, but also the duties of elected delegates. This is a suggestion to all members of the College and it is principled and legal. In other words, this session cannot solve all the problems, temptations and dangers we face together in this country, but there is still one positive message from today's session. This positive message is that there is, however, a willingness to return to institutional frameworks, and you all are very well aware that the actions of both institutions and non-institutional action are two different sexes. Next thing I know, I haven't heard anyone say it's against dialogue today, and that's a good thing. And when we talk about dialogue, I believe that we will agree that we should lead the dialogue in the competent authorities where we are elected and on the issues for which we are responsible. I hope that no one has this kind of illusion that it is possible to conduct a dialogue on political independence, sovereignty, territorial integrity and the international legal subjectivity of BiH. Who would agree to this dialogue would agree to an anti-constitutional and anti-Dayton action. We in this country all together have all the natural and economic resources to build Balkan Switzerland. The alternative to Balkan Switzerland is to build Liban in these areas. I believe no one wants to go that way. What do we need to be the key thing for a step in BiH? No one talked about it today, and I'm afraid we won't be making any serious steps without it. What's that thing? I will define it in the next way, in this country it is necessary to build a completely new political culture. The current political culture of subjection cannot result in anything good. Now to do a survey of 30 people in this country, among all the nations, and ask how they experience the word compromise 99% would be negatively declared. In this country, everyone thinks compromise is a bad thing, it's a political atmosphere. And if we don't systematically create a new political culture in this country, there won't be any representatives who will make any political compromises. At the table or in the College now Čović, Špirić, Izetbegović, bring whoever you want for them, it will be the same again if we don't do something about this. The next thing I want to say is that today makes sense only those conclusions that we can all gather together to pronounce. Any other conclusions where one club or a third of the people's home won't support them don't make any sense and you all know it very well. Where's our way out? Our exit is in respect of the Dayton Peace Agreement, the Constitution and other legal acts, and we respect it in principle. If we respect the Dayton Peace Nović, then we will not say that it was a civil war, but we will say that there was a tragic conflict in the region. The difference between those two concepts as the North and the South Pole, not nearly the same. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I only call on you and yourself and everything else, stick to what it says – a tragic conflict in the region.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2961	Two minutes and 40 seconds you've broken through.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2962	I can hang up now, but here, and you've been, say, three minutes longer talking, I'm almost done, so if you have...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2963	You could have taken the debate, 10 minutes, you took the replica. Okay, come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2964	As an organizer, I'd like to finish two more sentences. The second is related to OHR, OHR is the people of Annex X to the Dayton Peace Agreement. When you ask yourself where the rights come from, here I will now read to you: Article 2. b) the jurisdiction of the High Representative, says, quote – to facilitate how the High Representative deems it necessary to resolve any difficulties arising from implementation. Or, say, Article 5. – the High Representative is the final body on the ground related to the interpretation of the agreement. _________(?) 31 [[no microphone turned on]] It's all clear. And the back thing I want to say about it is state property. And we have to solve this issue in BiH, but believe me, no one should be engrossed by the idea that it is more possible to do this than the Constitutional Court of BiH's decision. The Constitutional Court's decision, I assume you agree, is final and binding and based on the Constitutional Court's decision that said here in Parliament that we should resolve this issue, we should do so.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2966	Now we have two replicas, first colleague Jusufović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2967	Thank you very much. And I'm in line with those who think that this is useful today that we've sat down regardless of what this debate is going to bring out today, at least we've opened up a lot of questions and I think about getting into a new way, as we say, of trying to resolve all these misunderstandings. Here today, in the debate, it was pointed out that the two nations were dissatisfied, it seems to me that fellow Špirić, later continued many, not exactly that the thesis, is true the thesis that all three peoples are dissatisfied, but everyone from their perspective is looking. This, not to explain, is what Mr. Čović said to the Croatian people for majorisation, least of all, etc. Bosniak for fear of Serbian hegemony, etc. etc. For other reasons, the Serbian people are influenced by the international community, high representatives, decisions, etc. Everyone from their point of view probably has their reasons... As far as we're concerned, we should do the following, which team, which group, I don't know who that would be, but from all the peoples and citizens to make a catalogue of differences, dissatisfaction, one, the other, the third and the fourth, and then go to a resolution on what internal issues are, what can domestic authorities do, what are they international and go from easier to harder. It's a new direction, a review, but if we run to and what we're talking about, then we'll never solve anything. And today, of these conclusions, I think there are different approaches in all these conclusions. In my opinion, and that's why I suggest that today be adopted, my colleague Bradara suggested conclusions and point three, I think that this conclusion implies all of what about our sublimation is what, uh, should be done in the future. I think it would make sense to adopt it, and each of these individual others can hardly get any majority and satisfaction. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2968	The next replica or correction of the wrong quote, colleague Pendeš.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2969	Thank you. It is more a commentary on the word compromise, which Mr., er, the esteemed colleague sees as a solution, if I consider that the Hrvat have made compromises since the beginning of BiH, so we have made compromises by going to the referendum on February 29th and March 01st, so we are going to enter Herceg-Bosna-Bosnia into Dayton, and by supporting the Reform Agenda, and we are constantly making compromises, and so now I expect a consensus on key issues, and a key question of legitimacy through the Election Law.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2970	Replica co-worker Lazar Prodanović. Here you go. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2971	Gentlemen chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Without a doubt, listening to all these other discussions at the end of this overall debate is quite evident and we are all clearly in the deepest crisis of the Dayton Agreement. A deeper crisis than that is a failure to talk, dialogue, compromise and come to a common solution on the minimum of common interests when it comes to the future of all in BiH. What I heard today, and I am particularly pleased with all the delegates' willingness to listen to each other and I have the impression of understanding about what they have been growing in BiH for years. The minimum of this story, which was started today, which was cooked by those who, in a certain sense, hold BiH as a captive state, creating in an underdeveloped democracy and a state with an inadequate, or incomplete rule of law, an additional crisis that challenges its future. We must not look forward to such decisions if they are of temporary benefit to someone, in the long run they will do the most damage. What we could work on and what we would all be fundamentally agreed on is impossible to support anyone in, therefore, in any sense imposing any legal act in this country when we have the most legislative body. If it takes ten years, ten years to settle some questions, we need to step by step. In parallel with these issues that we have a consensus or compromise to be reached, we need to have two sides of the crisis, and I don't think it's a solution, that, in parallel with that, we need to solve other issues and come up with a solution that would be acceptable. It is unnecessary that we have, we must understand ourselves, I think we have too many mutual fears and Bošnjak, and Srbin, and Hrvat, and they are all here, and I agree completely with distinguished colleague Jusufović, that everyone is in a certain degree, uh, unsatisfactory, but it can't be a pleasure that everyone gets everything and no one else, in that sense we have to do more together to come to a solution that would be the future and perspective of this country. Also, this overall isolation in BiH, regardless of all readiness for an internal compromise or consensus, will continue to keep BiH in a state of insecurity, instability and no perspective, resulting in what must concern all of us by leaving thousands of BiH citizens, and thus politics will lose its meaning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2972	Thank you. A colleague of Bradara's debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2973	I'd like a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2974	If we don't have a hearing first, then behind that, uh, we'll make a statement about...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2975	That's fine, after the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2976	Is there any other need for any discussion, any replica, any correction to the wrong quote? No, I don't see any interest in her. Thank you. 33 This concludes the debate. Now, here you are, on behalf of the Croatian Club, my colleague Bradar.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2977	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2978	Five-minute stand, please don't go out if we can get here, if five minutes is somehow combined. [[PAUZA]] First I'm going to ask you to take our seats so we can continue our work. My kolegica, Bradar, if you need to comment on the break.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2980	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2981	There isn't. Thank you very much. Then I suggest we go with the conclusion delivered by a colleague of Bradar as the one who was first placed. We have three points in that conclusion. We are willing to agree whether we will go individually each attitude, individually each attitude, and on one and the other conclusion. Then I suggest, I'll read slowly that, everyone... this on the bench. Proposal for a conclusion of the Croatian Club in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. First conclusion: 1. We call for the hasty harmonisation of the electoral models based on the signed Political Agreement on the principles of amendments and addition of the BiH Election Law in Mostar on 17 June 2020, in order to ensure the legitimate representation of the constituent peoples in the BiH presidency and the homes of the people, and to remove all forms of inequalities and discrimination identified, and in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court of BiH number U-23/14 and the European Court of Human Rights rulings that are still awaiting their execution. Please initiate voting procedure for this conclusion. Thank you very much. At present, it joined vote 11 – for 8, v 1, abstention 2. The Federation of BiH – 4 for, 1 against, 2 abstentions. Republika Srpska – 4 for, none against and abstention. We have a general and entity majority. I find this conclusion has passed. Let's go to another conclusion: 2. The Central Election Commission (SIP) is not a legislative body nor has the right to make decisions under the authority of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. The Central Election Commission has not been elected and appointed in accordance with the provisions of the BiH Election Law. We ask that members of the 34 Central Election Commission be elected and named as the basis of the Public Competition in accordance with the procedures and the prescribed election law of BiH. Please initiate voting procedure for this conclusion. Thank you very much. The vote went 11 to 7 against 3, abstention 1. Federation of BiH - 3 for, 3 against, 1 abstention. Republika Srpska – 4 for, none against and abstention. We have a general but we don't have an entity majority. We're going to agree on this conclusion in the next phase since we don't have a third member of the College. Third conclusion: 3. We call on all political actors to have a permanent dialogue in order to urgently meet the preconditions for regular and smooth functioning, and to meet the obligations both in the BiH Council of Ministers' jurisdiction and in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Please initiate voting procedure for this conclusion. Thank you very much. At present, i.e. joined vote 11 – for 10, v 1. abstentioned no one. The Federation of BiH – 6 for, 1 against, no one abstention. Republika Srpska – 4 for, none against and abstention. We have a general and entity majority. I find this conclusion has passed. ...the conclusion of the Serbian People's Club. First conclusion: 1. The reason for the failure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is the lawless decision of High Representative Valentina Incka, who tried to impose amendments and additions to the BiH Criminal Law, which he had no right. Please initiate voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2982	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2983	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but I'm going to ask you to cancel this running voting procedure. This conclusion has two parts, so this is the second: The power to impose laws by the High Representative, as an unselected stranger, does not exist in the Dayton Agreement and Annex X as the only annex that clearly determines the tasks of the High Representative. Now, I'm going to ask you to restart the voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attending 12, joined the vote, excuse me, 12 – for vote 8, against 4, abstentioned no one. The Federation of BiH – 3 for, 4 against, no one abstention. Republika Srpska – 5 for, no one against and abstention. We have a general but we don't have an entity majority. It means... to agree in the second round. 35 Part 2 of this total conclusion: 2. It is necessary that those who have made the last decision of Valentin Inck, the same and the same. The BiH Council of Ministers should propose, as soon as possible, a way to determine and demonstrate relations with war crimes committed and their treatment in public, given that civil war or “traditional conflict in the region” was waged in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as defined by the Dayton Agreement. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Of the 12 present who joined the vote – for 8, versus 4, abstentioned none. The Federation of BiH – 3 for, 4 against, no one abstention. Republika Srpska – 5 for, no one against and abstention. There is a general but there is no entity majority. We're going into further compliance. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The people's home finds that there is no high representative as a representative of the party party of the Anex X, because Kristijan Šmit has not confirmed the Security Council of the United Nations. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. From the 12 present – for 5, against 6, abstention 1. The Federation of BiH -- none by, 6 against, 1 abstention. Republika Srpska – 5 for, no one against and abstention. There's no general majority. This conclusion is not accepted. We're going to the fourth part of this conclusion: 4. The home of the people of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly finds that the BiH Constitutional Court, coming out of its jurisdiction and against the constitutional decree that Bosnia and Herzegovina continues its legal existence towards international law as a state, but with the internal system amended as provided for in this Constitution, makes decisions contrary to the BiH Constitution when it comes to state property. The Constitution of BiH in Article III point 3.a) regulates that “all government functions and powers which are not explicitly assigned in this Constitution to the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina belong to entities”. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. The vote joined 12 – for 8, against 4, abstentioned nothing. The Federation of BiH – 3 for, 4 against, abstention of no one. Republika Srpska – 5 for, no one against and abstention. We have a general but we don't have an entity majority. We're also going into further compliance. Part Five of the conclusion: 5. The people's home finds that the BiH Constitution has not explicitly given the state union of Bosnia and Herzegovina the right to property, nor the authority to regulate ownership of state property, so it is necessary to resolve the issue by agreement between the two entities, the canton/countries of the Federation of BiH, as well as the Brcko District, which is jointly owned (condominium) by the Republika Srpska and the Federation of BiH. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attending 12 – for 8, against 4, abstention nothing. The Federation of BiH – 3 for, 4 against, abstention of no one. Republika Srpska – 5 for, no one against, no one abstention. There is a general but there is no entity majority. 36 The same conclusion as the previous points, we go to further alignment. And the sixth, finally, conclusion of this second set: 6. The people's home supports the Republika Srpska National Assembly's initiative for talks and dialogue between the Republika Srpska and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as three constituent peoples -- Srbin, Hrvat and Bošnjak on possible solutions for Bosnia and Herzegovina, and calls for a comprehensive dialogue on the current situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina and possible solutions related to the future of the Republika Srpska and the Federation of BiH. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. The vote went 12 – for 8, against 3, abstention 1. Federation of BiH - 3 for, 3 against, abstention 1. Republika Srpska – 5 for, no one against and abstention. There is a general but there is no entity majority. I also find this conclusion to be agreed.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2984	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2985	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2986	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-11-29-0.u2987	Shall we vote again? At the request of Mr Jusufović, we will repeat this voting cycle. Of the 12 present – for 8, versus 4, no one abstention. The Federation of BiH – 3 for, 4 against, no one abstention. Republika Srpska – 5 for, no one against and abstention. We have a general, we don't have an entity majority. ...the conclusion that we're going further along here too. Here, that concludes our statement on these two conclusions. And now if we could underline that we finally have from the conclusion number one that was the conclusion of the Hrvat klub, the first conclusion was adopted and the third conclusion was adopted. The second conclusion goes to adoption. When it comes to the club in front of the Serb people, the first, second, fourth, fifth and sixth conclusions go further in line, and the third conclusion was neither entity nor general majority. We will further agree on a way to make a statement about this part. Dear colleagues, we have exhausted today's agenda and are finishing the 8th emergency session. We'll inform you of the date of the next session. Thank you very much. Session completed at 4:25 p.m.
