ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2134	Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow delegates, esteemed representatives of the Council of Ministers, respected media representatives warmly welcome you and open the 7th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The session is attended by 14 delegates – 5 of whom are from Bosniak people, 4 from Croatian and 5 from the Serbian people. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] Mr. Dragan Čović is absent from this session for recovered reasons. For the 7th emergency session, I suggest the next Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 6th emergency session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. Request of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Public Procurement by Emergency Procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, issue: 0l,02-02-1-489/21 of 26.02.2021; 3. Request of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices by Emergency Procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, issue: 01,02-02-1-498-2/221 of 26.02.2021. This is a harmonised agenda for the House of Peoples Colleges. Is anyone answering for a word, is there a proposal for changes and additions to the agenda? Mr. Bećirović reporting, please welcome Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2135	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the respected chairman of today's emergency session and the House of Peoples of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has been called for a dramatic situation in connection with the vaccination of citizens and citizens of BiH. We are the only non-vaccinated state, even the vaccines have been obtained by the poorest countries of Africa and Asia, and BiH has not done so. I warned of this black scenario here in the People's House in the middle of last year, and so last year I proposed two concrete laws that envisioned the establishment of the BiH Health Ministry. Unfortunately, everything I talked about and what I warned about and here at the House of Peoples session has come true, it is obvious that serious addresses in Europe and the world do not take seriously 13 unrelated and complicated health ministries in a BiH country. It's a very clear message that comes to us from Europe and the world, so I think it's high time to stop hiding here behind the corny 2 flossulas about the transfer of some responsibilities. BiH was, yes, it will forever be a state, and our task should protect people's health throughout that country, to allow people to have effective power that will be able to protect people's health. It is, therefore, a very serious topic, and that is why today, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, I propose that we move towards the establishment of the BiH Health Ministry. It's time to talk here about these serious issues. Why? We don't have a state health ministry, but that's why we have 13 unrelated health ministries, 13 ministries in one country prescribes different measures that are completely once diametrically different, people no longer know how to behave in certain parts of BiH, 13 ministries determine differently when there's a curfew somewhere, and when it's not, 13 ministries determine whether children go to school or not in certain parts of the country, so in one children they go to school, in another they don't go somewhere, 13 ministries sometimes prescribe whether people wear masks, so in one
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2136	Comrade Bećirović, you've run out of time, you've had three minutes to explain what you should now give in writing, please submit it in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2137	So, while respecting your suggestion, I had a lot more to add as an explanation of why this should be a part of the agenda, and now in line with the business provisions, I am delivering a proposal for a new agenda item, which reads: Consideration and adoption of the conclusion of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which is required by the BiH Council of Ministers to deliver, as soon as possible to the parliamentary procedure, the draft law on the completion of the BiH Council of Ministers and the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Ministry and other bodies of the administration with the aim of forming the BiH Ministry of Health. I submit this proposal as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure and in writing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2138	The proposal will be divided and distributed to the benches, yes, and I will now, in order to speed up this session, read and ask for your statement. So, counterpart Bećirović proposes in accordance with Article 61. The Rules of Procedure of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which reads: Consideration and adoption of the conclusion of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which requires the Council of Ministers of BiH to submit, as soon as possible, the draft law on the completion of the BiH Council of Ministers' Law and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Ministers and other bodies of the BiH administration with the aim of forming a Health Ministry. I'm putting, 3.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2139	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2140	Okay, we've still got Nikola Špirić on file for discussion. Here you go, Nikola.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2141	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow delegates, distinguished guests, but only apropo of this initiative by counterpart Denis Zvizdić, I think today he made a great contribution, so he made a great contribution to calling the initiative that came from the House of Representatives exactly as Denis Bećirović demands. It will be very interesting to see what kind of relationship this initiative will be with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2142	Correction of the wrong allegation, Mr. Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2143	I don't know what Mr. Špirić read or listened to, but my proposal is very clear, people suffer, there is much greater mortality than the pandemic in the BiH entity of the RS than in the Federation of BiH. We need the Ministry of Health, time has shown that 13 ministries cannot meet the needs, maybe the fourth wave of the pandemic awaits us, the world has sent us a message that it will not negotiate with institutions and countries that do not have a health ministry, and in such a situation I think it is time to break the destructive practice. My proposal is to put this item on the agenda, I have proposed exactly how the Rules of Procedure prescribes, I propose a concrete conclusion, and the Council of Ministers can deliver such proposals to us in the procedure and we can become like all other European countries. Remember as you were wrong six months ago, when you voted against this proposal, you'll make an even bigger mistake now. In six months, there will be a problem again, we need the health ministry, we need every man in BiH, this is the most serious question possible, so you can't just because of a corny flossula about the transfer of competence endangering human lives in BiH, BiH should look like all other countries, do not block it at least when it comes to protecting human health. So if it comes to jurisdiction, at least it's the state health ministry responsible for communicating with the world, that we're not experiencing what we're experiencing. My proposal is precise, clear, correct, I don't know what you fellow Špirić were talking about. I invite you to support this also because of Bošnjak and Srbin and Hrvat and others, because of every man in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2144	Nikola Špirić, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2145	I'm sorry, I won't answer again, because the question is clear and the answer will be clear. So, what I'm interested in, the pandemic is since March last year, a year, whether anyone in this country is going to ask a question of responsibility for non-compliance with the law and failure to perform their duties in a way that the laws prescribe. When we determine responsibility for the exercise of power then we can also analyse whether existing legal frameworks are enough to do so. So in a year hundreds of tenders could be opened and vaccines for all the BiH population, will anyone say who the responsible people are. So as possible, if the existing law has given the possibility to conclude an agreement with Kovaks, there is no health ministry spoken of by counterpart Bećirović, if it is possible to purchase directly with suppliers, and the law of Article 10 gives it to the right. I remember the basic accident, then I was the chairman of the Council of Ministers, when there were great floods, you know how much pressure it was to change the VAT law, to create destruction, and to provide a crime field of unprecedented proportions, and we endured, we didn't change that, there were great pressures. And so I ask today that we lead, I don't mind, of course, the initiative of my colleague Denis Bećirović, because I will have a clear view of it, but I don't think it helped us today, because it won't solve these challenges, because the ministry isn't being created in five minutes or an hour or for a session, and I'm afraid that neither this House of People session will vaccinate anyone in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2146	Mr. Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2147	Comrade Špirić, the situation in BiH is too serious, your party is part of the government, everything you propose today, and that it will help the citizens of BiH, I will support it. So, anything you suggest, and to be useful to people, unfortunately, you didn't suggest anything. And why do I suggest we move towards forming a health ministry? Look at the European Health Consumer Index, they published data and BiH in the last place in Europe. Why? The reason is, astoundingly a lack of data on health care. See how many health workers have gone from both entities to the west, only in one year have we lost 1100 people employed in the health system. Look how patients' rights are violated, not to mention that it's a shame that people in one country don't have equal health rights, that one of these rights has, the other don't. We should leave politics aside when it comes to human health, do everything we can to make an even efficient system, a system that will be able to be a serious address for the talks in Europe and the world, a system that will connect 13 divided inefficient ministries, a system that will be able to, and I support you there, to determine and the responsibility of those who do not work, is not at all controversial, but let us go in the right direction. It shows, here, from March last year to today that we simply don't have a system that can meet the needs. In the coming months, worse things can happen, everyone announces the fourth wave of the pandemic, they can't stop these 13 ministries effectively, and they can't organize these health systems, which is why I suggest it.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2148	Nikola Špirić, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2149	...but here, for a short while, I think a small country like BiH can't stand the vision of those who would like to compare it to America, to Britain, to France, to Austria, it's just desert desires and I think we should look in the mirror. The Federation set out without this law to obtain funds, right, respirator, as far as she came, did she need the law then? It's not. Am I against the fact that both houses of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly are building crime opportunities, and we will see how the agenda passes, I will also discuss this proposal by colleagues 5 Denis Bećirović, if there is a agenda point. Let people look into our eyes, let the Federation get vaccines for the complete BiH, let Republika Srpska get them, if it's a deal or a canton, but to get them, not to get them to create a pression that needs to change the laws to do so. People are going to allow us to move in accordance with the system that we have, the movement, that we are not standing, and I respect that the system is being built up and perfected, I have nothing against it, but it's not going to be that initiative that came today, perhaps at an unfortunate moment, to address these challenges. We have something that's a bigger challenge and let's see how that's possible, but I think we need to establish responsibility for the delay for a year, and let someone tell me, here's the Council of Ministers, the President, anyone else -- where, what was the legal regulations that prevented it from doing so, so, what prevented the acquisition of three million vaccines? If it wasn't, if the law allowed it to be done, why now we're building up the possibility of an exception, and the law has already created that possibility in Article 10 and I'm not going in, so that's when we get to the law. Exactly, when it comes to security, health security, let's say, the question is, who wants to read the law,
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2150	Uh,
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2151	Thank you very much, I won't do it anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2152	You already have, you've already broken time. Thank you. ... reported. [[no microphone turned on]] We are voting on the agenda table proposed by my colleague Bećirović, I read you the contents. Let's make it possible to vote. Who's to put this point on number four? So two, four, six, seven, against. 2, 4, 6 – for. We don't have an entity majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2153	There's no general majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2154	No general majority, no entity majority. So the proposal was rejected. Since there is no vote on the agenda, the agenda has been adopted. 6 Let’s go with item number one agenda, which is, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 6th emergency session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Niko one's answering for a word. So we are voting on the minutes of the 6th emergency session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Make it possible to vote, please. So we only have one abstention, everyone else is in. So the adoption of the minutes is complete, we adopted the minutes from the previous session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Thank you. Let's go to point two, Ad. 2. Request of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Public Procurement by Emergency Procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, issue: 0l,02-02-1-489/21 of 26.02.2021
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2157	Authorization of the House of Representatives. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2158	We'll see. Mr. Osmanović, are you authorized by the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2159	So I'm told to come, now, we've sent a conclusion out of this.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2160	...in the House of Representatives, and when the House of Representatives adopts, then someone from the College has to explain it here. I'm sorry, that's the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2161	So if you have, Mr. Osmanović, 7
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2162	It may be on behalf of the party in the House of Representatives, and here if the House of Representatives has passed, the leadership must.... I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2163	Okay. So, here was Mr. Osmanović's goodwill, who was the promoter in front of the SDA MPs' club in the House of Representatives, but since he has no special authority from the House of Representatives, we will stick to the procedure and we will go without any consideration by the legislator. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? I don't, you can tell me, okay. Mr. Bećirović, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2164	Well, I've answered to help, and I think before deciding in the House of Nations it would be useful to hear from a colleague from the House of Representatives. There's no need to train strictness and now because of some formal things, we don't allow a man to tell what he has to do with these laws. It is a very sensitive moment, and it is an important topic and do not selectively interpret the Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations. According to the same Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, the House of Nations should be held once a month, so it did not take place once a month, according to this same Rules of Procedure, in 2019 and 2020, one joint session of both homes was to be held, so no one got up there and said, now we are in violation of the Rules of Procedure. So I ask that we be more flexible at this point and that fellow Osmanović has the opportunity to expose and thank him when he has already come to the House of Representatives, to hear this information, it will certainly not be harmful for us when we make the final decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2165	Mr. Zlatko Miletić, the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2166	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Although I had needs on this previous one, whether or not an additional part of the agenda to appear in the context of correcting some false allegations, here I will really try to touch some of the things that are very important, and to solve these points of the agenda and these next ones. Let me, first of all, welcome you all warmly, see that the Council of Ministers has no one present at the moment, that is just another proof of how much this issue interests us in BiH, and how we help the citizens of this country. I must agree with Mr Špirić's discussion in this sense, that we will not change the situation in this country until the facts of who is responsible for what, among other things, about immunisation or if you want the vaccination of the BiH population are simply determined. But, Mr. Špirić, let me remind you, you're the co-chair, since I suggested that 8 of us discuss this issue on two occasions, I'll read it to you, so there are no misunderstandings. So, for the first time in the 14th session of the House of Peoples 12.01. I asked you to talk about it, given the fact, I will show you the act, that the day before in Doboj was a meeting of our National Medicines Agency with all the representatives of the entity health ministries, I will read you one of the conclusions that they have made. It is said in this conclusion that there are limited factors in the existing Law on Public Procurement of BiH that prevent the rapid acquisition of vaccines for COVID-19 and consumable materials, as well as equipment for the cold chain, for health countermeasures, for the needs of the BiH population, and that the emergency situation of the pandemic is not sufficiently recognised, and it is proposed to make changes to the law in this respect. At this session on 12.01, I asked you to discuss this matter, to consider two options. First, is it possible for our Public Procurement Agency, the Medicines Agency, to make a special act, a decision, a solution, which will make an exception that vaccines can actually be obtained directly, i.e. that contracting parties may in that case be, whether, entities, Brcko District and cantons, that they can obtain the purchase directly. What is our responsibility, your responsibility, and mine, is that you didn't want to talk about it at all. So you didn't want to put that on the agenda. At the last session of 15.02, I asked you to put one of the points of the agenda back on, to talk about it again, to talk about Kovaks, to talk about this famous agreement, to talk about how and how vaccinations, or immunisation of the population, will be carried out. You voted me out again, and you didn't just let us talk about these questions. Now, when it comes to this whole process of two, three things to correct you and here's Mr. Bećirović. When we talked about these things, it's as much as we had in those few seconds or a few minutes to say a few things, firstly to correct you that the pandemic didn't start in the third month or March last year, by some scientific knowledge, and you'll be surprised, you'll find that scientists will find out that the pandemic started very early and much earlier than it first appeared, it was according to some official scientific data the first month of the year, which may mean, and there are some findings, that it may even have appeared in the sixth month of 2019 and the first time that virus appeared in Barcelona in the sewers, but since I don't deal with these things, obviously scientists, who are working on this issue, will persist in how and in what way it all appeared. The other thing, very important, is this Kovaks system and this famous agreement of ours. I cannot believe that we are all retarded here and that in this agreement, and I ask you to look at this agreement and you will see how much BiH citizens are actually destined for this vaccination or immunisation and then you will see that these quantities that have been ordered are completely insufficient for the needs of the BiH population. What does that mean? That this agreement itself will certainly not solve that question even if these vaccines were given today. Is it in any case for us to reach this degree of immunisation that is preferred by the World Health Organization, which is that we are about to vaccinate about 60% of the population, we must certainly enter that so-called. direct procurement, whether entities, cantons, states, I really don't know the answer to that question at the moment, and from where I voted for Mr Bećirović's initiative, even some of you here, and I think it was a good thing, since you from Republika Srpska, I respect that political position and you see it as a transfer of power, I even saw whether it was constitutionally possible for such a type of ministry to form a temporary character and that we have a ministry only while the pandemic is going on, but unfortunately our Constitution does not allow such a situation, and I will end the debate when it comes to the Ministry of Health. 9 When it comes to these very public procurements, I will certainly vote for one and one and the other additions, i.e. the amendments and the additions of the law, with that in order to really ask you, I will certainly take advantage of the opportunity that I have as an envoy when this joint session is 11/03, to all what I think I say about the work of the Council of Ministers, and you will see how and how, but what, in my opinion, indicatively, is that we return to this system of Kovaks and to two things, one of these happened this morning. I am not a fan of Aleksandar Vučić's politics, but indeed here I am thanking the Serbian President once again for the solidarity he is personally and the Republic of Serbia, which this morning has shown to the citizens of BiH and I hope that this kind of readiness will show some and unresolved issues that we have between BiH and Serbia. But I think in the sense that I am talking about our BiH institutions, that we have brought ourselves into a humiliating position, including that we do not have mechanisms to help our citizens in the right way, taking into account and making such changes and supplementing the law. And one more thing, I'll end up on that, not wasting too much of your precious time. When it comes to this Kovaks system, it would be a good day to open up the question of this Kovaks a little bit, so let me explain some things to you, who is this man who's the CEO, who's the man who's the director of UNICEF, and see what the suspects are in their countries. The question arises as to how it is possible for people with impaired such integrity to do these jobs in the first place. Not to mention that in the last twenty years they have declared seven pandemics in the world, including this, none of them were based on scientific knowledge and none had met the conditions that 40% of the population was infected on the globe, that all continents were covered, that mortality was 12%, etc. That I don't bother you with these facts. When you take the ownership structure of this Kovaks and when you see that this new messiah, biti Gejts, that since 2009 he has funded the World Health Organization and that man has his share of four billion dollars, and that next to him, this organization is GAVI, you have seen if there is nothing on the stickers on these boxes, next to him that there is another CEPI organization, which is formed by pharmacological firms, then everything becomes clear to you as to how this goes and how it is possible that ten percent, ten countries in the world buy 95% vaccines, and that all the other countries in the rest of the world depend on this procurement, this is a special story for themselves, and I will certainly have a proposal for our Presidency and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in order for this issue in that top World Health organization to be distinguished. So, to finish, in any case, we've had twice the opportunity to deal with this issue, unfortunately since the first month, means since 12.01. when I proposed this to date, at least 600 BiH citizens have lost their lives, so gentlemen have to answer. Today we have over five thousand dead in BiH, not only for our citizens and for two and a half million citizens around the world, since all this about this virus, about its creation, as it has appeared, as people protect themselves from it, there are a lot of problems here, a lot of disagreements and a lot of controversial things, but hopefully by adopting these two proposals of the law, we will allow our institutions to wake up and not to order vaccines for this year, but to order for the next one how it works, let's say, Mr. Natanjahu, prime minister of Israel, who, unlike our prime minister, is seventeen times in the 12th month 2020...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2167	I'd like to ask you to finish. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2168	Here, I'll finish, I'll contact the chairman of the phaser group, he's called him on the phone 17 times, I don't think these guys have called anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2169	Correction of the wrong quote, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2170	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues, I'll just take a moment. What I was going to ask my colleague Miletić, since it was a personal address, I don't have the power to decide what the agenda would be, and you all know it, it's a decision, so, at home, whether I'm the chairman or a member of the College. So, the House declares itself on the agenda and would not like an individual to bear that burden, although I respect, of course, all the requirements that come to the agenda. Well, I agree with my colleague Bećirović, this Miletić, not his colleague Bećirović, so it is a mistake, so he refers to fellow Miletić, and I agree that it is time for institutions to wake up, so that is the only thing I agree with. But please, I would like someone from the institutions, the Council of Ministers, the Presidency, the governments of one, the other, the third, to explain to me today - why they are in accordance with Article 10. The law on public procurement cannot make purchases, and are all the purchases that have come outside the law? People do not have that answer, and in Article 10, I will remind you that it writes, so, but under b) – a public contract, so the exemption is possible, a public procurement contract whose enforcement requires special security measures in accordance with BiH law. So Kovaks is asking you for special security measures for the cold regime, etc. That is, therefore, health care safety. Why does this member not apply? In a contract awarded in accordance with international agreements, this is the Kovaks agreement, so it's all written – why don't the institutions work? We'll have unvaccinated residents and hyperproduction of the law, if that's the goal we're on our way. But I'm not for it, I'm for it to be a responsibility for the exercise of power and to obey the laws. Once again I wish that, we don't have a direct connection in the sense that someone alone is responsible that the points aren't the points of the agenda,
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2171	Mr. Špirić, uh, you've wasted your time.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2172	Because it's just impossible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2173	Thank you. Mr. Miletić, correcting the wrong quote. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2174	Forgive me if you personally understood me, I had no intention. So I've spoken in the context of responsibility in this context and you're individually as responsible as all of us sitting here. So we could discuss this issue in the first month, and I asked that, eventually, to call these two directors, the head of the agency, to see whether these amendments and additions of the law are really necessary or not. So, I asked you to talk. Of course, that is, the entire House of Peoples, I'm talking about the majority, you've rejected such a proposal, and we've lost for a month and a half of it, so I was just talking about it in the context of responsibility, and I mentioned myself and you. No matter what I'm saying, if I'm ineffective through you, so I can tell you whatever I want here, the bottom line is what these discussions are all about and whether we're really able to help our citizens or not. And if you understand me, here, personally, once again, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2175	Dušanka Majkić, the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2176	Here, respected colleagues and colleagues, I wish this was just a different agenda schedule and that this Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices was the first point, and then this Law on Public Procurement. So absolutely unnecessary, completely unnecessary is this amendment of the law, because the existing Public Procurement Act allows for doing what has to be done. Why did we not need the Public Procurement Act when the respirators were imported? Why was the Law on Public Procurement not a problem for the Republic of Serbia to import vaccines and to negotiate the continuity of delivery for a further time? Why wasn't our problem when it was offered to do the same thing for the Federation? We have nothing to worry about, we're slow to cover why this time period wasn't working, so we've missed the time. Why was it not a problem for public procurement at a time when the Rus directly warned the foreign minister to wonder what BiH was, whether the Federation would get, will not, so all the benefits given to her, even paying to negotiate in walking and it was not disputed and now someone says we will make a bill, amend the Public Procurement Act and cover what we have lost so far. Well, it can't, it's a cover-up of sloppyness. The law on public procurement defines the state we have, and we could have done it, so no one washes. You know what the problem is? We're very superficial, we're superficial when we read and when we propose laws, we don't agree on anything, if it's a proposal, and now I don't mean the House of Representatives, but I mean the SDA Club from the House of Representatives, if he was going to do it, so it wasn't logical, if he cared that the law, that these laws pass, that they sit down with their clubmates and talk, that they tell us what they're planning, how, about what. So let's see if that makes any sense, shall we? We don't read anything, colleagues, we don't read any laws, and we're a little bit less concerned with the proposals for new solutions. Fortunately, we have this service in Parliament that brings back all unfinished and unprepared laws, otherwise we would have a circus in the country's legislation. So, please, there is no argument that, under the existing law, no procurement is carried out and there is no argument that this law should be adopted. Thank you. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2177	Sredoje's Nović, the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2178	Dear Chairman, first of all allow me to congratulate you on taking charge of this House, with the desire to successfully do your part in the mandate. At the same time, I would also like to thank Mr. Špirić for his current leadership of this business. Ladies and gentlemen, why have I called here? I've been thinking for a long time if I should even answer. There's a simple answer here, and I can't, I have to say, I simply explain to myself when you look at the explanation, the reason for the law. As they say, I quote -- that BiH has failed to obtain vaccines to date for the immunisation of the population through the Kovaks mechanism, it is necessary to set an example for countries in the environment to obtain vaccines from other sources. I can't believe, maybe I'm loaded with the profession, maybe I'm burdened with a variety of reasons, when some act is passed, especially the law, that this is the reason for a soft entry into the amendment and the addition of the law. What does this mean? Knowing the atmosphere, knowing the situation in BiH, knowing the dead, knowing the sick, I expected at least that the explanation would be at least on the page, two texts. If you want to introduce some law into a procedure, if you want some law to pass, then you have to say why we're changing the existing law, I don't see a single word out of reason. Maybe I don't even know the Public Procurement Act, and in the end I don't even have to know it as a whole, it's known to those who implement the Law, but the Proposer had to say in any case what provisions of why the provisions of the Public Procurement Act are not adequate, why can't they be applied, why is the member of both the 5th and 10th and 105th not allowed to import the vaccines? It does not allow, I do not know whether it is possible to negotiate at all, is it not normal for someone to explain it to us, or because he reads this Law and doctors and lawyers and economists and all those who are in Parliament, i.e. the House of Peoples. Is it enough to say by the example of the surrounding countries? What does it mean for countries in the environment? I don't know how Serbia imported, I don't know how Croatia imported, I don't know how to talk about other countries how they imported and secured the purchase of vaccines and how. We need to be decident, we need to be clear which legislation in BiH, when it comes to the Public Procurement Act, makes it impossible to obtain a vaccine. We have to say who it is, which organ was rejected when he filed for talks, or for importing vaccines. We don't know that either, but at least I don't know, and it really, really bothers me. I can't believe, simply, that we can talk about this topic today, and we know what the problem is, how complicated it is, how much responsibility we as delegates have to be, too, responsible people and to consider all these issues in one civilized way, without patheticity, without envy, without national or other tentacles, because this isn't just a question of one, the other or the third, this is a question and the dignity of one country, but also the seriousness of a parliament why it enters the change and addition of one of the legal acts. I'm seriously concerned and doesn't believe that there's really a need to change this law, which is why I called here to say it. Apropo it is just that, I didn't want to replicate it and I don't want to open up needlessly various stories, but in this country, while I was Minister of Civil Affairs, so it's been many years, almost 10, 12 years, and I was also at the time of the flood, we introduced, an act was adopted in the Ministry of Civil Affairs on the establishment of a Health Minister's Conference at the level of BiH with very significant powers of the Conference, which were made by the Minister of Civil Affairs and Health of the Entity, Brcko District, etc. And at the time of the epidemic, do not only forget that then the ministry, or that the Health Ministers' Conference was meeting in both Croatia and Serbia and hastily taking some measures on behalf of BiH, I do not know and I do not know 13 can speak today what the Conference is doing and to what extent it is doing. But here are the key reasons why they define me that no one here, at least so far, has convinced me analytically, essentially, professionally, why BiH cannot import vaccines, what is a distraction, which is a member of this law of interference and what solves the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2179	Maybe my failure, uh, didn't remind you, is now discussing the procedure, so whether we're going through an emergency procedure, because it's already in the process. But here, uh, Mr. Bosić came forward on the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2180	Well, I'm, maybe it's not an adequate breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I wanted to appeal to you to let the House of Proposer address, which means whether it's the SDA or the House of Representatives, is it possible that here in such an important topic and in such an important time we won't be able to hear the one who proposed this Law which is his argument and which are, what formal reasons might be for this House to say, we won't be able to hear it. I think we should hear everything and draw from it some conclusion that would be good for this people.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2181	I don't think he's really going to criticise this law without listening to the promoter. I suggest we invite Mr. Osmanović, in accordance with article 64, to give an explanation. [[Common discussion]] Or let's just get this over with about the urgency of the procedure, and then, yes, yes, yes, yes, if we decide to go into further discussion, let Mr. Osmanović, however, give an explanation. Then let's talk about the procedure itself and get this debate over with. Denis Bećirović called. I'd really like to ask you to talk only about the procedure, so we'll talk about the law if there's a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2183	The whole debate so far has not been about the procedure, so we can treat that we have clearly united the debate both on the procedure and on the content of the proposed laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2184	Denise, all we have to do is stick to the story of the procedure, if we get to the point of discussing the law, then we'll talk about the metrics. Please, only the procedure, so we're discussing 14 whether we should take urgent action, if, if you intend to discuss the law itself, then wait until we get to that stage.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2185	Col. Izetbegović, it is not a problem that we are working in such a way, if you think we will get a better result during today's session, although I suggest that you do not, at the end of the discussion, talk, now let's discuss the procedure, and everyone told you first about the content. So, here, I'll stop here and not talk about the procedure, wait for the debate on the content of the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2186	Thank you. Munib Jusufović, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2187	I'll Sačekaća. I'll wait for the hearing.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2188	So, then, Munib Jusufović will discuss the Law itself when we arrive at that stage of debate. Is there anyone else coming forward regarding the procedure itself, with a proposal to go through an emergency procedure? Nobody's answering. So we can, therefore, vote on whether or not we're going after an emergency procedure. Mr. Špirić wants it to happen again. Repeat, please. We have 14 present – 13 for, abstention 1, versus none. So, in the Federation of BiH – 9 for. In Republika Srpska – 4 for and 1 abstention. We've got the general majority, the entity majority, and we're going to get an emergency procedure. So we're going to discuss the material itself, and I suggest that the bill promoter address us anyway. I invite you, Mr. Osmanović, to address as a guest and to explain, you have already, uh, heard some of the remarks, so I would ask you to, in that sense, explain the reasons for the adoption of these amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2189	You have Mrs. Majkić, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2190	It's just, just a minute, uh, Adile, we've got Mrs. Majkić's intervention, uh, in connection with a breach of the Rules of Procedure. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2191	Dear Chairman, I beg you not to do this. I understand you have a special relationship with the representatives of your party, but you won't be able to defend that attitude against the MPs of the other parties tomorrow. So, never anyone in this House and that in this high house, because by adopting the law in this House is the law of adoption, there has been no informal explanation of someone's position. So, the House of Representatives could have made so much effort to delegate someone who would be here on behalf of the House of Peoples, and he didn't do it. Why would the House of Nations do that now? I don't see a single reason. If you introduce that practice, just because it's about your party members, then you don't respect the Rules of Procedure either, you don't respect us sitting here and I ask you not to do it, there's nothing unknown here and there's nothing that we don't understand, everything is clear and everything is familiar and so please don't do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2192	Okay, thank you. So, Mr. Nović said that a stronger, more thorough explanation is needed, so that I, here, will give this proposal to listen to the initial Proposer of the Law, Mr. Osmanović, so let him, so let him turn around.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2193	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2194	Let me finish, Nikola.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2195	I'm sorry. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2196	So let this House decide whether you want to listen to Mr. Osmanović as the Proposer of the Law. Please put this to a vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2197	It's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2198	Oh, we can vote on everything, uh, Nikola, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2199	We can't really talk about everything 16 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2200	And if you don't want to, uh, here's the time to end the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2201	Okay, then... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2202	Here, therefore, of 14 of us present – for it was 6.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2203	If you can just repeat yourself...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2204	Repeat the vote, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2205	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2206	Present 14 – for 6, versus 4, abstention 4. In the Federation of BiH – for 6 abstentions 3. In Republika Srpska – against 4, no one for, abstention 1. General majority yes, entity majority no. We can't, uh, agree specifically, because there's no third member of the College, so we can't, uh, give a word to Mr. Osmanović. Let's move on with the debates... We have, therefore, an objection to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Nikola Špirić. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2207	No, no, no. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2208	You're giving up, aren't you?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2209	Yeah. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2210	Okay. Then we have Denis Bećirović, with a discussion, with a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2211	I think it's incorrect that some delegates don't want to hear the arguments of the man who came from the House of Representatives, and it's the House of Representatives who proposed these two laws, 17 but what is there. We currently have these laws on the agenda and I, without any doubt, want to say that I will support both of these laws. When asked – will these laws solve BiH's problems systematically? The answer is that they will not. When asked – are these laws still a step forward? The answer is yes. And that is why I also consider my obligation to support every step forward here in the House of Peoples, which will at least make a little more passing and efficient system. This is an emergency session of the House of Peoples, not regular, we are considering the proposals of the House of Representatives' Law now, because it was adopted by the House of Representatives. According to some discussions, the impression is that people did not vote in the House of Representatives from all political parties, so yes, all SNSD MPs voted for this and one and the other law. Then what's the problem? However, I think that according to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, it seems to me that this article 73 has the right to demand and rest for up to 30 minutes, clubs have the right to do so. It is my suggestion that we take a 30-minute break, call here for a session of the BiH Council of Ministers to come in such a difficult situation as the chairman of the Council of Ministers, that he also gives his opinion, but also to inform this House and the public about certain elements. Has the pandemic started in the first or third month at this time been irrelevant, but it is very relevant for all of us in this country, that Prime Minister Tegeltija publicly tells us, for more than a year, pandemics die in BiH, which is concrete changes, complements or laws of the Council of Ministers of BIH have proposed so far? There are no laws, no amendments and no additions, is there any measure that is proposed here? There isn't. So can it be done in such a way that the first man of one government behave? It is my suggestion, therefore, that we invite the chairman to come and read the laws and these questions I am talking about. And if he won't, I publicly invite him to resign for both political and moral reasons.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2212	So, I note, that the chairman was invited to the session, did not come. If one of the chiefs of the MPs' club proposes a break, we can take it, until then I give my word to Mladen Bosić.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2213	Well, I've never attended a meeting like this and a meeting like this in my life, so there's a pandemic outside, people are dying, people are obsessed with the situation, we're talking about whether there's any right in the Rules of Procedure to talk here and to say anything, we're dealing with formalities and little things and nonsense, instead of seeing what to do at this hour, what to do about this situation that we've been brought into, and we're being put into a situation that we're poor, that we can't be poorer. So we live here in a society whose government and institutions have led ordinary citizens to the bottom. This visit to Vučić and these vaccines that came, first thank him for the vaccines, I think we're unanimous here, is that we're even more shown what we are, we're a society that prays when others are in crisis for help, because we're unable to solve any problem. I was amazed when I read the other day in a magazine a statement by BiH Ambassador to Russia. The man writes – I was contacted by the Foreign Ministry at the request of the Federation Government, before I know what time, to see how to obtain Russian vaccines. And he called on the institution in charge of it in Russia to answer, that it is no problem to obtain vaccines of twenty, two vaccines, vaccinations and 20 dollars apiece, bring money for 15 days first delivery. A man says after informing BiH institutions no longer contacted him, no one contacted him about the procurement. 18________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2216	Dušanka Majkić, non-compliance with the established agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2217	So, I ask you, the chairman, to warn, preside over warning people who do not know what agendas are at. So, are we now talking about the point of agenda 19 called – Proposal for a Law and addition of the Public Procurement Act by an urgent procedure, is that the topic we're talking about? So this is a typical opposition speech, which doesn't even start from being familiar with the content of the Law we're talking about. Well, it's completely degutant except he wanted to spit out these guys who, well, who's the government so I can take advantage of the opportunity, and every opportunity is good if someone has to spit, that's extremely morbid. We'd really respect that you, Mr. Bosić, sat down, read one law, read another, so here you suggested too much and smart a solution, which would be a measure of things. You've only come here to... as you stand up and come and you don't care about any part of the agenda, only if there's no opportunity to spit someone out. Well, you know what, we're going to explain everything that we're talking about and what we're talking about, so no, we're not afraid at all and we don't have any fear of your insidious efforts to do everything you do against Republika Srpska and those who run this business. So you have who's in charge of it, you have who's doing it, you have who's done what so far, and only on specific cases can you say, this whole other thing you've been saying was memorized.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2218	Thank you. Mladen Bosić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2219	Well first chair, I think you should intervene on this, I would say this, a speech, an outcry of hate, means no speech. First of all, Mrs. Majkić, I don't spit, I don't spit, and when I talk, I don't want to offend people, unlike you, which is the only political discourse you have and the program is the assault and personal insult of people. That's yours, that's what you did, and I don't know how many years you've been an MP, based on such a political act. But I ask you, Chairman, to intervene in accordance with the Rules of Procedure when you hear a speech like this, it makes no sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2220	Thank you. Munib Jusufović, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2221	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I welcome you all together, about the need for procurement, I'm not going to say anything here, and we all know that we're not talking about what the situation is about this Facebook. I will focus on what I have heard from some colleagues, that there is no need to amend this Law, because in the existing law there are such provisions that can also cover this issue in a certain way. I studied very carefully and in detail Article 10 here is about Article 10 and the addition of Article 10 behind point c), now look, colleague Špirić, here you are talking about and it seems to me like a colleague, colleague Majkić. Now I'm going to try strictly legally to interpret this from my prism, and I'd like to get a concrete answer to what I'm going to say is counterargumentation. Here I agree with you, my colleague Špirić, in one part of the article, in point (c) of Article 10 of this Treaty on... may, by some chance, be accepted that the purchase through Kovaks can find its place in Article 10 because it is international contracts where one or more states are bound, etc. Internationally, we can do it in a certain way, and here I accept that this could be... but we've seen from practice what it means through Kovaks. Through Kovaks, only one quantity has been agreed and that absolutely nowhere near 20 is not satisfied and where, as is the case, I can now talk about the case of Serbia which, I don't know what the Public Procurement Act is, has been used in view of the overall situation of all possible ways to come and many countries are doing so. However, for certain reasons, whether we are concerned or not about the strict interpretation of the issue of these direct purchases does not exist here in Article 10. So, direct purchases that would go, no matter who, maybe even these commercial organizations, I don't know, go through the race suppliers, these producers. At least here I don't see it that way, I don't know or, uh, what you'd say, find an answer for me to see it, I don't see it as a lawyer. And if you were in a situation where I was deciding these questions myself, you'd hardly get into this second part. My first part is covered, which you would say, through Kovaks, but we're not going to get everything through Kovacs, but now we're trying to go all the way to get these vaccines as soon as possible. For those reasons, at least it's my understanding of this change and I wouldn't today, I'm not going to say now whether we're turning this into politicizing or not, I'm going strictly, strictly legal as I see it. For these reasons, I opt for both an explanation or no explanation, or for why I don't need you to ask everyone in this country if you should go as soon as possible, even if you ask everyone now, they'll tell you whatever you know to get them, but here I formally refer to this member and it's for those reasons I've reported that in a certain way, there we, there's something that doesn't fit. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2222	I'm sorry, Lidija Bradara's hearing.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2223	Thank you. I am chairing the congratulatory, here, for taking the lead, and I thank you for the past period, that we have survived all of this alive and healthy, although you have had health problems. Well, man doesn't know what to say about this at all, because in our public space you have those who should talk about this, they don't talk about it, and then, of course, those who are saviors, so they suggest solutions like this, and I also don't see why they should bring this to me today, and I think that there are both solutions in the law and once and for all, when you're looking for a problem why something can't and won't, then here's why you find solutions like this. Because this went to the House of Representatives as it went, the way it went, simply because of all the pressure. So now we're saying that we didn't respond well to the pandemic, and here we have a debate about how our 13 ministries and now as if we don't have coordination mechanisms, you've reminded us nicely of the Ministers' Conference. I however BiH is arranged people are being treated in their homes of health and there is their primary health care and there is the first answer to everything, when we reach the level of the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Civil Affairs it is, it is a bigger story, but that first phone you pick up, you raise up in your home of health and it is located and it is our primary health care. As far as I'm concerned, I'm not even a doctor, I'm not even a lawyer, so you have a dilemma, if we didn't all have answers in BiH, we had a very large number of infected people then if we knew how many we had got over it, then we really don't need three million doses of vaccines and the question is this immunisation process. I think that discussions about what a health care system should look like in BiH, about having to talk until the moment until health care services are paid in this country, we will not have a health care system that can answer anything. Because the way that, 21 here, it occurs to someone that at all times changes this, that third law, I don't see why this had to change. However, if this will contribute to the functioning of these things and let's see and see, here's if we change that one article of the law, even though I haven't seen or that the Agency of Medicinal Products has complained about having obstacles to this, nor have we complained about anyone, here we are now, You've mentioned profit and all, that's the question, I don't know how to get other vaccines, how we get vaccines for the vaccination of the population from seasonal flu, how we inject cattle from infectious diseases, here these are for me some dilemmas, and here I just don't think I't think I'm going to contribute to this debate, nor, but obviously to me, it's clear how it was adopted in the House of Representatives, quite clear, and here if most of them thought that this law should be passed, to advance procurement of vaccines, here we'll probably apply ourselves. But today we have heard debates here that we should bring unconstitutional laws, unconstitutional solutions, so we are indeed a specific country, but I don't think that even I think that the large regulated countries have given a better answer to this question, this is really something that is unknown both in the world and in BiH. Maybe at some point in this situation, we're better off than others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2224	Nikola, uh, wants to announce me for a debate, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2225	The debate came from the chairman, Mr. Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2226	So, I ask you to look again at Article 10, which speaks, the Law on Procurement, is whether, which speaks of exceptions to the application of the provisions of this Law. If we don't adopt this today, the supplies of the vaccine will be subject to the deadlines prescribed by the law, and then it can be your fault, or we can be guilty of this House for not removing that obstacle, possibly, for the rapid purchase of the vaccine. So, apart from the fact that there's one slowness, one indolence of the government, so we can be guilty because we stopped something that went through at the House of Representatives, which allows them to speed up and simplify procedures. So I appeal to you today, don't let us be the ones who made another obstacle. So another problem for the people who, uh, doesn't have what it takes to protect themselves at this hour from the pandemic. Look, please, article 10, and you'll see exceptions, it is necessary, in my opinion, to classify an exemption for this situation, for the purchase of vaccines. So, of course, when it comes to, as Mrs. Bradara said, uh, the procedure for obtaining all possible vaccines, all that for both people and cattle, etc. to get it by law, but these are procedures that take months, this time to work in a few days, not in a few months procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2227	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2228	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. 22 I would like to correct the false quote of my colleague Lidija Bradara, most of the discussion agrees with her views and views and discussion, because indeed here we could discuss a lot of things, but I am correcting the wrong quote in the part of your discussion – some majority. As far as I'm informed, it's not "some majority", it's a unique position of the House of Representatives, and that's where all the clubs have agreed. So it was absolutely not "some majority", but was a unanimous stance of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2229	Dušanka Majkić, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2230	So, what you were saying, and I refer to this, uh, what my colleague was just saying. Article 10 is called the exceptions to the application of the provisions of this law and the point directly applicable, one of the points, there are more, but those directly related to this point are point 1.b) which says – a public procurement contract whose enforcement requires special security measures in accordance with the laws, all the laws in BiH, that is the point relating to this. Therefore, the Law on Public Procurement is very restrictive and does not make exceptions easy and now when making a new Law on Public Procurement, a fierce battle is being fought over what is an exception, what is not. So, this is something that is partly covered through this member who is... on the international these relations and that's it, let's assume that this is the end of the procedure, but this second part, which is now carrying on the urgency, is respected that the Public Procurement Act allows public procurement to be made if there are special security measures, which this case is. So, no need, all waiting, waiting for someone from the Federation to say, Republika Srpska has defined the whole way, waiting for someone from the Federation to say, if it takes so much to get into it. And now that's just the problem and that's why we're changing the law, so people don't make sense, here's the procedure for the new Public Procurement Act, and we got two. So it's absurd to change this law now, because it regulates what's the subject of what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2231	Munib Jusufović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2232	Thank you very much. I think the member, this exception you're talking about, at point b, implies something else entirely. This law is made, Bog knows for himself, let's remember how... not even known about this case that I'm talking about today, so... this is a whole other aspect of security, not what we're talking about. But if anyone will confirm that your understanding from the agencies, I'll agree with that. I claim the exemption should be made today, no matter what, but it doesn't need to be misused, because there's an abuse, here's what happened. I'm still saying, and somebody challenge me, that under point c) kovaks can only be excluded, but I'm saying everything else is controversial. So I think, I don't know what we're losing, if we're going to add this, this particular instrument that we're talking about today. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2233	Zlatko Miletić, the debate. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2234	I'll try to be brief and really go back to the contents of the agenda, that is, this provision of members and Article 10. I'm not a lawyer, and I really don't want to object in any way, especially to my colleague Nović, who I've known for 30 years and I really respect and respect for him, Mrs. Majkić, as well as Mr. Munib. What it's really about, this is my personal understanding of the law, so it doesn't mean that what I'm saying is that I'm from a legal point of view right. Munib, Mr. Munib well notes that this provision, means 10.c) applies only, and we have such a situation with this international contract, when it comes to the Kovaks system. But both of these laws now need to be looked at in correlation, you'll see there in an explanation when it comes to this other law, exactly the people of the agency are telling us that the Council of Ministers is not authorized to do so when it comes to the agency and that there must be a special exception in that law, but I'm not going to talk about it right now. I want to tell Mrs. Dušanka, I don't mind if we all agree that direct procurement, I speak for the agreed parties, entities, Brcko District and Cantons, can be done by this, is Article 10.b) and that security, under the supposed signs, will cover that they can do so, I don't mind. But right now, you know, that we've loaded on ourselves, that's one aspect, and that's actually going to call us all yes and it's going to be called simply, here's the Federation government when it's working on this member of the law and it says it can be obtained from, I don't even know which, the producer by direct procurement, at least when it comes to vaccines. So, I don't mind if we all agree that, let's say that kind of attitude, but please, in a certain way we underestimate the intelligence of people, even from your party, means all of us, who made this decision, turn out to be now who we are, who we are, who we are, who we don't know, the minors voted unanimously, we're looking for another solution. So, whatever and whatever it is, it's important that from this situation, today from this room when I get out, that people in entities, cantons, Brcko District know which member of the law to call and start getting the vaccine, that's the point for me, if we're all going to be that, then Article 10, I don't know point b) or point c) is quite clear, so we need to inform the public that we've solved this issue. Or if you think, and I think, my personal position, that this exception should be regulated in a particularly precise way, as proposed, that is my personal opinion, that there would be no later loops or additions, or that there would be no finding any additional holes in the law, that I would not say any other actions that would have any connection or situation to be brought in similar to respirators, the procurement of hospitals in Republika Srpska and some other things, but here I am not talking about it. So please give us any way to solve this question, whatever it is, but let's get out of here with a unique attitude how and how people can do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2235	Lazar Prodanović, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2236	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wish you success in the presidency of the next eight months of the House of Peoples. My correction to the wrong quote refers to a respected colleague, Zlatko Miletić. So Article 10(b) of the Law on Public Procurement, which was adopted after, therefore, these floods affecting BiH, is absolutely applicable, I tell you how. So, do you think the Council of Ministers, therefore, would sign an agreement on 24 accession to the global supply institution, Kovaks, to supply poor countries with vaccines that did not have a foothold in the law, is one argument. The second argument relating to this, therefore, to the same ministry within the Council of Ministers of BiH, has called for four lotes, therefore, for public procurement for these vaccines, with the choice of suppliers, therefore, intermediaries in this process that have conditions in terms of equipment, storage, storage and transport of vaccines. I mean, here's your most impressive one. I will give you another striking reason which applies to the years within BiH, that the institutions of government, therefore, whether they are at the level of BiH, entity, canton or lower levels of government, are performed in an identical manner of public procurement, for example, the Solidarity Fund within the Federation of BiH for Supply, for example, insulins in BiH or the Republika Srpska Health Fund, which for years identically appears as a contractual body which provides, in this sense, that wholesale sales, by means of wholesale, are, for example, cytostatics, sanitary material, surgical material, etc. I just wanted to tell you. Furthermore, I am telling you very clearly, given the consultation that concerns BiH's competent institutions that would be obliged to control possible legal violations of these provisions when it comes to, uh, these kinds of activities. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2237	Nikola Špirić, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2238	Mr. Chairman, esteemed fellow delegates. Well, actually, as the debate takes place, it seems to me, the situation is getting clearer. We are not from any agency, no institutions in BiH have received a request for interpretations of the law. So, I don't know that there is a request for any of them, since Parliament is a legislator, that we interpret the law. We believe that this Law provides a framework so that procurement can be carried out uninterrupted in accordance with the law. So we think and that's why we don't think we should change it. If by any chance the agency or the ministry or anyone else had asked for the interpretation of the law, then we would have declared what Col. Miletić was talking about and that was meaningful. But today we have a request for amendments to the law and we must have our own position. So there is no interpretation requirement, that there is a I would say that Article 10(b) and (c) provide sufficient space for purchases to be carried out. Because actually people mean that all those who went into the supply of any vaccines are in the process of breaking the law. So no agency has asked to say we have a problem, please interpret the law. So they don't have that dilemma. Why institutions stand in a dead end, I do not understand it, and I remain, therefore, in the view that this 10th article gives enough space for the process to take place in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2239	Munib Jusufović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2240	Well, here, I'm going to get involved right now, and I'm not going to insist anymore, because obviously there are different aspects of the interpretation of this member. Depending on how he looks, I legally look, the engineer looks engineeringly, the doctor looks at his own way, etc. I'll just ask you, and then I'll move on to the second proposal that solves this around. If you think that Article 25 b), and I'm going to quote it, is an exception enough for what we're talking about, since he's short I'm going to read it. Under b) says – an exemption, and we are talking about exemptions from the application of the provisions, a public procurement contract whose enforcement requires special security measures in accordance with the laws in BiH. Now, let me ask you -- what measures does this take under the laws of security, according to the laws of BiH, require the vaccine of Fajzerov? Well, that requires according to their regulations, and he imposes rules on you that you owe the state, and it's not regulated by BiH law. And that's why this applies, I'm sure, to security measures -- and regulated by BiH laws. But let's say, if and so, if we think it's b) point or c) that this is closing this problem, there's a mechanism, fellow Špirić, it doesn't have to mean that just authentic interpretation, that's where we all agree, authentic interpretation is given by legislator, which means here's the Dom. If there are two types here, two groups, how can I say, understandings, you think, about one number thinks that the solution to this problem is here and that it is in the provisions of the law in Article 10. I also consider a certain number to be a part of it, and one part is not. Let's solve this question in a way, here, without any problems, we're the legislator here, that with this, here, we think that yes, there's a solution, there's an exception in Article 10, but we're automatically voting for the authentic interpretation of this House, that that's it. Not in that case, not in the agency, not in anyone's life, but in any case, it's more of a problem. So we think that this question is resolved through this, but provided that we have the right as a legislator to vote, that this is the solution here in Article 10, that in point b) and c) there is no problem, through the form of authentic interpretation. That's it and that's the solution. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2241	So, Munibe, you can make a written proposal for a conclusion. The next one is Lazar Prodanović, the correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2242	Well, it's just one sentence. So here, when it comes to position b) Article 10(b), so – endangering the security, that is, the security of the citizens of BiH or the threat, the national threat, as other states interpret it, the health of the citizens of BiH, is absolutely applicable to this segment. I don't want to say here, right now I have to say, this, this part that's proposed, it's possible, but it's an adversities. It is unnecessary for us to have an overload within the legislation. And still, when we talk about this, it's hard to talk about this one segment right now, and not to mention here the Drug Act, it's going to be the second part of the debate where I'd like to, I want to tell you, so absolutely, so whether you think that agencies or the Office to discuss the appeal would not initiate proceedings against now possible violations of the law by the Ministry of Civil Affairs. Well, the procedure is completely over. And second when you're talking, just more, about the phaser or this Kovaks system. You see, that BiH cannot influence, unfortunately there are other requirements, the key requirements of the multinational pharmaceuticals company refer to the country as the supplier or buyer of the vaccine as saying in a public statement that it will not seek compensation for the possible harmful fact of the medicine. It's the second part that doesn't depend on us, we can do it, we have a system or we have to take it or leave it. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2243	Zlatko Miletić, correcting the wrong allegations. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2244	Among other things, to apologize here on the back or from the last discussion when it comes to whether, Fajzer and their request, he is completely hypocritical, immoral, that the company that produces the cure from any institution, global, health, including us as a state, is looking for the signature of one such statement for what they have done, that whoever gets no answer for it if there are side effects, which I first hear in the last seven epidemics that have been in the world for the past 20 years, that's one thing and I think it's disgusting, disaster. The second thing, you obviously didn't get me right, so I respect you, here, the first Mr. Nović started talking about it, that this is a legal basis, so Mrs. Dušanka, so here's Munib, I agree with you, but if that's how it is, if we're giving that kind of legal interpretation right now, the question is, so what was the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federation, cantons and Brcko District? Here, if you take, uh, the president of the Republic of Serbia, the man in that supply, according to his statement, left in the eighth month of last year. So if everyone knows this, so why did my people, our contractors, not under that law half a year ago think about this and get into that supply, then today they'd probably have those vaccines. Obviously, people are in fear whether from the respirator, I don't know what, that they're going to have some consequences, but if you don't give anything at all today, here I agree with Munib's proposal, let's at least go out with some common ground and let's say our interpretation is that and let some people, and here, they've been screwing around for half a year, let's start today with that supply and let's finish this story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2245	Asim Sarajlić, the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2246	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, I didn't mean to discuss it, but I'm gonna have to end up being the head of the Bosniak Club in this honorable House. It was a little difficult for me to see how we treated our colleague, Mr Adil Osmanović, the president of the SDA Club at the House of Representatives, the Ministerial Council, I guess that's the current political moment, so in a way we're not going to say it, but we certainly did. Because Adil Osmanović did not come here alone, he was not invited by Bakir Izetbegović or Asim Sarajlić, so Adil Osmanović received an invitation for today's meeting of the House of Peoples, that is, the invitation signed by the then chairman, Mr Nikola Špirić, Dr. Nikola Špirić's invitation went to the House of Representatives, that call was forwarded to Mr. Adil Osmanović at the House of Representatives and he came here neatly and sat down and waited, listened to our discussions, and we did not have the decency to listen to him. That speaks little of our current political moment. Therefore, it is very clear and precise what was happening in the House of Representatives, so the new position c) in Article 10. 31, it seems to me, the man said it was necessary. Is it pressure, is it not, therefore, that Mr. Osmanović's proposal, is the SDA's proposal, but the support of all clubs was also present at the Hall at the time was given to this proposal and this which we will discuss under the third item of the agenda. What's changing? Well, the political situation is changing, the political environment is changing. Today comes the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Vučić, brings us vaccines, thank him. We're having discussions today about who was getting respirators, whether there were laws then, whether there were laws, what were, uh, procurements in Republika Srpska and Polish hospitals and other preparations, etc. When Mr Vućić was asked at the 27th Belgrade airport, when he received the first respirator contingent from China, he said don't ask me anything, and for the vaccines he told me I'll get them from the Chechen mafia if I should, uh, just to provide it to the citizens of Serbia. So, we live in such an environment, we live in such a world, in a world where respirators were provided with services and what Miletić says, about Mosad and Israel and about Natasha, why Israel today has the most vaccinated inhabitants, because the services deal with the team, because the states are dealing with the team. You also know when Mr. Prodanović says that Fajzer is looking for that statement, so of course he's looking for it, all of them were, uh, putting vaccines on the market and Astrazenek and Fajzer and Sputnik, etc. They talked about percentages, uh, efficiency of that vaccine, so everyone said it was 93.94%, etc. Because of those 6.7% and by-products, of course they'll protect themselves, because they're following, uh, multimillion lawsuits, etc. So we live in that world. But I'm sorry that today in this environment we welcomed fellow Osmanović, not that he is a member of the party I belong to, but that he really came in good faith and someone sent him this call from the chairman at that moment, Mr. Nikola Špirić, which we had, we should have in mind. We appreciate that this, this position c) is new, obviously, that today we hear other arguments from colleagues from the SNSD primarily, that in Article 10 we have enough frames to obtain. Someone thought we didn't have it, that we needed it more explicitly and delivered it to us in the procedure, therefore, adopted in the House of Representatives. Again, we are going back to our current state of affairs, agreeing, making decisions, whether anyone wants this country to be more efficient, more functional, we are now entering political topics that are effectively acquired, why it is concerned, why the Federation did this, RS what, I want to believe that the SDA Club and the House of Representatives had a good faith to simplify and specify, to state this situation, because we had similar initiatives in other law interventions, that, let's say, the standards in the judiciary and the work of the judiciary were to adapt to this state, so you know about the changes of the Rules of Procedure both at the entity level and at cantonal level, so that professional and legislative bodies would act, that the online sessions were introduced, etc. Uh, I think the promoter had a good intention, to simplify, speed up, answer the given moment. Are some of the more invited, which Mr Špirić spoke of, medicines agencies, entity ministries, cantonal ministries, what prevented them, and what did not, I return you to the world where we live, where services, where serious states take goods, we saw before vaccines, kidnap, so goods, paid goods hijacking, intercepted, is not now the wild west, it happened in our nearby environment, therefore, in countries such as the European Union, Bulgaria, Romania, France, etc. So today in such a world we live with the structure that is in BiH and, of course, it's all about commitment and political will, if anything is wanted. I think the change in attitude, or the new position c) in Article 10 would explain the procedure, specify, make it more efficient, shorten the deadlines, but unfortunately, here, obviously from the debate we see that there is no will today, as it was in the House of Representatives last week, so this went unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2247	Nikola Špirić, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2248	Just for a little while, fellow Sarajlić. So, seeing as he's trying to address some things here, I don't think it's correct. A lot of respect from a colleague from the House of Representatives, who was present here today. So, when meetings are scheduled, the memos go to the House of Representatives, to the Bureau, to the Council of Ministers, do not go to the address of lawmakers. The House of Representatives can empower a colleague to represent him today, because the law when adopted in the House of Representatives is no longer the law of the House of Representatives. So, the SDA has its delegates here, too, and it can defend that attitude, and today we're having a proper conversation. So this isn't our relationship to our colleague from the House of Representatives, until yesterday's Minister of Civil Affairs, but this is respect for the Rules of Procedure, and that's what I pointed out. Otherwise it should have been different, then we could have held a plenary session of both homes where all MPs from the House of Representatives would be. He has no greater option than any other MP, if he is not authorized by the House to interpret the law here today, it would not be correct for others. If he has the authority to run the House, he's wanted here, and there wouldn't be any problem with him explaining it to us. So, just to be clear. I'm still standing at the point where we don't need to cover the troubles of institutions by amending the law. Who can guarantee to change the law that people will make moves, if we all think the law gives enough ground to make moves to pull, to get vaccines. Well, my people are asking the question of human policy in BiH, if the parties have chosen people who don't respect the laws, but parties, we have system paralysis, don't you see? If, therefore, the paralysis of the system in depth, what the colleagues were talking about is, uh, is this the security measure, so the 10th indent b) so you know that all cantons were making a decision, declaring an emergency, entities, accordingly.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2249	You're out of time.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2250	Your own decisions. So that's that health security, I apologize and I'll finish, and they'll evaluate, make a vaccination plan, but that's what people should have done. Did the parties invite anyone to the responsibility of the personnel they deployed for why they didn't and we tried to accept responsibility in this House with a skillful political game, I'm against it. I don't want to cover anyone's dislike, if the parties had determined responsibility for the personnel they were putting in place, for not getting the vaccines, and you have the possibility, that would have been another story. So, don't let us do that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2251	Asim Sarajlić, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2252	The chairman, then, just for a little while. I didn't say he was chairman at that point, Dr. President. Nikola Špirić sent an invitation to Mr. Osmanović, so I saw the call that went to the House of Representatives, which was signed by Mr. Nikola Špirić, addressed him to the House of Representatives. So someone in this House of Representatives forwarded the call to Mr. Adil Osmanović, as a promoter at their home. So that's a question for the fellow down there, but, therefore, the man didn't come here alone and uninvited. Someone forwarded that call to him and he responded and came. _________(?) 29 [[no microphone turned on]] Not everyone gets, I'm sorry, not everyone gets. So they rated, probably the College or the secretary, I don't know who forwarded that call to Mr. Osmanović, and he came here in good faith. So we should've let him at least say that, yeah, who gave him the call.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2254	Denis Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2255	Mr. Špirić spoke about the paralysis of the system in depth and that is a sentence to which we should pay attention and perhaps it is time to talk essentially about some things, because these, these two laws, changes and additions, are just the tip of the iceberg. You have a complete parliament that has never been more inefficient, you have a Council of Ministers that does not deliver the law, you have really that paralysis that Špirić is talking about. And why do we have this paralysis? So the strategic document, which follows the SNSD, says that all mechanisms should be used to depreciate, defuse and disable the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, in a strategic document followed by the SNSD, it says that in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, even laws that do not harm the entity of the RS, the state document that follows the SNSD writes that when they do so, it is important to prove the inability to function BiH institutions and the state of BiH. And if you're asking me what document is next to SNSD, it's gentlemen of the SANU 2 Memorandum that's already being implemented, and what we've been looking at for years and today, that's what people need to know, that every ambassador here in BiH knows what it's all about, that every political party and every citizen of this country knows. The country is sinking precisely because of such a policy, but BiH will survive, it will win such a policy, unfortunately all citizens of the country suffer.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2256	Nikola Špirić, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2257	Oh, I'm sorry, I'm gonna take a short time, Denise, and I have no intention of doing it this way, because I was worried that there was some document I didn't know about, which I was worried about. And otherwise these documents you're reading, I haven't had a chance to read, they don't refer to SNSD policy or SNSD, but I think the way you tried to help the BiH citizens today has led them to a situation that is located in an unsuspecting space and I'm sorry that your proposal supported the SDA. I can read it this way, that you are not interested in whether the citizens of the vaccine in BiH, but through the accident you want to go to the health ministry, which will not solve the problem. So that's the problem and I'm saying I'm against it. We will support, therefore, no matter what the document has to do with the Federation government to vaccinate the population, and if any of the documents that you mention exist from SANU, you just deliberately interpret it, it doesn't say anywhere in that document. Here, I beg you, please read the document, don't lie to the public, it's not fair, it's not human.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2258	He sees people... [[no microphone turned on]] 30
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2259	Don't let them see, see people, see people, but Denise is against BiH, don't argue where you shouldn't. If Nikola Špirić were wondering, we'd be living in a happier country, maybe it wouldn't satisfy Denis' visor, Denisov, but that's less important, let's help these people. Today, you put in a topic that took us away, even though it was unnecessary, in my view, these two points of the agenda. So you're interested in the health ministry, you don't care how many people in BiH will take care of it. The problem of vaccination, immunisation in BiH needs to be solved, fighting manitations. I see you have a problem with Srbin in BiH, but now you have a problem with Srbin in Serbia, so of course there are
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2260	It's been two minutes, Nikola.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2261	The Serbian Academy of Science and Arts that she is writing her papers, as is the case here in Bosniak, is that right. I don't mind her, and you don't mind everything that's Serbian and you don't mind BiH's Social Democrats, so we've seen through these intentions. And I beg you, therefore, human please, don't do this, I was scared when I heard the quotes from some document that doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2262	You've wasted your time...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2263	And you must tell this country
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2264	Please finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2265	to lie to the citizens of this country, and it is dangerous to lie from the state parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2266	Dušanka Majkić, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2267	I want to tell Mr. Denis that we will always support everything that is in accordance with Annex IV of the Dayton Peace Agreement, all that is prescribed there, we will participate in all the arrangements to seek a solution. We will not be the ones who say one thing today, and tomorrow the other, our principles are unique and always clearly manifested. You never need to think about how we're going to react, see the Constitution, and you'll know if something's going to pass or not. But the principles that you, counterpart Bećirović, represent will not make BiH the way you want in the end as the most massive club, i.e. the most massive people support you, you cannot make BiH your own wishes. It must correspond to each of the three constituent nations, and so far you have not, of the 19 initiatives you have submitted, each one was against the constitution and each one was against this country. We're not going to convince you, we have 31 mechanisms to deal with you. So, we're staying here and we're ready for all the conversations that come from these grounds as I said.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2268	Denis Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2269	Something really struck you by the mention of sanu 2 memoir, is there any other replicas to it? You are currently working here in the BiH Parliament in accordance with the instructions of Memoranda SANU 2, you are doing the point, and we must open our eyes to people, but also to the international community, everyone must know what it is. You say, Mrs. Majkić, we respect Annex IV, so that you respect Aneks IV by God, your boss tells you that BiH is not a state but a RS state. Well, it doesn't say that in Annex IV, it says that BiH was a state, that it was a state and it was forever a state. So it's not what you say. My BiH, to repeat this to you again, is BiH equal to both citizens and peoples, all I think about to one nation is that I think to another, and I don't share people according to which are religions, races and nations, and I've never done that. A kolega Špirić says, he says, put in any topic that will help, so you have the Council of Ministers, you have the Council of Ministers, you have a nearly complete club here, and you didn't suggest anything and you refused everything anyone here has suggested and how then you can tell someone to suggest something. Why don't you suggest anything? You're the government, you need to answer that question, not turn it around. He says I'm in the way of the Srbin. Where's my statement that I'm disturbed by Srbin? So I'm acting in a political party that has for decades both Srbin and Hrvat and Bošnjak and others, if it has my statement such please tell you specifically, but don't use what Ernest Bloch is long ago studying totalitarian systems, so when
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2270	It's been two minutes, Denise, please finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2271	My second replica, he had four, uh, Bloch said well, says – there's so-called. It's a laxative lie. It's a lie of that kind that you try to transfer everything you do to someone else, but that should be revealed. After all, my colleague Izetbegović, here, I will stop myself from moving on.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2272	Thank you. No discussion reports, no replicas reported. We're going to vote on the content of the law. At present 14 – for vote 9, against 4, abstention 1. In the Federation of BiH -- for 9, no one against, no one abstention. In Republika Srpska – against 4.1 abstention. We have the general majority, the entity majority we don't have. We can't go to the second round, because we don't have Mr. Čović, so, yeah, what exactly is 32?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2273	Post-gap.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2274	It's an ex post alignment, which we can't do today. Let's go to point three, Ad. 3. Request of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices by Emergency Procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, issue: 01,02-02-1-498-2/21 of 26.02.2021 You have received a request from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to discuss the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices under emergency procedure in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. So, we're discussing procedure. I'm opening a procedure debate, an emergency procedure. Is anyone answering for a word? No Niko's answering for a word. Let's vote on the procedure itself. ... 14 present – for vote 13, against no one, abstention 1. We have a general majority, entity, therefore an emergency procedure has been adopted. Let's get to the content of the law. I'm opening a discussion on the content of the law. Is anyone answering for a word? Dušanka Majkić, the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2276	At first, I immediately remembered a fine thought of the people who say – beware of the haste, for it always leads to repentance. That's where we are today with this law. He quickly went to the House of Representatives, so now we have to talk about him. Sometimes I admire how we are psychic in some cases when we make certain laws and then not without pride I say that this Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, which was passed in 2008, I don't know... our Mr. Sredoje Nović was in charge of this Law, never before had the need to change, because so he was done that he had no need to change. Now, what did the law predict? He predicted, that this Article of Article 66(3), which is here in this case quack 22, i.e. the one which is clear, but also those who have not read well, had no patience to read it to the end, that the competent entity ministries and the Brcko District Health Department may authorise imports of medicines that have not been authorised to place the medicinal product on the market in cases: urgent imports for the purposes of individual treatment on a proposal for a health institution; urgent imports of limited quantities of medicinal products which do not have marketing authorisation, and necessary for the protection of the health of 33 inhabitants on the proposal of a health institution; urgent imports of medicinal products of humanitarian origin and imports of medicinal products required for scientific and research work. And everything that has been done so far has been done in accordance with Article 66(3) and what is now going on in the House of Representatives, so a law is adopted following an emergency procedure that introduces a new position (4) in Article 63 and which says – during the duration of the natural and other accidents or emergency, if there is a danger of rapid and uncontrolled spread of infectious disease, or is necessary to protect the public health of the BiH population, the Council of BiH, the government of entities, cantons and the Brcko District or other public authority in BiH, and now it is 22, under the authority of the BiH Council of Ministers and with the agreement of the agency. So far, this does not exist, so a new sentence is being introduced that underlines the importance of BiH institutions, not those that were foreseen in the law, according to the original 2008 law. Therefore, under the authority of the BiH Council of Ministers, with the consent of the Agency, it may obtain immunisation, treatment of infectious diseases through direct contractual relations with drug manufacturers, and be imported into BiH through and through co-operation with legal persons who obtain a marketing authorisation from the Agency,... investigations of legal and sublegal etc. I mean, so I took this as a bad idea. It was much more important for someone to make it impossible for Republika Srpska to continue importing drugs than to, as the Federation will find its chance in doing so. That's why it's so problematic today, someone had a bad intention, and when you have a bad intention and you only hope that there's a chance that no one will notice on that chance, I have to remind you that there are enough people in the House of Peoples who apply every word that's written and can't happen to us and that you have in mind in the future that we're going to weigh every word. There is no direct need at that speed, because at the speed, as I said earlier, a pea is made, but it is a direct need to recognize bad intentions, and in a political situation where we don't trust each other, each thing should first be consulted, agreed, we see what our similarities and differences are, and then we should go. That's why there's no law from the Council of Ministers, because there's no agreement, there's always someone against it. He is right to chair the Council of Ministers, there is no law to go there to lead chaos in Parliament because when no agreement can be reached within the Council of Ministers. When those who act in power reach minimum agreements, about any legal project, then we'll have different conversations here. This is a force, what we've done is forcefully, this is just ruining our relationship, we haven't fixed anything, and we're not gonna fix anything with this. I have heard that they are already asking from the Federation how Republika Srpska has dealt with this now and that, ready for some of the activities to be transferred to Republika Srpska and that the chairman of the Presidency has spoken to you on several occasions, if necessary, we will engage that the Federation will also get as much as Republika Srpska, to use the same mechanism as we did. So, there's nothing, there's no problem with that, but don't come at us with bad intentions. So, the existing law clearly defines what to do, there is no mandate of the Council of Ministers, we do not accept that, that what we have so far as we have as a fact, that this becomes a belief and that we depend on the Agency for Medicinal Products and Council of Ministers, we cannot do so, we will not give any benefit that is given to the Republic of Serbia more because we have seen how it ends. Therefore, this Law is totally unacceptable to us, completely unacceptable and would like it to serve at least as a teaching to future with more understanding, trust, and especially to talk about all the issues that are being opened we will have more hearing and meaning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-02-0.u2277	No Niko has reported for discussion or replica, so we have to vote on the law itself. 34 Put the law to the vote. Attending 14 – 9 votes against 4, abstention 1. In the Federation of BiH – 9 for, against and abstentioned no one. In Republika Srpska – 4 against, no one for and 1 abstention. We have the general majority, the entity majority we don't have. We don't have Mr. Čović, so we can't go to the second round, there's no alignment, there's no subsequent alignment. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I understand that we have completed the 7th emergency session of the House of Peoples. I'm closing the session. The date on which the next session will be held will be subsequently notified, it will take place in March. Thank you. Session completed at 14:15 p.m.
