ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10884	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the parliament, I am opening the 25th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. We will now listen to Bosnia and Herzegovina's anthem. Once again, I warmly welcome all present MPs, MPs and distinguished guests. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] The absence was justified by MP Mirsad Kukić and representative Nada Mladina, the delay was announced by the distinguished representative Edita Đapo. There are 25 MPs present at this time. BiH Civilian Minister Ankica Gudeljević announced that she was unable to attend the session due to earlier commitments, and the Office of Justice also provided a notice that Minister Josip Grubeša would not attend the session due to earlier commitments. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As indicated in your call for a session and in accordance with Article 167. The Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session before the debate on the agenda, will allow MPs to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. In accordance with Article 168. The rules of procedure for asking parliamentary questions in oral form were submitted by the following representatives: jasmin Emrić, Minister of Communications and Transport of BiH, Aida Baručija, Minister of Justice Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, Minister of Communications and Transport of BiH and Damir Arnaut, BiH Foreign Minister. These announcements were made in accordance with Rule 168 (2) of the Rules of Procedure by the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and the member of the BiH Council of Ministers to whom the issue concerns. I would also like to remind you that a direct TV transmission of this part of the session has been provided, and in accordance with Rule 167 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. We can now start by asking oral parliamentary questions and giving answers by representatives of the BiH Council of Ministers. I give my word to President Jasmin Emrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10885	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Bosnia and Herzegovina became a member of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea on 12 January 1994 when a notification of succession and accession was made. Since then, even after 27 years, Bosnia and Herzegovina has not achieved all the rights of the seas that belong to it as a coastal state. In 2004, the Republic of Croatia adopted a Maritime Code declaring its internal seawaters, which continuously embrace the internal waters of our country, without a prior agreement on demarcation at sea and the definition of an open sea waterway. The BiH Council of Ministers is on a proposal from the Ministry of Communications and Transport at the 89th session, held on 04 April 2014. For 2 years, it adopted a Decision appointing the Joint Team for the Negotiations with the Republic of Croatia on the application of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Divergence at Sea. Article 3 of that Decision laid down the task of the Joint Team in such a way that it participates in negotiations with representatives of the Republic of Croatia on the application of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Divergence at Sea, as well as in accordance with the provisions of the Convention and other activities provided for in the Action Plan to overcome the consequences of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, which are related to the matter subject to the Convention. Article 4 of the Decision provides that the Joint Team shall submit a monthly report to the BiH Council of Ministers on the activities carried out under Article 3. How is this a strategic very important issue in order to achieve full sovereignty and territorial integrity, as well as the return of taken-off maritime rights, which BiH belongs to as a coastal state, I am asking the question of the Minister of Communications and Transport – What has been done by the competent ministry on the basis of a report by the Joint Team, which is now the status of the team, and which body is now carrying out activities in front of the Council of Ministers which are now in relation to the application of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Disseminating Sea? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10886	Thank you. Do we have an answer from the Ministry of Transport and Communications? We don't have an answer. Are you happy to be delivered in writing? Here you go, jasmin Emrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10887	Yes, I certainly ask that an answer be delivered in written form and I resent, of course, the Minister for not preparing the answer to this question, and as you can see, I repeat this question to point out once again the importance of resolving the maritime demarcation with the Republic of Croatia, and the achievement of all sea rights for our country, and in particular the right to free access to the open sea. Taking into account the current and current irresponsibility and negligence of the Council of Ministers and appointed competent authorities in the face of this important strategic issue, and condemning the ongoing blockade of work and neglect of the exercise of duties and obligations by individual members of the Council of Ministers, I am taking the opportunity to once again call on the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Communications and Transport to urgently launch activities, initiatives to adopt the law on the sea of BiH and set the waterway for free access to the open sea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10888	Thank you. I give my word to Aida Baručija. Here you go. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10889	I thank the chairman and welcome all present. Since the minister is not present, I will refer my question to one of the next sessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10890	Thank you. I give the word to MPs Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10891	And I'm gonna drop the question today, so I'm gonna take a chance next month.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10892	Thank you. I give my word to Representative Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10893	Thank you, Chairman. And you see, I don't know who's boycotting the work of the institutions here anymore, except for President tegeltija, there's not one minister, I see two deputy ministers, but there's not one minister from neither the SDA nor the HDZ, so it turns out that these three ruling parties are boycotting the work of the institutions together, and in any case boycotting this Parliament, I can't draw a different conclusion if the sessions are held as rarely as they are held, and then no minister comes to the session. In any case, my question, not to mention that the foreign minister has entered parliament twice since she was appointed, my question has been to her, I have already asked him in oral form, in writing form, and I will repeat the question now and ask to be delivered in written form, therefore, to the visa-free regime for BiH citizens, bearers of ordinary passports. We have a situation that a large number of Middle Eastern countries do not allow our citizens to enter without a visa, and BiH allows entry, visa-free entry to their citizens. So – Why can the citizens of Emirata, Oman, Katara and Kuwait come to BiH without a visa and our citizens can't go there? And to make things worse, we're one of two, three countries whose citizens don't enjoy it. Serbian citizens can go to the United Arab Emirates, Oman, Qatar and Kuwait without a visa, and bh citizens cannot. Lebanon and Egypt, also Serbian citizens can go there without a visa, our citizens cannot. I also wanted to take this opportunity, if, if Minister Cikotić was there, to ask him – What about the implementation of the initiative, which was adopted nearly three months ago, next Monday will be three months to allow the stay of digital nomads in BiH? On 20 September, as the House, we gave the Council of Ministers a deadline, and it is specifically the responsibility of the Ministry of Security to produce a draft law on amendments and additions to the Foreign Law in order to allow the stay of digital nomads. There will be 4 next Mondays, the deadline will expire and we will obviously not have that draft from the ministry. So this is really incomprehensible and I'm asking you to examine why there are not only SNSD ministers here, but there are no SDAs, and there are no HDZ ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10894	Thank you. Let's move on, we're moving on to the agenda, first of all I want to mention the following, competent commissions except the Transport and Communications Commission have, unfortunately, not held meetings due to the lack of quorum, and no opinions have been delivered for the next item of the agenda. The Joint Committee on Human Rights has not delivered opinions on point 4. A report on the protection of personal data in BiH for 2020. Point 5. A special report on the effectiveness of legal solutions in the field of professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities in BiH, who is the applicant of the Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution. For point 7. Reviewing the initiative of MP Damir Arnaut, which is required by the Ministry of Civil Affairs to establish a procedure and start the process of issuing a single COVID-19 certificate with QR code within 14 days of the adoption of this initiative, with the aim of using them outside Bosnia and Herzegovina in one of two ways: 1. issuing such certificates from the Ministry itself or 2. creating and delivering to those competent authorities a single form for the issue of such certificates and for point 11. A review of MP Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic's initiative and Aida Baručija's mandated by the BiH Council of Ministers to end the process of harmonising legislation in the area of protection of personal data with the newly adopted regulations of the European Union within 90 days. The Commission for Budget and Finance has not delivered an opinion on: Tačka 6. Report on the reviewed state of financial operations of political parties in 2019, which is the applicant: the Central Election Commission of BiH. The Constitutional Commission has not delivered its opinions on point 3. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic Safety on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is proposed by MP Damir Arnaut. For point 8. Discussing the initiative of Representative Saša Magazinović "delegated by the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to submit within three months in parliamentary procedure a legal solution introducing a mandatory medical examination for elected and appointed officials in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina that implies special testing of mental-psychological capacity to perform public functions, as well as testing of psychoactive substances." Reviewing the initiative of MPs Lepić and Baručija, which is required by the BiH Council of Ministers to adopt the Anti-Corruption Strategy for the period 2020-2020 and the Action Plan for its implementation and point 5. Considering the initiative of MPs Lepić and Baručija, which is required by the BiH Council of Ministers to submit the State Property Act to the legislative procedure within 30 days. So, from our original agenda, which you got with the call, the rest are basically two points, that's agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 24th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives and 2nd meeting. Comments on questions received. Now I'm opening a debate on this agenda. Here you go. Any suggestions, suggestions? Nikola Lovrinović, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10895	Good afternoon, everyone, nice greeting to all those present in the hall. So, as president of the HDZ Club – HNS in this House of Representatives, I am obliged to learn about our position and some other colleagues, therefore, who did not participate in the work of the Colleges in the extended composition. Namely, we are, and I believe that you believe it, a very responsible party and a very responsible club which, all the time, all of this, therefore, especially in the last few months does everything to create the conditions to be done properly, to be done as foreseen by the Rules of Procedure. I have to admit it's harder and harder to go, of course I'm sorry it's like that. We have a direct interest in Dom doing, you know what I'm saying, but it just doesn't work. We entered a session with no agenda. So, Mr. Chairman, we don't have a agenda. Therefore, the session cannot last unless there is a agenda, the agenda does not determine Parliament but the College in the extended composition. As far as I know, the agenda hasn't been established at the College in an extended composition. Therefore, we have nothing to add or subtract from the agenda, to plead on what is scheduled at the sittings, so, Parliament, because we don't actually have agendas and I don't know how you think we should continue this. I am sorry that the chairman and the College did not create the conditions for working on the Rules of Procedure. So, do whatever you want, we can't participate in this kind of work, despite saying that we're a very responsible club and that we're doing everything in our power to contribute to quality, good work, but work on the Rules of Procedure and what we're doing. I beg you, therefore, there I have suggested that the session be postponed, it is not appreciated, so, right now, colleagues and colleagues, we have no agenda, we can't sit without the agenda, we can't be here right now, I don't know by which procedure you're thinking, you have articles 70, 71, so 72. Rules of Procedure, look and see how the agenda is determined. We have entered a session without agenda and we cannot continue to work and we will not as a club in such a way participate in the work. Thank you very much, please, therefore, for taking this into account and for the College to do everything in their power to ensure the working conditions of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10896	Thank you. Representative Osmanović, please. 6 _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] And I didn't see, correcting the wrong allegations, MP Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10898	A colleague, Lovrinović, said that the extended college determines the agenda, that's correct, he just missed out on saying why today's Extended College couldn't determine the agenda, so I'm going to say it. So Mr. Lovrinović and Mrs. Krišto as members of the Extended College left the General College session before the vote, at the moment they left the session they broke down the quorum and made it impossible, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to make decisions regarding today's agenda. Among other things, this is my personal position, I believe that the reason it was on the agenda was a requirement to include a debate on the protection of the constitutional order in BiH marked through a resolution signed by a number of MPs and in which in a very precise way the latest events from the National Assembly of Republika Srpska are defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10899	The esteemed representative Alma Čolo, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10900	Thank you, Chairman, I welcome all my colleagues and colleagues. Mr Lovrinović said that he himself and his political party HDZ BiH are doing everything to make this Parliament function in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of this House. I would just like to remind myself that yesterday we had a Constitutional Commission that had no members of the HDZ at the session of that Commission, and at the session of the Commission there were a lot of materials that were supposed to be on the agenda today, and since there was no quorum, we were just Mr Safet Softić and I in front of the SNSD, no one from the SNSD, no one from the HDZ, they also disabled the work of the Constitutional Legal Commission, so that this claim, uh, is not true and is not standing what he said.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10901	Dear representative Lepić, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10902	Yeah, I totally agree with Mrs. Čolo, I thought I'd explain it too, but here's the one who got ahead of me, but the commission that was last night on the agenda was the Joint Commission on European Integration. The fact is that Mr. Lovrinović appeared as chairman, no one ever showed up, nor did his colleagues from HDZ, so Lidija Bradara and Bariša Čolak, so I don't think there's room here to talk about some responsible HDZ behavior.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10903	Thank you. Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10904	My Kolegica Čolo and my colleague Mirjana, therefore, I couldn't have done it yesterday for reasons that you might not be interested in coming to the Constitutional Law, and I think that Mrs. Krišto, but she will say to herself, had certain obligations, because yesterday was the day you know what. And so, you didn't say anything to any of your other colleagues, so your parents weren't at the Constitutional Law Department either, you just applied to us. So we had a reason why we weren't there yesterday. The lady said that I was, I was the chairman, I called a session and the consensus was on that committee decided not to come anyone, Mr. Zvizdić showed up after I think it was over and 15, but here he is not to be within the deadline that was scheduled, so, the only thing that came up was that. So, then, I confirm again what I said. And I didn't mean to say that to my colleague Magazinović, therefore, at the College in an extended composition, I didn't mean to say it, so maybe I shouldn't have been here because I repeat again, we entered a session without agenda, the College did not create the conditions for the session to be held. So, we had a college, we stayed at two points read by Mr. Zvizdić, so whether it's a bigger circus to work from those two points or not. Agenda items – answer to parliamentary questions and minutes. I suggested there, I'll say it again, so I didn't mean to talk about it here, that the session be delayed and that the material that you were going to suggest there, which came about half an hour ago, I'm not going to do it long enough, there wasn't enough time, actually one point that was proposed didn't even have any material, you know that business is not possible. This other one had some sort of material, which demanded there the serious attitudes of all clubs, all the representatives and political parties. We have told you that we are not prepared, that we suggest that the session be delayed for 10 days as long as the Rules of Procedure asks, that this material be delivered, that we be prepared for such a debate, and that we then make decisions. But you didn't appreciate it. So, do you think even then we said, do you think this is how you can get out of the situation where we've been brought in or do you think it's fueling the fire? We think it's fueling the fire. There, so, now that I'm not getting into the metrics, it's been suggested that we be the Constitutional Court ourselves, to suggest, imagine, that we shut down another home, etc. I don't think I'm elaborated right now because I didn't want to discuss it because I didn't have enough time to prepare, it came about half an hour before the College. Therefore, I do not think that the conditions have been met, that we are not discussing, that the College has not done its work, that the chair may try it, let them repeat, uh, the story in 10 days as much as the Rules of Procedure asks and that the session should be held as normal as this, and not like this. I think that I'm still staying here to do everything, and here we are at this session to say it. We couldn't have shown up. [[representative is warned on time]] Thank you very much, sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10905	Thank you. Dear Representative Borjana Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10906	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, both colleagues and colleagues, I warmly welcome you. Here is my correction of the wrong allegation regarding the allegations made by the chairman of the Constitutional Commission, Čolo, who also says Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, who says that, along the way, HDZ behaves irresponsiblely, that we do not come to session 8 of the Constitutional Commission. Yes, I didn't come to several meetings of the Constitutional Commission, including yesterday, I decide within my obligations to go to, especially when they are at the same time. So it was yesterday, so it was the last time, I didn't come out here to justify myself to anyone, every time it was neatly best when we can't come because of any other obligations, of course, which in any case sometimes and in another situation doesn't exclude our political right to our political position. That doesn't need to be anyone's burden, just like we're not burdened with the attitude you're putting out here today. A colleague of Saša Magazinović's who said they didn't have one today. Yes, it is true, we have expressed our views on the enlarged college around the points that are added. A colleague, Saša Magazinović, said that there is no time for me to give lectures at this extended college, because he is in a hurry to attend a club session and of course I am finished, I left the College in an extended composition and today I want to say about this point here, because he mentioned it not as an added point, but that we came out because he wants to place a point on the protection of the constitutional order at this House's meeting today. I don't want to convince anyone from this place how much I love BiH, she's my country and I live in it and I show it in every way, but if she came today that her constitutional order should be protected by the resolution then she's really in trouble. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10907	Thank you, colleague. Saša Magazinović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10908	So, yes, I said at the session that we didn't come to the College that you gave us a lecture and I think I made a mistake in choosing words and apologized to you for that, but it doesn't change anything in essence that you've spoken your political views for a very long time where we discussed the agenda rather than HDZ's views on a particular issue. When there is no SNSD in institutions, then HDZ is SNSD and that is, of course, your right, as you said, to a political position, but it is also our right to expose and clarify both the local public and the international community. Therefore, the right to a position is undeniable, but it is also an undisputed right of the public to know how which political actor articulates his views and the fact is that you and your colleague Lovrinović, by coming out of today's session, have brought down the quorum and made it impossible for the Extended College to make decisions to supplement the agenda, which in case you stayed different, so these are facts.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10909	Alma Čolo, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10910	Mr. Nikola Lovrinović said ours didn't come to the session of the Constitutional Commission either. I would just like to remind you that there are nine members of the Constitutional Commission 3 from Republika Srpska – 2 SNSD and Mr Dragan Mektić of the SDS and 2 HDZ. So, five of them when they don't come, we can't hold a committee session and we don't have a quorum. Ours, I don't know which are ours, have 2 members of the SDA, Mr Safet Softić and I, we were, at the previous three sessions, having a problem with HDZ, with the SNSD that I don't speak, they haven't been coming since July of the month, and HDZ has sent Mr Lovrinović, Mrs Borjana Krišto has some other obligations, 9 otherwise they act as some elite furniture in the BiH Parliament, propagators of European values. Whenever I call a session, I ask the secretary to consult all the members of the Constitutional Commission and I as someone who chaires the committee, I adapt to all the other members. So, I've never scheduled a committee session, and someone told me before that they couldn't be at the session and that despite his justification, I'd schedule a session. So, what Mrs. Krištio is saying is unwarranted, I think here they systematically block the work of the highest state legislature along with the SNSD, waiting to see what will happen about the reform of electoral legislation, as soon as it meets the demands of Dragan Čović, if it pleases him, then I believe that everyone will return to these benches. But that's my personal attitude doesn't have to be, uh, completely justified.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10911	Zukan Helez, correction of the wrong assumption.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10912	Honorable chairman, chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council, media representatives. It seems to me that we're slowly entering a scene that seems more and more difficult in 1992. I am sorry to have to say this as a state representative, but it seems to me that the HDZ is slowly joining its obstructions with the devil's game Milorad Dodik and the people gathered around him in a coalition in the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, which openly advocates separatism and secession of part of BiH. I'm just going to ask HDZ deputies and warn that it's not fair, nor is it a good game for the BiH state. I beg of you, Chairman Borjan, you said you loved the state of BiH. If you loved the state of BiH, you'd never do this. I want to remind you, this morning I read that the most people leave the BiH state are the areas where HDZ, Western Herzegovina, Canton 10 and Posavina rule. As we here obstruct the state of BiH to the peoples, the peoples, the citizens of BiH are increasingly disgusted by this policy. Three reasons are where they're going, the first reason is uncertainty. What's the message out of here today? This kind of obstruction. With this kind of obstruction, we're going to get more people out of this country. [[representative is warned on time]] I ask you, as advocates, as responsible people, as family people, to be serious, to be serious, we can all agree here in Parliament, everyone has the right to state their position and we can talk about everything, but what you do is you get into a car with some people. who are working on the head of the BiH state believe that you too will suffer eventually if that happens. [[representative is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10913	The esteemed representative of Kožul, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10914	My correction to the wrong allegation concerns the issue of committee sessions that were to be held in these two days. I was supposed to be in two sessions, and I was pleased to attend one of those sessions, the second session of the Committee on Finance and Budget, where the chair had no quorum, for the first time in seven years since I chaired this committee, and that is the fact to be asked. I'm here, for the benefit of other colleagues, not ad-homineming who wasn't at that session and it's unnecessary. 10 Likewise, colleagues Magazinović and his colleagues Helez, for fighting and for love, always need at least two, insisting on a unilateral view of the crisis in BiH, insisting on resisting the guilty, among other things in HDZ, is not a way to ensure that, when I sit down, while we are talking here, that this Parliament is working. Not only is the SNSD missing here, you see, and you are quite clear that 13 fellow MPs or MPs from Republika Srpska are not from different political parties here. The autism facing this situation is this threat to Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is not love, if love is obsessive and possessive, and there is nothing more dangerous than such love for this country. I call on you not to make any decisions, not to hold sessions without the necessary capacity, and not to make decisions that are unilateral and away from dialogue, that's not responsibility, that's not the way, and that's how we're not going to do anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10915	Thank you. Of course, non-sessions are agreeing to a blockade that is unilateral by RS lawmakers. Damir Arnaut, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10916	Thank you, Chairman. Here's how much time I had I was counting back nine sessions of the Constitutional Commission, back to October last year 2020 means more than a year ago, of which seven sessions this year and Mrs. Krišto was present at all sessions, and of the nine Mr. Lovrinović was present at eight. Since July, however, since Inzko's decision, Mrs Krišto has not attended any session of the Constitutional Commission, and three have been convened, of the three, Mr. Lovrinović stood up with the first two to break the quorum, and he never came to this third yesterday. I chaired the Constitutional Legal Commission in the last session, and I can confirm that Mrs. Krišto was truly zealous and regular at these sessions. So this isn't an anomaly, it's clear here after Ince's decision on what's going on, and my colleagues also talked about it, so I won't be long on the matter. Today, HDZ broke the quorum of the Extended College when 13 MPs from five parties – our party, the SDP, the NIP, the Independent bloc and the NES -- began to debate today's agenda to include a resolution requiring, among other things, the BiH presidency to consider disbanding the House of Nations, taking into account the SNSD and HDZ control package in that House, which is the result of the support of a coalition partner with the SDA in the selection of members of the House of Peoples, I quote from the motion for a resolution. This will be a mandatory point at the next session of the House, but the fact that HDZ broke the quorum today at the Extended College, for which reason, and together with the non-maintainment of committee sessions, we today have the agenda we have, or can be said not to have it, as we do not have ministers present from all three parties that I have just listed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10917	Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10918	My kolega Magazinović, therefore, we were just at the College in an extended composition talking about the attitudes for which we need time, you said we were... so we were just asking that we couldn't take half an hour for such things to take a stand, so of course you didn't appreciate it, and you're saying, that we are the same SNSD, and then we're also right when we say that SDP is the Bosniak party, so there's nothing else that is, that's right. Mrs. Čolo, if it's true, if we're an elite and pro-European party, and that's true, then you consider yourself to be, therefore, the owner of the state and in fact, and you're actually doing everything you can to create chaos in this country. Mr. Helez, the same thing that we went to the referendum in 01.03 and helped create this country, so we called for people to come out without it, so there wouldn't be any love, nothing you're talking about right now. So it's fair to say, in your opinion, that you, political representatives of the Croatian people, have brought us to the political margins of events in BiH, that's fair, that's fair, quite fair. The young are leaving, Mr. Helez, that's what they're leaving because it's the goal of the proboscis parties, which are the most responsible for the situation in this country. If you are proboscists, if you are those who stand for the state, you make the state stand, and do not make it disappear, and it seems to me that you are more missing, and that is what you are, and that is what you are doing. We were with you in a car, I mean with the proboscis parties we were in a car and 01.03. so here's what we came to, we don't have, we don't have parity Federation, we don't have parity two parishes, we don't have election law, you want the House of Peoples to end, so we have nothing, in political terms I'm talking. Don't bring us down to the social category, so the Croatian people and their political representatives, that's embarrassing, that's embarrassing. So if you're proboscis, then do everything you can to make this country work. The college should make the sessions right, let's do what needs to be done, what needs to be done, what needs to be done to talk. Do you think you'll be so defamation-free again... if you think you're going to go ahead, so, me, I'm sorry I don't have any more words to warn you, I still think HDZ did and does everything to normalize the situation, and I'm still thinking it, and I'm saying that we're still gonna believe it whether you believe it or not, if I'm not sorry, so here's what you're doing. That you should, so we'll see how long you'll do and what. [[representative is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10919	Dear representative Emrić, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10920	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I am really surprised by the invitation of my colleague Kožul not to hold the meetings of this distinguished House, so I ask the question – and what will we, MPs and MPs do if we do not hold the meetings of the House of Representatives? So we are elected to this House to work in the interest of BiH citizens, all BiH citizens, to sit down, to make decisions that are important for BiH's European path, this is our workplace, this hall is our workplace. And what can we do? Well, we can just call the House of Representatives meetings, so here's a call for colleagues and colleagues from other parties who aren't here today to come, so we can discuss all the issues here. This is the Dom where you need to be and he needs to discuss all the questions. Let them come, propose the agenda, we'll discuss it, look for solutions, it's a way, it's not a way of not working, it's not good, we have to work in the interest of the BiH state. And my colleague Lovrinović, who won't disappear from the BiH state, won't disappear if we work, she hasn't disappeared for a thousand years, but she won't disappear for another thousand years, except it won't be us and, most regrettablely, we're reluctantly destroying the lives of the generations that come after us. We are making it difficult for the lives of young generations with our unhappiness and 12 views that we should not do what we are chosen to do, it amazes me, and I cannot accept it, and therefore I appeal once again, I call on all those chosen on behalf of the citizens of BiH to come to this House, let them work, let them come to their workplace, that is the only way to show all the political attitudes around which we will agree and reach consensus, that is the only time, there is no other way. Work, order and discipline, colleague Lovrinoviću, and we will certainly be better off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10921	Your Honor, Agent Helez, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10922	I thank the chairman. Mr. Lovrinović, if I were you, I'd ask myself a good question and think about what I'm saying and what messages I'm sending. You've threatened the BiH state well, you've even mentioned a disappearance and it reminds me of a gentleman who has now received a life sentence thanks to such statements in the state parliament somewhere in '92. I don't think that's even correct, and I think you're a brave man. As for the SDP and what do you say, uh, we're a Bosniak party. You are most in pain with a few facts, so in the Lithuanian Canton of the SDP there are two MPs, both of them in the order of the Hrvat, HDZ now has only one, of course, in the order of the Hrvat. HDZ is an opposition, the SDP is the position in the Lithuanian Canton where Mrs. Krišto comes from. We have councilmen in Gruds, councilmen not councilmen, so where 100% of Hrvat are, and that hurts the most. However, you HDZ are increasingly like a Serbian party, you have strayed from some traditional, this, Croatian demands, you have driven voters away, you have driven the citizens of Croatia through your politics, you have become the pendant of a crazy politician, named Milorad Dodik, and you look more and more like a pro-Serbian party to me. Mr. Kožul, we will not stand by to see the BiH military split, we will not stand by to see the BiH state's payment system split, we will not calmly watch the BiH judiciary split and not count So it's our job, our mission, here you have over 60% of the people I'm convinced of. [[representative is warned on time]] Who love this country and who have no other country. [[representative is warned on time]] It's our mission to fight for this country, no one can challenge us, we'll never endanger anyone else or anyone else. And we always advocate the same rights of all people, of all citizens living in this space. [[representative is warned on time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10923	Thank you. Dear Representative Nermin Nikšić, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10924	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Therefore, it is not disputed that here each of us as a representative has the right to The attitude that we don't have to work until we're all pretty much out is that we're not going to work, because obviously we have different views on all of this. What I've come to realize is that here, 13 in this place, we're still going to have to talk openly about our things, our opinions, our thoughts about how we see this country, not to talk about how we draw these into a third entity, and in Parliament we talk about how we are for the state of BiH. It's also the right thing to want a third entity, but then it's being debated here, so let's see what's finally going to happen, how it's going to happen, and what's going to happen, but don't let's, uh, let's play now, uh, patriotism who's a bigger patriot because he came to the session today, which obviously won't have a purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10925	Predrag Kožul, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10926	My colleagues Emrić, my colleague and I, and you, an apology, have been together for seven years in this House and just to tell you that you know, and probably also you know in those seven years, there has been no session of this Parliament, no session of the commission that I have been a member of which I have not been to, and so I am working in this Parliament. When I say that today's session is not happy, and you see it, and you know, my colleague Lovrinović has talked about the formal reasons for it, and the point is that we need to look for models with respect and regardless of the political crisis that is here, we cannot call on the prosecution, the high representative and NATO forces, and we need to live and work in this country, and we need to look for models with respect and regardless of the political crisis that is here, we have to solve the political crisis, and we do not strengthen it, and that is the essence of our political thinking and otherwise here and today, and that is the responsibility that my colleague Lovrinović was talking about, and as much as you convince us that we do not love this country, that we are with these or those, we are responsible in this Parliament and in this country, it is the answer of our colleague Helez. Don't worry about those areas where the HDZ government, as you say, I'd say where HDZ is in power, visit them, and you'll see there that people live and work and have a little less trouble with politics than you think. So in these parts, people live and work and live despite the political and political situation in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10927	Dear Representative Begić, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10928	The Honorable Chairman, the chairperson, respected colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's a few things, first of all, I wouldn't want to share ourselves with people who live left or right, up or down, all of them are our people, and at least I'm personally experiencing my being very complex in both cultural and in any other way, I wouldn't want to be the first to defend anyone, anyone in this country. Now, what I've come up with, without the intention of opening up any controversy, here we've already fallen into some perhaps difficult debates here, and people what we're going to do, here I am, God, here, whoever I've met from those people who've gone, no one's driven them out of here, they've decided to leave alone, with every nice hello and nice, kind and creamy on top, asked them to come back and work here together. Here, you can ask them here now, and Mr. Radmanović, and Mrs. Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać, whoever, therefore, I met from these people I made a nice stop and asked nicely with the cream on top to come back and work together. Here's what happens if someone thinks we should go under the window and sing some serenado or write enquiries, pleas, come on and say that and let's see if that's the solution. So, I don't know which direction the discussion is going in. At the end of people, we need 14 to understand that our obligation is to be here, constitutional obligation, moral obligation, and legal, and every, and human obligation, it's democracy to talk, to discuss, to have procedures that are prescribed for God. Here among these procedures is not that the elected representative with the cream on top prays to bring his, his esteemed person to this room, but here we are. So I don't know what else we can do, rent a bus, pick up all of us, go from house to house, beg, pull people by the hand, I'm afraid it's creating an atmosphere like someone's pushing these people out of here. Let's get out of the original premise, why did people leave? For bringing The law prohibiting the denial of genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity. [[representative is warned on time]] Sometimes someone will be ashamed of it, of those who got angry about it. That's it, thank you very much. I'm sorry if I overstepped.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10929	Thank you. Dear Representative Osmanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10930	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Co-chair, colleagues and fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, media representatives, allow me to propose on behalf of the SDA MPs' Club a new item of the agenda – the current political and security situation in BiH after a unilateral attempt by the National Assembly of Republika Srpska to transfer, that is to say, the BiH state's jurisdiction to the Republika Srpska entity. I'll dati you a shorter explanation. The National Assembly of Republika Srpska at its 20th special session, held on 30.07.2011, passed the Law on the non-application of the High Representative's Decision concerning the Law on the Amendment and Completion of the Criminal Law of BiH. Then, at the 22nd special session, held on 20.10.1921, the National Assembly of Republika Srpska adopted the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Resources of Republika Srpska, which envisions the establishment of the Republika Srpska Medicines Agency, to adopt the Declaration on Constitutional Principles and four information on the transfer of competences with conclusions at the 24th special session, held on 10.12.2021. The above-listed activities of the Republika Srpska National Assembly are aimed directly at the collapse of the Dayton Peace Agreement, Annex IV, as well as Annex X, and thus attempt to bring down the constitutional order of BiH and its institutions. The blockade of state institutions by the ruling Republika Srpska entity, a threat to secessionism, which seriously threatens political stability, and thus disrupts security in BiH and the region, and the lack of a determined response by the international community requires that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives be clearly determined according to all these listed activities and offer certain conclusions and views. We have offered a few conclusions, we would like to discuss these points of the agenda as much as possible with the participation and clubs and then reach as high-quality and better conclusions as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10931	Thank you. Agent Arnaut, come in. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10932	Thank you, Chairman. Here on behalf of 13 MPs from before the various parties, which I have just listed, who have signed this proposal, I propose a new item of the agenda – Proposal for a resolution on the protection of the constitutional order of the state, constitutional order of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I will not read the resolution, I do not have enough time on this discussion, but in any case the proposed resolution has already been the subject of discussion at the extended college and among others in this Resolution, I will briefly state, the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the most strongly condemned, the full rejection of the conclusions and the Declaration of Constitutional Principles adopted at the 24th special session of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, held in 10.12.2021, the same assessment of the unconstitutional and conflicting laws of the BiH state, since the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH adopted all those laws in accordance with the constitutional and business procedures, that all those laws were voted by MPs and delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH from both sides of the BiH entities, and that they could be amended or complemented only by the same procedure as they were originally adopted in BiH. Entities have no right to unilaterally regulate legal matter that already exists at the state level. The Resolution further states that the House of Representatives values these conclusions as an attack on the constitutional order of internationally recognised BiH states, that the House of Representatives calls on the Prosecutors of BiH to respond urgently and to process those responsible, that the House of Representatives calls on the High Representative, the Council for the Implementation of Peace and the rest of the international community to act in accordance with their powers, sanctioning and suspending in the start-up activities, that the House of Representatives of BiH should consider disbanding the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, taking into account the control package that SNSD and HDZ have in the House of Peoples, which is the result of supporting the SDA coalition partner in the selection of members of the House of People, and that the House of Representatives calls on NATO forces to strengthen their military presence in BiH, particularly in the Brcko District ofBiH , given that NATO has the power to establish such strength under theSDA 's Annex1- A General Framework Agreement for Peace inBiH. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10933	Thank you. Given that there are no more notifications, we will be told about the proposed proposals for amendments and amendments to the agenda. First we declare and vote on the proposal............................................................. [[no microphone turned on]] Here you are, Nikola Lovrinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10935	Mr. Chairman, therefore, all this previous controversy and debate was probably unnecessary, but there it was, but at the beginning of that debate, I said something. Mr. Chairman, we have no agenda, we cannot supplement and modify it, as it stands in the Rules of Procedure in the articles I have said, I do not know how and 16 on which basis you will put to vote on the completion of the agenda, which agenda. The most normal thing would be to schedule this session again, so see that the working bodies determine what they are not, which was supposed to be done today, despite everything that this is, what my colleague Emrić said is our job, is our job but we have to follow the rules of the game. Don't let us turn this into some country's brig, so it seems to me like it's just worse than it's ever been before. Of course these sessions will be held without respect and the Rules of Procedure, by force, at... I don't know what I'd call it at all. So, we don't have a Mr. Chairman of the agenda, you can't complement a agenda that doesn't exist, how you're going to solve it I don't know, so the only possible way out, in my opinion, is if the session is interrupted today or I don't already know what, in fact it hasn't started, to schedule a new one when it's met, create the terms of the Rules of Procedure, nothing else, and you're supposed to be colleagues to do it, to create conditions for us to respect the Rules of Procedure. Is there a session before this, so don't say that and we failed and it worked out, but at least he respected the Rules of Procedure as much as possible, so now we're in a situation where we don't even respect the Rules of Procedure anymore. If that's the way the future works, I don't know, so I'm saying we have nothing to do with Mr. Chairman, you'd have to figure it out now.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10936	Thank you. Representative Osmanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10937	Thank you, Chairman. I would just like to briefly refer to the motion for a resolution on the protection of the constitutional order of the BiH state, which has been proposed by the many MPs here and several times reading point 5. We would like this resolution to be offered to the SDA MPs' Club as a pro-Buss political party that we would definitely sign, but we would also like to draw your attention to this point 5 that you have already read here several times, where it stands next – the House of Representatives calls on the BiH Presidency to consider disbanding the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, taking into account the control package that SNSD and HDZ have in the House of Peoples, and this is now politicalism, which is the result of the support of the SDA coalition partner in the selection of members of the House of Peoples. So dear colleagues and colleagues if we are witnessing that exactly the coalition majority of the, led by the SNSD entity Republika Srpska is blocking state institutions, then by disbanding the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, you are allowing it to consider whether it will ever appoint the Club of Serbs in the House of Peoples. You allow someone to further, legally and legitimately extend the appointment and additional obstruction of the House of Peoples if it comes to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. If you had consulted with us, we would have given you suggestions not to go this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10938	Nermin Nikšić, breach of the Rules of Procedure. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10939	Well, I wanted to check, so if we're discussing this Resolution right now, we'll have a lot to talk about when it comes to the agenda, but this Mr. Osmanović has been discussing the point of resolution that hasn't yet come to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10940	Okay. In principle, we all have a long experience here and we know how the vote will end, given the lack of entity voting and the proposed points and the remaining points of the original agenda. I thank the MPs who are here for many years, have great experience, but I have consulted with the Secretary of the House and we will work in that direction as I have been consulted. So, we plead on the proposal proposed by Mr Osmanović on behalf of the SDA Club, that is – the current political security situation in BiH after a unilateral attempt by the National Assembly of Republika Srpska to transfer the powers of the BiH state to the Republika Srpska entity as a part of the agenda. Please make a statement. Of all those present – for 20, there are none, there are no abstentions. So there's no general entity majority. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10941	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10942	We'll find him, Nikola, there's no need to lift, uh, constant anxiety, should be calmly and restrained to work on normalising the work of the House of Representatives, without any anxiety, there's no need. We had a quorum, I don't know who came out. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] So, we intend that this session will never be held, and I repeat, we know how this vote will end, right? So, since there's no quorum at this point, I'm taking a 15-minute break and I'll meet you back in 15 minutes. Of course, I realize that physically there are 25 people sitting in the O.R., we have 20 people on screens. It's a break. 18 [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10945	The breach of the Rules of Procedure referred to the voting process, when HDZ colleagues signaled that there was no quorum, and the quorum in the hall at that time was only they shut down the screens so as not to register them, and here we now see that they are not even in the hall, which is the continuity of the blockade of institutions where they appear to have joined the SNSD which continues since this morning when they left the session of the Extended College. I think this should be clearly communicated to the public, just so it's not that, if not, a sufficient number of MPs have come, of course only some of them have come in their own way boycotting the work, or members of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-12-14-0.u10946	Thank you. Since the quorum is not fulfilled at this point, and I would like to especially emphasize, of course, that there are instruments that we can show that, if someone is in an O.R. and has ruled out their display, we can either vote with raised ballots or we can, of course, vote with individual calling, so that it solves all the dilemmas that we have at this point. Here we go. Let's see if we have a quorum, please. You want to count it, pal? Okay, the quorum is filled at this point. So, we continue as I said in consultation with the secretary, we will vote on the amendments to the agenda, then the House has the right to declare the remaining points of the agenda, if possible we will continue the session, if not the session will be completed, on the continuation of this session or new session you will be adequately and timelyly informed. So we will repeat the vote on the agenda point proposed by Mr Osmanović. Please make a statement. _________(?) Can you repeat the vote? [[no microphone turned on]] Please repeat the vote. _________(?) 19 [[no microphone turned on]]
