ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9519	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 18th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. I warmly welcome all present representatives and guests. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] The absence from today's session was justified by: Vice-President Nebojša Radmanović, and representatives of Nada Mladina, Nermin Nikšić, Nenad Nešić and Mirsad Kukić. There are 33 MPs present at this time. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As indicated in the call for a session in accordance with Article 167. The Rules of Procedure at the beginning of the session, and before the debate on the agenda, MPs will be allowed to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The rules of procedure for asking parliamentary questions in oral form were submitted by the following representatives: jasmin Emrić to the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH; Nenad Nešić to the BiH Minister of Civil Affairs; Mirko Šarović to the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH; Saša Magazinović to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers; Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic to the chairman of the Council of Ministers; Aida Baručija to the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH; Edita Đapo to the foreign ministers of BiH and Branislav Borenović to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. These announcements were made in accordance with Article 168(2) of the Rules of Procedure to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and to that member of the Council of Ministers to whom the issue concerns. I would also like to remind you that a direct TV transmission of this part of the session has been provided, of course, in accordance with Article 167(1) of the Rules of Procedure. Now we can start by asking oral questions and giving answers. I give my word to President Jasmin Emrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9520	I thank the Honorable Chairman. At the 49th session of the earlier assembly of this distinguished House, which was held on 05th July 2017, a conclusion was adopted regarding the construction of a bridge that the Republic of Croatia is now building largely to join the mainland with the Peljesac peninsula, which closes the Neumski Bay and free access to BiH to the open sea. That conclusion asked the BiH Council of Ministers to deliver all agreements, contracts or other acts signed by BiH and related to the border between BiH and the Republic of Croatia, as well as to build and approve activities of the building of the Peljega Bridge. To date, as far as I know, the House of Representatives has not received the insight and consideration of the requested 2 documentation. Also, I do not know whether the Council of Ministers of BiH sent any note to the Republic of Croatia at the time, nor do I know whether the Council of Ministers led any activities to achieve mutual consent as requested in point 2 of the conclusion in question. What we all know today is that the works on the construction of the Peljega Bridge are in the final phase, that BiH has not resolved with the Republic of Croatia the border at sea, and that the priority issue of free access to the open sea, which is the right of BiH in accordance with the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, has not been resolved. Since I do not have any information as a representative of this distinguished House on the conduct of the Council of Ministers and the competent ministry in this conclusion, I am asking the question of the Chairman of the Council of Ministers – What has the Council of Ministers taken, what activities and actions have so far been carried out to implement the conclusion of the House of Representatives, issue: 01-51-15-49/17 of 05.07.2017? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9521	Thank you. I welcome the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Zoran Tegeltija, and I call for an answer. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9522	Madam Chairman, members of the working presidency, gentlemen of the Parliament, representatives of the media, fellow ministers, allow me, at the beginning of today's session, to welcome all of you and to try to answer this question, the questions that relate to the conclusion that has been made long ago and the activities that have been undertaken in that period two or three years ago. In order to be, since there are four practical questions here asked by the MP, I will try briefly to read every detail, given again... because it is a very long period of time. Based on the notice of the House of Representatives of the Council of Ministers at the 108th session discussed and adopted the Ministry of Communications and Transport report on activities related to the construction of the Pelješki Bridge. The session tasked the Ministry of Civil Affairs with asking the State Borders Commission for a full report on its work on maritime demarcation. The Ministry of Communications and Transport sent the report to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives on 25.07.2017. At the 113st session, held on 05 September 2017, the Council of Ministers discussed and adopted a supplement of the Report on activities related to the construction of the Peljega Bridge discussed at 108th session. The Ministry of Communications and Transport submitted an update to the Reports to the House of Representatives on 6 September 2017. The foreign ministry has not sent a note to the Republic of Croatia so far, because in order to do so, that is, to send it about it, it is necessary to declare the BiH presidency, according to information, there was no agreement between the BiH presidency. In addition to the Ministry of Communications and Transport, the BiH presidency, the Foreign Ministry, as well as the State Commission for Borders, was included in the issue. The ministry of communication and transport of BiH, in accordance with its responsibilities, continues to monitor the process of building a bridge on Peljesc. Thank you very much. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9523	Thank you, President, for your response. Agent, does he want to comment? Here, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9524	I thank the chairman. And given this response by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, I appreciate that it has not been sufficiently done to implement these conclusions, so I am not satisfied that the competent institutions have not approached the implementation of the conclusions, which have four points, which are linked to each other, all of which concern reaching an agreement with the Republic of Croatia on the free approach of BiH to the open sea, which should have been worked more actively. I am asking the Council of Ministers to provide me with a reply in writing, but since it expires in 122 days under the agreement to build the Pelješko Bridge, and that construction is in the final phase, I am also taking this opportunity to publicly call on the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers and the Competent Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH, and you, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, to open bilateral talks with the Republic of Croatia to reach an agreement and agreement on BiH's free access to the open sea or cross-border waters in accordance with the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea. For a short period of time, I am asking the institution to make this issue a priority in their work as of today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9525	Thank you. Next by order of questions is representative Nenad Nešić, since he justified his absence, we are going according to schedule. I give the word to MP Mirko Šarović. Here you go, counselor.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9526	Thank you, Chairman. On February 3rd, the House of Representatives reached three conclusions and related to the obligation to the Council of Ministers, and this time my question is referred to the Chair of the Council of Ministers in which I would like to ask him – Why is it not followed by the conclusions of this House of Representatives since 03 February when this House requested that within 15 days, it be written to this House for three key, important issues for the BiH economy, one refers to sanctions of the Energy Community towards BiH from the end of last year for failure to meet the conditions, you know the conditions and the question is, in fact, asked for an answer to what BiH has taken to the sanctions not and another, if sanctions have already been obtained to overcome and that BiH is not practically among the only countries that are at the level or rank of the Second Energy Package? Secondly, the second conclusion referred to meeting the EU's obligations when it comes to chicken meat and these deadlines have been extended – What has been done about it? And the third question, relating to the sanctions of the Russian Federation, that is, its competent veterinary phytosanitary services on the ban on exporting pears of grains of leprosy, peas and dispatch to this country of invalid fruit and vegetables from our country. The answer, at least I don't know that he's arrived at four appropriate times and I'm asking a question – why aren't the obligations to this House being fulfilled? If it took an extension to extend it and That's what I think. Here's the point of my question. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9527	Thank you. The President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, Mr Tegeltija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9528	Thank you very much. The question was really general and it was about the parliamentary initiative, but the question really didn't know what it was about, to check where it was at which stage it was. In response to the previous question when I read you saw how the previous Council of Ministers worked when he received initiatives from the House of Representatives, so we are doing and now, the initiative that we receive from the House of Representatives is being passed on to the institution responsible, this time it was, all these issues that are now read here are related to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and we have tasked the Ministry to prepare the answer and will be delivered to the Parliamentary Assembly. The moment the foreign trade ministry's statement is completed, it will be held at a meeting of the Council of Ministers and you will be thoroughly informed on this basis. We also need to understand that the time you set is very short, from the moment the proposal officially comes from the House of Representatives, from the moment you set up, there is no simple within 15 days possibility of putting it at the Council of Ministers' meeting, because you know the deadlines to schedule meetings of the Council of Ministers, to establish the agenda, and therefore I ask you in these initiatives to give real deadlines in which answers can be prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9529	Thank you, Council of Ministers Chairman. Representative's comet, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9530	Here, I'm going to cut my comet short, I could talk a lot longer, obviously that the Council of Ministers and the chairman, who represents him, did not respect this House and did not provide within that time-limit the information required of them. From these three questions, I'm just going to give an answer to one thing and where every detail we know, as well as one number here, and it's about chicken meat. Well, it's quite clear that you don't have solutions for accreditation of competent laboratories, you've been arguing about it for a year, and in the end, this will be done by the competent body or laboratory in Venice, not BiH, but by not answering. Answer it, but when you answer it in writing next time, then you will face the avalanche of some other questions. I wouldn't talk about these other two, because the time is really running out, and I don't want to overstep it. Thank you, persiding. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9531	Thank you very much. The next parliamentary question, representative Saša Magazinović, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9532	I thank the chairman. I welcome you and everyone present in the O.R. I have a brief question for which the chairman does not need to prepare. The question is this: Is it a shame for you to be at the head of the Council of Ministers, who, along with the others, forced people to drive 500, 700, 1000 kilometers in one day, to increase their own and their immediate chance of living in the neighborhood, instead of getting that right in their own country?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9533	Thank you very much. Council of Ministers Chairman, respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9534	Thank you very much for asking. Ton, the way of this question is for another debate. What I want to say is that I am not happy about why BiH citizens, why citizens of neighbouring countries in the region went to Serbia to vaccinate, because we did not provide enough vaccines. As far as I'm concerned, my personal responsibilities, which he's trying through the media to impose himself on me personally, my political party, that absolutely doesn't stand. In BiH at this time, 80,000 vaccines that have arrived and all these vaccines have arrived through activities carried out through joint institutions. On the other hand, Republika Srpska's government has obtained about 45,000 vaccines and donations provided for the Federation government of 10,000 vaccines, which came for the Federation of BiH from Serbia. And today we talked to the foreign minister and found that the basic problem of insufficient amounts of vaccines is the fact that pharmaceutical companies don't respect their vaccine contracts. For the hundredth time I will repeat, if necessary, BiH signed vaccine procurement contracts in September last year, before the new year we paid those vaccines and those vaccines by producers at the moment of the 1,320,000 vaccines, which were paid, delivered only 50,000 vaccines, with the announcement that there will be a delivery of vaccines, continues in April also from the Kovaks system. All that, the other thing that wasn't in the power and power of the Council of Ministers, we really couldn't do. Expectations that BiH will arrive at a certain amount of vaccines in April and late March to assume that the vaccination process is speeding up in BiH and it would be good to know really how many of these vaccines have arrived in BiH, how many citizens have been vaccinated, or how much these vaccines have been spent. I think it would be much better for all BiH citizens if they weren't engaged in criminal charges, if they weren't accusing each other but together trying to push those who don't meet their contractual obligations. I'll remind you that these companies have millions of contracts with health insurance funds and entities and cantons, but they don't want to comply with the vaccine delivery obligations. Thank you very much. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9535	Thank you very much. Representative's comment, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9536	Number one, there are no common institutions. Number two, you agreed on January 23rd to go to direct procurement, you had a press conference. Number three, do you even know what the scale of disaster is? If 93 died yesterday, today 92, to get you close to it, here in the O.R. was at the beginning 32 people, it's like three times everyone in this room dies in one day. Is it clear to you what the scales of disaster are? Do you realize that from the beginning, 6 112 people, living things, have died? Well, if we had just a minute of silence for each of them, we would have kept silent here in Parliament for more than four days, some of us out of respect, and some of you for shame, because you should have done, and you didn't make the number smaller and I'm not satisfied with the answer. I asked you, are you ashamed? And the only correct answer was to shame me. And what you said isn't the answer to my question.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9537	The next parliamentary issue comes from MP Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9538	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome all those present, and my question to the chairman of the Council of Ministers concerns the examination of diplomas in BiH institutions. Namely, my question is, therefore, concrete – Is the decision to check the diploma and if it is not why it is not? Given that this issue has been withdrawn for more than a year, this is not the first time that I have asked a question about this procedure, the parliamentary initiative was sent 24.01.2020, and then on the Constitutional Legal Commission the initiative received a positive opinion on 25.02.2020 at the House of Representatives on 26.02. 2020. To the Council of Ministers delivered, delivered the conclusion on 02.03.2020 means it has been in the Council of Ministers' procedure for more than a year. In 1606, I sent an urgent question to the State Department in 1609 and 27.11.2020, and I received an answer that the Ministry of Justice gave its opinion on the draft decision proposed by the Ministry of Civil Affairs and here it means from 27.11. At least I don't know if the decision to check the diploma in BiH institutions has been made.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9539	Thank you, counsel. The President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers' reply, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9540	Thank you very much. I'll remind you a few times we've discussed this subject, we've repeated the institution's position several times, that the Council of Ministers does not have the authority to make such a decision. Also respecting the initiative that came from the Civil Affairs Ministry's House, 7 prepared this decision and, meanwhile, obtained an opinion from the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency, the Information and Recognition Centre for Higher Education, the Ministry of Justice, the Personal Data Protection Agency and the Human Rights Institution. We are yet to receive an opinion from the Office of Law and the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, after which the ministry will refer the decision to the Council of Ministers. At this point, I want to say that I am not sure whether this decision will be supported by the Council of Ministers. I will read to you that the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, which has taken several decisions of this kind down... of different institutions, has written in its opinion – that the Council of Ministers has no legal basis, or authority to prescribe the processing of personal data of employees in BiH institutions. Therefore, the decision will be quickly proposed to the Council of Ministers, having considered all the opinions we have made, we will opt for this decision, from the experience that has taken place with the decisions that have been prepared and proposed so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9541	Thank you, President. Representative, comment on whether she wants to? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9542	Yeah, sure, I want a comment. Firstly, I would say that it is a shame that this procedure is difficult for this long and that BiH institutions, so they do not give the necessary opinions for more than a year, because this implies that either some things want to be hidden or that one part, perhaps, might already be known in advance, is not in accordance with the law. And I would remind here that, too, if there were, therefore, the answer and the opinion of the Ombudsman institution for human rights of BiH, which disproves this opinion of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, since that, too, I have provided that answer with my parliamentary question and, therefore, it literally stands in my opinion – that it must not ignore the fact that, in the case at issue, data holders are officials of public authorities, which are financed from the public budget and who, at the time of entering public service, agree to work for public good and public interest, therefore, the Ombudsman BiH is the position that public interest in such and similar cases always has an advantage over the protection of privacy, especially if a particular case is accompanied by circumstances such as non-compliance with legal obligations, the existence of any offence, judicial error, abuse of power or negligence in the exercise of official duties, and so on. So, in principle, I am not satisfied with this response, that over a year there is one draft of one decision waiting, and that we are now told that the decision will most likely not be made even though there is, therefore, an opinion, that is, the response of the BiH Ombudsman institution, which is in any case an institution that deals with human rights. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9543	Thank you. I give my word to the MPs of Aida Baručija, here are the MPs. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9544	Thank you, I welcome all present. The issue I refer to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, very briefly, concerns official information on the amount and dynamics of the arrival of vaccines.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9545	Thank you, counselor. The answer, Chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9546	Thank you very much. Facts, the Kovaks system – 1 320 000 vaccines, delivered 50,000, the next delivery announced in early May 82 400 vaccines. The Eurap Union system – 892 000 vaccines, the first delivery arrives in the second half of April, 650,000 Faiser vaccines for Western Balkan countries, with the first delivery being 140 000 vaccines. The distribution of vaccines to individual countries has not yet been defined, it is signed... individual contracts, but BiH cannot receive less than 30% of these vaccines under any criteria, that means and the delivery is continued succesively. The estimate is that in the second quarter of this system, between 120 and 150 thousand vaccines will be provided, these are all Fajzer vaccines, known at the moment, delivered at the moment. BiH has received 13,750,000 euros from the EU through this vaccine procurement system, and we will be paying vaccines to countries through which to deliver, for the Western Balkan countries, Austria. The official offer we have received and accepted is the delivery of AstraZeneka by the end of May of 380 thousand also through the European Union system from these 13,750,000 euros, of which 85% of the funds must go for vaccines, and 15 for that vaccine material and systems, cold vaccine storage systems. In addition, at this point it is... a regional initiative for the Western Balkan countries on the purchase of the vaccine, the project's holder is the Republic of Serbia. We did that when we got the offer, checked with the entities if they were interested in getting these vaccines and we got confirmation that the Federation wanted to acquire 300,000 of these vaccines, Republika Srpska 40,000 vaccines and the Brcko district of 10,000 vaccines. There are still no safe deadlines for... if the delivery of these vaccines would be binding to this joint regional procurement. What we need to know is that this delivery information is a lot of crap and that it has often happened to us that those deadlines that have confirmed each other. What I'm trying to say at this point is, once again, that by the end of March, there will be 130,000 vaccines, 50,000 Kovaks, 30,000 from Turkey and 50,000 from China, about 50,000 vaccines obtained by Republika Srpska and 10,000 Federations, donations from Serbia, totalling 190,000 vaccines by the end of March. I hope these vaccines will be readily available to BiH citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9547	I would like to thank the President very much. Does the honourable representative want to comment on the answer to? 9
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9548	I don't want to, no.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9549	Thank you very much. Let's move on, I'm giving my word to the honourable representative, Editi Đapo, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9550	Thank you, esteemed chairman. My respect for my colleagues and colleagues, as well as for the representatives of the Council of Ministers. My question has been addressed to Minister Turković, who, I believe, since the beginning of the appointment, has not attended a single session of the BiH Parliament, which in fact shows her relationship with this highest House and the highest body, and thus directly to the citizens of BiH, because apparently Minister Turković does not want to answer here in front of us. Given that the highest mortality was caused by COVID-19 in BiH compared to the entire region, the whole of Europe, and beyond, and that we are the only country receiving vaccines, especially the Federation space in such a way that, because of the failure to obtain a million, let's say, million vaccines found by our ambassador to Russia, due to the failure of Minister Turković to Bosanac and Hercegovac, especially space... The Federations are the most endangered at this point. The government of the Federation of BiH is now very difficult, i.e. by no means, as BiH citizens, cannot compensate for the lost time and opportunity we had to obtain the necessary vaccines for our citizens in such a short period of time. ponukati all of this, I will ask Minister Turković, although she is not here to answer, but I am interested – Why didn't you take all the necessary activities when we got a letter from the BiH ambassador to Russia, about the possibilities of direct procurement of the vaccine, in the sense that you should urgently send this memo to the resolution ministries and urinate several times until you get a certain answer, and I suppose it wasn't hard to call your colleague in civil affairs, so see what needs both the Federation and the Republika Srpska and the Brcko District? I wonder – Why didn't you force this point to be on the agenda of the Council of Ministers, given that you're the chairman of the Council of Ministers and you're acting the greatest function, is it, one Bošnjak, why didn't you deliver this act to the Co-ordination Body for Natural and Other Accidents? Which has now been completely shut down, and we witnessed at the beginning of the pandemic, while Minister Radončić led this body, that all the needs of the whole BiH were co-ordinated, as well as the measures needed to bring them to the whole area of BiH. I hope to get an answer from Minister Turković. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9551	Thank you, Representative Đapo. The BiH Foreign Minister's reply, but I can see it is not present here, so the chairman of the Council of Ministers, whether someone in front of the Council of Ministers wants to give an answer or we'll leave for it. Okay, thank you. 10 Commissioner's comment, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9552	The chairman, so here's what to comment on rather than what I said at the beginning. Minister Turković is now more important to visit Arab countries and arrange investment for BiH instead of visiting directly vaccine producers and contracts to get in line as soon as possible to obtain vaccines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9553	Thank you very much. The next parliamentary issue, MP Branislav Borenović, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9554	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. My question is the chairman of the Council of Ministers, which concerns the obligation that Parliament made on December 09th last year. We then made a majority vote to oblige the Council of Ministers of BiH to prepare within 30 days a draft law amending or supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, which would reduce the VAT rate to all services provided in tourism, catering and passenger traffic from 17% to 5% with a limited duration and that this lower rate for the most affected industries applies until 31.12.2022. You had an obligation to submit within 30 days the amendments and additions of this Act to Parliament which made such a decision, which he obliged you in the Council of Ministers to reduce the VAT rate from 17% to 5% for, I repeat, hospitality, tourism and passenger traffic. These are the most affected business branches of Kovidom-19, and we have witnessed in the last few weeks how dramatic the consequences of their business are. Four months of ignoring Parliament's decision, four months of not delivering a legal solution, and I will not say at all whether anyone in the Council of Ministers, who deals with it, is ashamed, ashamed, I am talking here about the obligation and your responsibility to do this.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9555	I'd like to thank the representative. The answer, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9556	Thank you very much for asking. First, the adoption procedure, amendments and additions or the new VAT Act and all the so-called Indirect taxes are clearly precise and defined that the change, the amendment of the Law must take place from the Directorate for indirect taxation and that without it the Council of Ministers cannot determine the proposal itself. The procedure includes, of course, commissions or committees, as they are called, finance and economics, either one... or only for finance and entities and the BiH Parliament. In view of this, we forwarded this initiative to the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board, the Direct Taxation Authority informed us a few days ago about its position on this initiative, namely on a proposal to amend the VAT Act. This position on behalf of the Management Board has been prepared by the Directorate for indirect taxation, this attitude is on five 11 pages, and therefore it is very extensive and it will be delivered to the House of Representatives, so that you all know that attitude, and I will read only two sentences in this opinion that reflect why the Management Board considers that the conditions for amending the Law are not created in this way that you have proposed. Amendments and additions, I quote, amendments and additions to the law in this way could result in inconceivable consequences for all levels of government in BiH, the VAT as an indirect tax in no country, in which there is, is used to overcome the crisis, is finished quote. These are the views of those who can launch an initiative to amend this Law, except for those procedures that MPs themselves can make. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9557	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Representative's comment, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9558	For me, that answer, if correct, is embarrassing to the administration of indirect taxation. This is about only 1% of VAT revenues in one year, given the size of business in these sectors that work annually, it's about about 50 million conversion marks maximum, which would remain in the tourism, catering and passenger traffic sector, and that when translated into every institution in this country, it's somewhere less than 1% of their income. If everyone gave up one car and the purchases would do a big thing for these people who were terribly affected by the pandemic COVID-19, and it's a particularly incorrect statement that no one has done it, Germany did it first and reduced the VAT rate for all branches of the economy, and it's for a period that's even longer than that we're burning and some other countries, and really give us finally a written answer and come to this Parliament, bring the law and then knock it down, do what you want with your congregation majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9559	I'd like to thank the representative. With this, we've exhausted the representation issues. Now we're moving on to the agenda. As regards the change of the session agenda, I would like to mention the following, the following are added to the agenda: point 5. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act (P.Z.E.I.). Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, shortened procedure (first reading). Point 16. The appointment of two representatives of the academic community and one representative of the NGO sector to the Committee for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and co-ordination of the fight against corruption, the submiter of the Report on the establishment of a ranking of successful candidates: the temporary joint commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of two representatives of the academic community and one representative of the 12 non-governmental sectors to the Committee for the Selection and Monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption, of 17. 3. 2021. Point 17. Selection of seven members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance, submitr of the Report on the establishment of a proposal for a candidate ranking: Temporary Joint Commission of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to conduct the selection procedure of seven members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance, material of 24. 3. 2021. Point 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Cross-border Cooperation Programme – Montenegro 2018. – 2020 for 2019, between the European Union, represented by the European Commission, and Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the European Integration Directorate, and the Government of Montenegro, a material of 22. 3. 2021. Point 23. Giving consent to the ratification of Amendment No 2 to the Finance Treaty concluded between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank, on 19 May 2014 in Sarajevo and 5 June 2014, with subsequent amendments (the Finance Agreement) – Distribution of Electricity in BiH/B, material of 22 June 2014 3. 2021. Point 24. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Agricultural Development Fund (IFAD) for the Agricultural Development and Rural Enterprises (READP), a material of 22. 3. 2021. The following points have been removed from the earlier agenda at the request of the Joint Committee on Human Rights: Point 14. Proposal for a strategy for the reception and integration of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina returning to Bosnia and Herzegovina under the readmission agreement and the 2020 Action Plan. – 2023, applicant: BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, material of 24. 2. 2021st and Point 20. A review of the representative's initiative from the SDA Club, which reads: "You are asked by the BiH Minister of Human Rights and Refugee Miloš Lučić to dismiss the head of the Office of Human Rights and Refugee Mladen Božović and to report to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House on measures taken within 15 days of the adoption of this initiative", a material of 16. 2. 2021. At the request of the Joint Defence and Security Committee of BiH, the earlier agenda was removed: Point 12. Information on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2018 and 2019, applicant: BiH Ministry of Security, material from 1. 3. 2021. Point 19. A review of the SDA MP's initiative, which reads: "We propose that the BiH Defence Ministry for the Parliamentary House of BiH prepare a report on the working conditions of members of the Armed Forces, including their official, personal, family and overall social standards, and possibly propose measures to improve the standards of members of the Armed Forces of BiH", material of 16. 2. 2021 and 13 Point 21. A review of the Aida Baručija parliamentary initiative, Branislav Borenović, Dženan Đonlagić, Edita Đapo, Jasmin Emrić, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, Saša Magazinović and Jasmin Emrić, twice stands here, "which is required that the task force for the fight against human trafficking and organised illegal immigration, through the BiH Ministry of Security and the Council of Ministers, submits a report to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on work for the period 2018. – 2020, material of 24. 2. 2021. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Representative Dženan Đonlagić reported for the debate, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9560	I thank the chairman. Good afternoon, everyone. I welcome everyone present. In the procedure, I submitted a proposal to supplement and amend the 18th session of the House of Representatives, scheduled for today 30.03, which reads: Making a decision on the election and entry into office and termination of the function of a member of the Central Election Commission. Namely, what prompted us to make this request? First, the legal basis on which this proposal is based is located in two members of the BiH Election Law, that is Article 2.5(2) and Article (6) of the second sentence, and in relation to Article 2(6)a(2). Namely, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives was in the same situation as 12 months ago. The House of Representatives, according to the above-mentioned members of the Electoral Law, elects the necessary candidate, and in the event that the list of candidates, which is carried out by the commission, is not delivered to the BiH House of Representatives 30 days before the end of the term of office of the member for which the election is being held. And now, in the case of the election of a member of the Central Election Commission, it's about the exact same situation this House was in 12 months ago. Namely, one member of the CEC stands out in less than 48 hours, and a list of successful candidates has not yet been delivered to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Therefore, it is more than clear that the legal deadline of 30 days before the end of the term of office to submit a list of candidates has not been respected. Accordingly, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives has a legal basis to act, and directly elects a member of the CEC of BiH from the Hrvat in this particular case. In the end, I would say, not only does it act, but the House of Representatives now has the obligation to return all members of the CEC of BiH, under the circumstances, to legal frameworks from the scope of the appointment, because in less than 48 hours, this very important state institution will not be in full capacity, nor in the full composition of the action. Big responsibility for that, actually, carry the appointed commission which is somewhere in the process, and the House of Representatives has an obligation to, in accordance with the Election Law in this particular case, allow the CEC to carry out its legal affairs in full and in full capacity. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9561	Thank you. Next up for discussion, representative Nenad Stevandić, please welcome representative. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9562	Thank you very much. What is the main theme, which is being imposed these days, is about vaccination and increasing numbers and infected and increasing mortality, which we are discussing and where we very often have no measure, or patience to objectively view, I would accordingly, on the basis of Article 71. The Rules of Procedure have asked the Council of Ministers and the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices to put in place a new item on the agenda today – the conclusion that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives has asked the Council of Ministers and the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices to urgently, and for a maximum period of seven days from the date of adoption of this Decision, the draft amending and supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of BiH, as well as the adoption of appropriate amendments to the Regulation on the procedure and way of issuing a marketing authorisation, with the aim of enabling vaccines, i.e. immunisation of Coronal Virus, the use of which has previously been approved by the Agency for Medicinal Products of the European Union (EMA) or the competent institutions of neighbouring countries bordering with BiH, in order to enable those immunisation funds to be used immediately in the territory of BiH, with the opinion that such amendments to be registered and to the said and to the said Law and to be announced by the deadline of the deadline of the deadline of the deadline of the deadline of the deadline of the amendment. In an explanation, there should be no big analyst and see what kind of problems we are in, and I will remind you that my initiative, which you once rejected, was then adopted where we waited almost a month, about the search, which my colleague Zvizdić also referred to, that the Agency is using Article 38 concerning intervention imports, and this member has been used for all these vaccines that have now come to BiH. It's a shame we rejected it because it was suggested by some Nešo, Mirso, or I don't know why, and I'm asking you now not to make that mistake again. Why do I think this is important? So, BiH borders Serbia, Croatia and Montenegro, there is a growing number of people with two citizenships, the largest number of family, friendly ties, and these are about the population with the same and hello groups and that I am not now entering genetics, but to say that the means of immunisation in these countries, so Croatia, Serbia-Montenegro are the essential means that BiH is already using, especially for these vaccines being carried out in Serbia. In view of the fact that these funds are already registered in BiH during the pandemic, we will shorten the useful time for using these immunisation funds, and every citizen of BiH will get these funds much earlier, as the vaccine registration process itself takes a very long time. We respected colleagues, as you know, apply many European conventions directly, and they do not relate directly to saving lives. It would be our turn to do this as well in the sense that we apply directly everything that is registered in the European Union and in the countries that we, which are borderline to us. And on the other hand, if you didn't think that it would lose any sovereignty of Bosnia or Herzegovina, this would be worth it while the pandemic is going on, and the same laws would remain in force that are related to the so-called pandemic. Control series. So every batch of vaccines that comes back to the Agency for verification, but we're going to reduce useful time, or prevent a waste of time, as we've already had a waste of time by unnecessary delays around the intervention imports. I would also like to urge you to understand that what I wrote for the pandemic's Medicines Agency is such that the Agency had to change a lot of its rules, thus avoiding both affairs and silver raspberries and similar affairs. We were supposed to suggest that, here I repeated several times, no one heard me, nor did the gentlemen at the Council of Ministers, that when emergency situations are changed the rules of the Agency for Medicinal Products, so that the urgency of the process of protective equipment, gloves, respirators and all of this would be done faster, by the way, and this law would, as long as the pandemic, which I suggest, regulate these two things. So, directly this registration, i.e. the opinion of registered immunisation funds, 15 vaccines from the EU and countries that are borderline with BiH, and also the obligation for the Medicines Agency to change, let's say, many related, which are necessary for faster and more transient supply of equipment, medicinal products during the pandemic of the coronary virus. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9563	Thank you, counsel. Next to discuss the agenda, MP Dragan Mektić reported, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9564	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I may, in some ways, be bored that here at the third session I insist on some things, I simply feel that I have an obligation, and that we all need to have a certain responsibility. Since 2018, how the elections were and how this Parliament was established, we have not had any serious working session of this Parliament. We did not have any point in having a serious agenda, that there are certain reforms, which are also in the interest of the citizens of BiH, certain reforms that lead to the harmonisation of our laws with European standards, so if you want the directive, we are dealing with trivial, unnecessary things, information, conclusions, proposals of a variety, which essentially mean nothing. Look at the parliaments in the environment, in Croatia every day, and Parliament, you have certain activities in parliament, you can see it on another or whatever program that directly transmits it. Look at the Republic of Serbia, you can also see activities on the second programme every day. See if you also want the Republika Srpska Parliament to meet for five, six days and discuss key matters, adopt laws etc. It's just that we're here talking about whether someone's ashamed or not. Is there something embarrassing? So, again, I propose that such a session be suspended, including this 18th session of the House of Representatives, that the session be continued when conditions are obtained to find reform laws and topics relevant for the resolution of EU integration and key problems of our citizens, and that by then, since there is no such meeting, MPs give up receipts or salaries until we begin to meet the key, key competences that are in the interest of this country. Now just before, Mr. Magazinović asked if you were ashamed and this, that. And are we ashamed of what we're doing, that we're not doing anything, that we're getting paid and that we have only one day in a month? The salary is our five thousand, separate life, accommodation costs six thousand, doing privileges, and people don't know if, are you aware of the citizens, the citizens are unhappy and please as a College, don't take this off. He's not going to the vote, I'm sorry, just to call the Rules of Procedure in which he says [[the speaker is warned on time]] that the Rules of Procedure have the right to propose amendments to the agenda [[the speaker is warned on time]] agenda, which Parliament is obliged to declare [[the speaker is warned on time]] put it on the agenda and let Parliament declare itself. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9565	Thank you, counsel. Representative Branislav Borenović, debate, please welcome MP. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9566	Thank you. With regard to this proposal for a conclusion on some changes to the legal solutions and those members and those regulations that we already have, under Article 38, we have a legal solution in which the authorisation at the time of the pandemic is immediately issued, and we have a situation that when the vaccine comes, the only quality control in the laboratory has to go through and it has to be done, because it can happen that the vaccine that has the approval and European, the European Medicines Agency, loses some value in transport, travels for a long time, has not enough temperature to guard itself, it has to pass that day, two, as far as we have seen, notice that it lasts for a maximum of two days in the official laboratories of our Medicines Agency. So don't let us play people here some things that can be very dangerous. If we're going to let the vaccine come, fall out of the sky and immediately go into use without any control, then we're making some kind of dangerous precedent. If that is the intention, although I have heard that the intention is to remain in control as it has been, then the key question is asked – what is the meaning of this conclusion? If we already have solutions that prescribe that permission is obtained immediately and that, as far as we can see, it takes a day, two maximum
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9567	Dear Representative, do you have, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, a proposal to amend, or supplement the agenda specifically?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9568	I have the right to say my position on the proposed agenda that is new.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9569	No discussion, you can only answer for the replica, you've reported through the, uh, debate on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9570	Here, I'll take the line then.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9571	There you go. Representative Nenad Stevandić, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9572	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9573	You're giving up, aren't you?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9574	17 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9575	Representative Branislav Borenović, correction of the wrong allegation, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9576	To repeat, so this conclusion is essentially already in place in the legal solution, we do. I don't mind saying it again, but there's one thing that's very interesting, it says "put it into use right now". It is very important that before being put into use immediately, only to pass that rabbit quality control exclusively because the vaccine or any vaccine will come with some means of transport to BiH and may lose to quality. As far as I'm concerned, it's not an intention to do it, but then there's a question of what we're getting from this conclusion, unless we want to, I don't know, promote it in some very specific way, I don't mind, I don't mind, if you want to end quality control. Let's end it and, I don't mind, but who's going to suffer the consequences, if a vaccine that may sometimes travel for five days or seven days, comes into this country and loses to that quality that it has and we make an unwanted consequence of people's health... asks questions that are completely logical, justified. We have a member of the 38th who prescribed that the Agency's director could right away, and it does, in the event of a pandemic, put into use some medicine, in this case a vaccine. We have some labs to do, I don't see the need, but if you think I don't mind, just make it clear to me if, in that case, whether the vaccine will go through the lab, the authorized laboratory will just test the substance whether it fits what is, of course, in the permission of the European Medicines Agency and, of course, the regulators in the environment, I don't mind, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9577	Representative Nenad Stevandić, correction of the wrong allegation, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9578	I really don't know why my colleague Borenović ever showed up at all, and I said in a decade that every medicine, the vaccine, that comes to BiH, has to go through the quality control of the series, and that's what I said in a decade, and here I am saying again. But I'm telling you about the waste of useful registration time, who's going to think ahead, in this vaccine race, maybe tomorrow there will be limited imports to countries that haven't registered that vaccine, if we have a process to recognise registration from Serbia, Croatia, Montenegro and the European Union, then we're ahead. Or maybe we'll defend, I don't know any party colleagues or anything else, come into a position tomorrow to wait, as we've been waiting for, to register the vaccine, and it will normally be used in Serbia, Croatia, Montenegro and then re-emerge on someone else's guilt. So, the intention is not to avoid control, I'm a doctor, I'm getting ready, I said five times, every medicine that enters BiH... it has to go through control and these drugs that I've been using for hundreds of years, cardiologically, and whenever a new series comes into control, it goes into the competent lab, that's, that's, that's the Father, the Holy Scriptures, the Alphabet, so it can't do without it and it's not the topic of this, the theme is that we don't waste useful time. I don't understand at all why someone who's heard what I've said is making any problem about the best possible, the noblest intentions that speak about equality in BiH, about equality with the region, about the speed of immunisation that will reduce our disease rate, about reducing mortality rates, about making the economy more forward and faster, about restoring GDP to some normal, to say, this amount or normal fall, because we are currently the last. I don't understand why we're making a problem out of everything and why we don't see what it's all about, whether we should have a two plus two four multiplication table here, divide every MP to see if it's really 2+2=4 to check on the computer. Please, don't play with things, ignorance doesn't justify things. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9579	Thank you, counsel. Branislav Borenović, correction of the wrong allegations, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9580	Well, I really don't know what you're changing when we have it all. Well, you heard the Chairman's Council of Ministers, that there wasn't a single problem for this vaccine that came in, that they were going into use, and that in the very... shortest time possible, nothing of this will help, so don't let me talk now about what your intention is. What is your intention here to suggest something we already have, except for the need to introduce yourself as the savior of the people in this country, but we have it, man, I don't know what you're doing when we have it all and now some game of words, and the law has signed what you're proposing. The rulebook prescribed what you're proposing, I mean, I don't know what you want, what? Here's the vaccine registered in two days, it's registered, it's approved for import in two days – what's the problem? You want to go in in a day? Well, we'll have to cancel the lab then, maybe within the hour, you'll suggest. But there's no need for people to outsmart us here about something they already have, and we've heard from the competent people in this country's institutions that there's no problem, that the laws aren't a problem, the problem is how to get the vaccine, how to buy and deliver in time, to get to the customs terminal, whether at the airport one, the other, the third, whether at the border crossing one, the second, the third, that's the biggest problem. Once she gets to the customs terminal under the applicable legal regulations, as far as I can tell, she'll be in service within two days. What are you laughing at, laughing? Come on, tell me you don't want to, let's say, what you want in that party prey to catch up to the Medicines Agency, I know what your goal is and your intention is to do about it, then.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9581	Representative Nenad Stevandić, correction of the wrong allegation, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9582	Like I said, ignorance doesn't justify it. None of these vaccines that entered BiH, and respected counterpart Borenović, you see, have been registered. Registration, now you've been saying that it's registered, so I didn't see that anyone can beat up so much nonsense and say things that are unacceptable logically, morally, legally, none of them are registered, temporary imports are related to imports of unregistered funds to BiH. I have very reasonablely expressed concern that tomorrow you may not even be able to get a vaccine that wasn't registered in BiH and tried to skip what this one is, not to wait for registration. So the basic concepts are registered and unregistered in BiH. Temporary imports or intervention imports, Article 38 of which we discussed, are related to unregistered drugs, immunisation products. Only a complete ignorant woman can discuss the terms that are mutually excluded, what was imported by intervention would not even be imported by intervention if it were registered. It is impossible to register in such a way that something temporarily imported and registered, no, would not be called temporary or intervention imports. I, I don't care about the parties, I don't care who's director of the Agency, this is about the BiH Parliament and the Council of Ministers, you can love whoever you want the official, to defend him, this is about a purely noble intention to consider all immunisation funds registered in Serbia, Croatia, Montenegro and the EU It has nothing to do with politics. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9583	Representative Branislav Borenović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, please welcome the MP. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9584	You have heard a few words that are really offensive and that are a classic violation of the Rules of Procedure, I have not said a word to you, Mr. Stevandić, but when you want to say something about registration, then put the word registration in this conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9585	Your Honor, I'd like you to tell me what injuries they're getting hurt on.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9586	Put it on and it'll be completely different.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9587	Your Honor. Thank you very much. At this point, we have exhausted the discussions on the amendments and additions to the agenda of today's session, and we follow the order of applications after the statement. The first to propose changes to today's agenda today's session was a proposal by MP Dženan Đonlagić. The proposal is – Making a decision on the election and entry into office and termination of the post of member of the Central Election Commission of BiH. Here we have neither a proposal for a solution nor a proposal for a decision on appointing, a sentence stands – I ask you to submit that proposal to the Secretariat and to all MPs as well as an appropriate decision. Here, it's not business-based in some way, it's justified that we plead, but it's not made in the form that's listed here at least. I ask the MPs to make a statement on the proposal by representative Dženan Đonlagić to include himself in today's agenda – Decision making on the election and entry into office and termination of the post of member of the Central Election Commission of BiH. Of the 37 present – for 10, against 16, abstentioned 11. There's no general majority. I agree that the proposal by Representative Dženan Đonlagić for the inclusion of the agenda item – Making a decision on the election and entry into office and the termination of the role of the Central Election Commission member of BiH does not have a general majority. We move on to proposal two, representative of Nenad Stevandić. It has also been done in business, but we have had this practice so far, so we have acted accordingly and we have pleaded on the proposals of the conclusions, including in this case that the adoption of a conclusion which – the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH – is required by the Council of Ministers and the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of BiH to be made urgently and for a maximum period of seven days from the date of adoption of this conclusion, the drafting of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, by means of an urgent procedure, to make the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of BiH, as well as to adopt appropriate amendments to the Regulation in the procedure and the way in which the authorisation of the medicinal product to be placed on the market with the aim of enabling the vaccine against the Coron virus (COVID-19) whose use was previously approved by the European Medicines Agency or the competent institutions of neighbouring countries can be put into use and on the territory of BiH, such changes and supplementing the said law and the law to the end of the Regulation. 20 Please state the proposal for a conclusion on the agenda of today's session. Of the 37 present – for 16, versus 9, abstentioned 12. There is a general, but there is no entity majority in the Federation entity. Since we do not have colleagues, we cannot even make an agreement, this proposal remains for one of the next sessions. We have a proposal from MP Dragan Mektić, who proposes that the 18th session of the BiH Parliamentary Parliament House be suspended, that the session be continued when the conditions are met and that reform laws continue with the working day, which is important to the EU's declaration, integration and key problems of our citizens, and that by then MPs give up their pay, because we do not meet our parliamentary obligations. I apologize for this reading, it's written and copied, so you can't actually see it, it's in the manuscript. I would like to say that this session is scheduled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and there is no legal or commercial basis for us to plead on such a proposal. So at this point I find that, that today's session, the 18th session of the House, has the agenda that you received in the call with the read, with the proposals that we have spoken about, but have not received the necessary majority, means only the agenda that you received with the call. Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 17th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives; 2. Comments on questions received; 3. Decision confirming the replacement of the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees of Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue 01,02-34-7-629/21 of 15. 3. 2021; 4. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on criminal proceedings before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, No: 01,02-02-1-478/21 of 23. 2. 2021. (first reading); 5. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Procurement (P.Z.E.I.). Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1-495/21 of 16. 3. 2021, shortened procedure (first reading); 6. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of Representative Jasmin Emrić on the report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "Possibilities for effective management of interventions in case of accidental pollution of the sea", applicant: Office for the Review of BiH institutions, which reads: "The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly asks the Council of Ministers for the first regular session of the Representative's House to provide information on the implementation of point 4. Declarations ('The Official Messenger of BiH', No. 68/17) inviting the BiH Presidency and the Council of Ministers of BiH to take all necessary legal actions by diplomatic means towards the Republic of Croatia or the European Union with regard to the protection of the sovereign rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina at sea, the adoption of a special law on the sea of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the launch of legal procedures towards international judicial posts, as well as information on all the activities and events launched in connection with the implementation of the Points Declaration from the Jurisdiction of the Council of Ministers of BiH", issue: 01.01/4-16-1-2553/20 of 26. 2. 2021; 21 7. Report by the College on an effort to reach agreement on the report on the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2020, issue: 05/1-50-15-190/21 of 26. 2. In the United States, the United States of America, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, and the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the Kingdom, the United Kingdom, and the United Kingdom, and the United Kingdom. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of the MPs: Predrag Kojović, Aida Baručija, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepić and Damir Arnaut on the report on the work of the Committee on Appeals of the citizens of the Parliamentary Assembly for 2020, which reads: "It is necessary for the BiH Ministry of Security to prepare within 30 days the information and plan for the establishment of a functional video surveillance system at all border crossings", issue: 05/2-50-15-356/21 of 26. 2. 2021; 9. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal of MP Mirko Šarović, who reads: "The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives has asked the Council of Ministers to provide within seven days detailed information on the reasons why Bosnia and Herzegovina has lost the status of the preferential state in exporting goods to the United States and since 1 January must pay full customs duties, and the measures taken by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH and the Council of Ministers to keep Bosnia and Herzegovina involved in the mechanism (GSP) of the beneficiary countries which enables them to promote the improvement of exports and production through customs relief, with the need to meet certain criteria when it comes to the origin of goods", number: 01-50-1514/21 of 26. 2. 2021; 10. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on Vlatko Glavaš' parliamentary initiative, which reads: "By the great success of Bosnia and Herzegovina's basketball players and the Eurobusket after 22 years, I propose to the competent ministry and the BiH Council of Ministers that this success adequately valorises", issue: 01-50-1-330/21 of 26. 2. 2021; 11. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on MP Damir Arnaut's parliamentary initiative "which is required by the Council of Ministers of BiH to establish the Denis Mrnjavac award in memory of him and all other girls and young victims of violence. The award would be awarded every year by the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees or by the Council of Ministers of BiH, depending on the decision of the BiH Council of Ministers, and in accordance with the procedure prescribed by it, one student/students of both primary and secondary schools in Bosnia and Herzegovina could nominate students and pupils who promote tolerance, human and non-violent behaviour. The award should consist of a sculpture or other appropriate subject, a special recognition in the form of a charter, as well as an appropriate recognition for the school of the awarded student/student, and all details are closely prescribed by the Council of Ministers of BiH," issue: 01-50-1 331/21 of 26. 2. 2021; 12. Report on the work of the Independent Commission to monitor the conditions of stay in institutions, conduct and respect for human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed in the criminal proceedings of the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, foreign courts for acts provided for by the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2020, issue: 05/6-50-15-487/21 of 24. 2. 2021; 13. Information from the Public Procurement Agency BiH, issue: 01-50-1-513/21, link: 01-50-1-15-17/21 of 3. 3. 2021, and Information from the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of BiH, issue: 01-50-1-513/21, link: 01-50-1-15-17/21 of 5. 3. 2021. (at the conclusion of the House of Representatives from the 17th session, held on 25th) 2. 2021.; 14. A priority plan for parliaments in BiH to speed up the European integration process, number: 01,02-05-1-494/21 of 26. 2. 2021; 22.15. The appointment of one member of the Office for the Review of Appeals in Sarajevo and five members of the Office for the Review of Appeals in Banja Luka and Mostar, the applicant of the Report on the designation of the list of successful candidates: the temporary joint commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of five members of the branch offices of the Office for the Review of Appeals in Banja Luka and Mostar and one member of the Office for the Review of Appeals in Sarajevo, No: 01,02-50-16-279-21 of 12. 3. 2021; 16. The appointment of two representatives of the academic community and one representative of the NGO sector to the Committee for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and co-ordination of the fight against corruption, the applicant of the Report on the establishment of a ranking of successful candidates: the interim joint commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of two representatives of the academic community and one representative of the NGO in the Committee for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the Fight against Corruption, No.: 01.02-50-16-157-6,5/21 of 17. 3. 2021; 17. Selection of seven members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance, submitr of the Report on the establishment of a proposal for a ranking list of candidates: Temporary joint commission of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to conduct the selection procedure of seven members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency, issue: 01,02-50-16-192-5,221 of 24. 3. 2021; 18. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group for the preparation of the amendment and addition of the election legislation of BiH, Proposer: Joint College of both homes, issue: 01,02-07-4-649/21 of 17. 3. 2021; 19. Considering the parliamentary initiative of Zukan Helez "delegating the BiH Council of Ministers to deliver at least one law to the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives and to include it in the first April session, and to deliver at least one law from the 14 priorities set by the European Commission to the BiH authorities by the end of the current year, issue: 01-50-1415/21 of 16. 2. 2021; 20. By applying a multi-phase programme approach between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IPA) No 01,02-21-1-526/21 of 26. 2. 2021; 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the Finance Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank of Corridor Vc "Medakovo-Poprikushe", number: 01,02-21-1-545/21 of 3. 3. 2021; 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Cross-border Cooperation Programme – Montenegro 2018-2020 for 2019, between the European Union, represented by the European Commission, and Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the European Integration Directorate, and the Government of Montenegro, issue: 01,02-21-1-679/21 of 22. 3. 2021; 23. Granting approval for ratification of Amendment No 2 to the Finance Treaty concluded between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank, on 19 May 2014 in Sarajevo and 5 June 2014, in Luxembourg, with subsequent amendments (the Finance Treaty) – Electricity Distribution in BiH/B (Fi 83.108 – SERAPIS – 2010 – 0562), issue: 01.02-21-1-680/21 of 22. 3. 2021; 24. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Agricultural Development Fund (IFAD) for Project 23 Agricultural Development and Rural Enterprises (READP), No: 01,02-21-1-681/21 of 22. 3. 2021. We're going over the agenda. At this point, she would give a break, because this session was approved by the Office of Public Health of Canton of Sarajevo to hold a session with respect to all epidemiological measures, and in some ways it was agreed yesterday at the College in an extended composition, that after an hour or an hour and a half we would take a break from half an hour to make these rooms airy, or airy. So we'll continue the seat in half an hour. [[PAUZA]] Dear MPs and MPs at this point we have a quorum, we can proceed with the session. Representative Dragan Mektić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9589	Thank you. I call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure on the basis of Article 72. Rules on the work of the House of Representatives. When it came to me, my proposal to supplement the agenda, you took it off or didn't let the House plead, and now I'm going to read Article 72. – If no amendments to the agenda have been proposed, the House is considered to have adopted them, in the event that the proposed amendments to the agenda and after MPs have expressed their views on this House of Vote proposal on each proposed amendment. Therefore, there is no exception here and therefore about mine, about my addition to the agenda, which is particularly explained, this House was supposed to vote. The order Galsa which MPs proposed changes is said to be used by Galsa. So this is about flagrant, obvious, so I don't know how to say, what way to break this House's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9590	Thank you very much. I referirati to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure, Your Honor, you have proposed the point in which you wrote, that you propose to terminate the session, you did not suggest a item on the agenda. This session is scheduled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and there are no other business provisions that speak about the way it works and ceases, or interrupts this session in such a way as you have suggested. So, this proposal of yours has no basis in the Rules of Procedure, and that's why it was my position as chairman, along with my fellow deputy, not to declare such points, because they have no business basis, and I ask you not to abuse business provisions. 24 Let’s move on, let’s move on to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 17th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina You have received a record – does it have any comments on the record? I don't see any reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. Comments on answers received to parliamentary questions
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9593	Thank you. I took advantage of the opportunity as an MP at the House of Representatives to ask two questions, one to the Central Election Commission, and the other to the BiH Prosecutor's Office concerning identified irregularities in the maintenance of the Local Elections in 2020 in the primary election unit Doboj, and I have received a response from the Central Election Commission who, for the first time, did something or 25 did something that was unusual in the previous period, in previous councils, by official duty, brought a criminal application to the D.A.'s Office in Dobo against members of election committees and people who held those shameful elections in the city on 15 November. When the re-election identified a huge difference in results, some fifteen thousand votes were found to have gone to one party, SNSD and their candidates, which is an irrefutable fact. Therefore, theft has been established, electoral corruption has been established and the CEC has finally taken advantage of its ability to submit, under its official duty, an application that would determine the liability involved in the criminal offence of the abuse of voting law under Article 219. The penal code of the Republika Srpska and the whole chapter, which treats all the electoral fraud, for which even prison sentences are scheduled for up to five years. It is the application with which the lists of members of the electoral committees for, with 89 minutes on the work of the electoral committees have been submitted, and the responsibility of the electoral administration in Doboj is also now determined. This is of capital value for the electoral process in general throughout the country, because on this example, if there is endurance and consistency, it will finally determine the scales of the electoral robbery, which does not correspond to anyone who wants to do his job fairly and honestly. Whoever came to this Parliament or any parliament in electoral theft, he cannot honestly and responsibly do his job, he can't, because he has entered the institutions by corruption and he can only survive in these institutions, and therefore I want to stress this, in particular, that as an MP, as an MP, but also as a man, I will insist that this be brought to an end, so let the court find that they are not guilty, let them determine something that is amazing, but let them also determine the fact that it has shown on the results that it has been put in for one level, for the non-member some 14, 15 thousand votes and for the parliamentary lists of some 16, 17 thousand votes, and that exclusively for one political party – SNSD. Whoever did this must have some responsibility. And I end up with something that's a potential danger, and I want to connect it to the state of justice. The CEC did it as prescribed, the local authority for these electoral fraud is the Doboy judiciary, very controversial and I want to say it here in front of you all, to draw attention, because I think in this process only the public can protect us and preserve us and this insistence is for a fair way of establishing order in this country, it must go through the public. Justice in Doboj, about 12 years ago, freed the man who killed the vice president of Doboj Municipality's Parliament, who only gave him the ban on taking a gun for six months, and that same gun was returned to him after six months. You know this well from your colleagues from the SDS, the president of your City Committee was killed in 2019, so that after seven months, the Justice Department in Doboj would deliver a liberating verdict for the man who committed the murder and returned the gun to him after six months, because he was incalculable then, and then he was accounting after six months. I want to say it because that's the only way we can insist that the judicial institutions and the micro-level realize that we're monitoring their work and we're going to follow their work very carefully how they're going to treat these things, because if they did, then you can imagine what they're willing to do when it comes to electoral fraud. I say this as one example that we may have forgotten in the sea of these bad, negative things that are happening once again, we will continue to insist, at least when it comes to this Parliament club, to establish a mechanism, to get to the truth and justice, and in these cases that are so evident, so obvious that no one, no one else, can ignore or deny them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9594	Thank you. Dear colleague Borjana Krišto, comment on the response delivered. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9595	Thank you, dear colleague. Here is my question also addressed to the Central Election Commission of BiH, written through, and the answer I received from the institution, which was written on four pages, contains actually everything but not an answer to what I asked. My answer was – what they did on the subject of the article, specifically, 2.9. and 3.6. BiH Election Law? And let me remind you that Article 2.9.4. and Article 3.6. The BiH Electoral Law, which says that the Central Election Commission of BiH is responsible for the accuracy, urgency and overall integrity of the Central Election List, and in accordance with Article 3.5 (9) of the BiH Election Law, the Central Election Commission is obliged to request access and insight into documents relating to residence applications. Given this fact that the Central Electoral List for the Local Elections in Mostar in 2020 significantly deviated from the August 2020 preliminary voter list, which I referred to in the Central Election Commission clearly states that they are giving me answers to what they specifically took on the basis of the legal provisions, which I stated at the beginning, in order to protect the integrity of the electoral process, prevented a brutal violation of the electoral will of Mostar's inhabitants, which should certainly be both the legal obligation and the responsibility of such a single body. In light of the fact that the members of the Central Election Commission were elected at the session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH House of Representatives on the proposal of political parties, not through public and transparent procedures, as prescribed by the Election Law and regulations, then I am not surprised by one such response, and even more by their inaction that nishita is not taken to protect the integrity of the electoral process and the protection of the electoral will of Mostar residents in the Local elections in December 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9596	Representative Alma Čolo, comment on the answer received.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9597	Thank you very much. I welcome all my colleagues and colleagues and representatives of the Council of Ministers. I have received an answer to two questions, one concerns the creation of a law on the protection of torture victims and the conduct of BiH under the UN Committee's decisions against torture, and on the basis of claims made by victims who suffered rapes during the '92 war in BiH. '95. A year. In response to the Minister of Human Rights, whose shift we will discuss today, it says that information is being prepared and that the information is waiting for answers from certain institutions at both entity and state level and when information is made that it will be delivered to the Council of Ministers, and that, after reviewing the Council of Ministers within 90 days, the Ministry will propose a plan of measures and activities to implement the decisions of the UN Committee. Meanwhile, the draft law on the protection of torture victims has been removed from the Council of Ministers' work programme this year. 27 I come to the conclusion that it is pointless to ask the Council of Ministers anything, because in the second answer, I have been informed by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations that they cannot take appropriate action because the Minister of Finance has for a year not given an opinion on a particular initiative launched by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. The right to tell you, I don't know if there's anything we as MPs can do with these parliamentary issues and with the parliamentary initiative if we come across such answers by the executive authority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9598	Thank you, Your Honor. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Before we leave, we move to item 3 of today's agenda, in accordance with Article 27(f) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, limit the duration of the debate to all remaining points for five minutes. Moving to point three, Ad. 3. Decision confirming the replacement of the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees of Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue 01,02-34-7-629/21 of 15. 3. 2021. President of the BiH Council of Ministers in accordance with Article 15 The BiH Council of Ministers Act of 15.03.2021 provided the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH with a decision to replace BiH's BiH Minister of Human Rights and Refugees, Mr Miloš Lučić. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I remind you of the provisions of Article 160. The Rules of Procedure which are prescribed that the motion for the replacement of ministers and deputy ministers should be included in the agenda of the House's meeting no later than 15 days from the day the proposal was received by the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. In accordance with Article 161(1) of the Rules of Procedure, the President of the Council of Ministers shall have the right to explain his initiative at the House meeting after which the debate is opened. I call on the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers to explain his decision if there is any need.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9600	28 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9601	There's no need. Thank you very much. I am opening a debate on the Decision to replace the BiH Minister of Human Rights and Refugees, Mr Miloš Lučić. I don't see any complaints. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. In accordance with Article 161(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the Minister or alternate whose replacement is proposed shall have the right to contact the House. If the minister, I don't see that there is. After the debate, then, we will approach the vote on the Decision to confirm the replacement of the BiH Minister of Human Rights and Refugees. Please make a statement. Of the 34 present – 20 for, no, no, abstention 14. There's _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I'm asking you to repeat the vote. Of the 34 present – for 21, there are no abstentions 13. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I agree that we have accepted the decision to confirm the replacement of the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees, Mr Miloš Lučić. Moving to point four, Ad. 4. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on criminal proceedings before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, No: 01,02-02-1-478/21 of 23. 2. 2021. (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9605	Thank you, Chairman. First of all, I would like to welcome you, the Vice-President, colleagues and fellow Members of the Council of Ministers. The adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Procurement is, as we know, one of the priorities BiH needs to meet in its movement towards euro integration. The basic objectives of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Procurement are in part, i.e. gradually aligns with EU-integration Directives on public procurement, Directive 2014/24, 2014/25. Under two, improving existing solutions in the Public Procurement Act and three removing technical deficiencies in the applicable law. In particular, significant standards of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Procurement are introduced, these amendments introduce a significantly wider set of exemptions from the application of the Law on Public Procurement, the process of insight into offers, further professionalisation of contract bodies, the introduction of public procurement officers, the prior market verification by contracting authorities is introduced, the division of procurement cases is introduced to lots with the aim of stimulating small and medium-sized enterprises to participate in public procurement procedures, the full transparency of public procurement in BiH is introduced, e.g. publication of the procurement plan on the public procurement portal, direct agreements on the public procurement portal, etc. New anti-corruption provisions are introduced, e.g. reformed disqualification based on conflicts of interest and others. An adequate basis is being created for further development of electronic public procurement, full digitisation of public procurement, and ultimately there are assumptions for full compliance with EU directives in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9606	Thank you, counsel. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. 30 We move to point six, Ad. Six. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of Representative Jasmin Emrić on the report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "Possibilities for effective management of interventions in case of accidental pollution of the sea", applicant: Office for the Review of BiH institutions, which reads: "The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly asks the Council of Ministers for the first regular session of the Representative's House to provide information on the implementation of point 4. Declarations ('The Official Messenger of BiH', No. 68/17) inviting the BiH Presidency and the Council of Ministers of BiH to take all necessary legal actions by diplomatic means towards the Republic of Croatia or the European Union with regard to the protection of the sovereign rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina at sea, the adoption of a special law on the sea of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the launch of legal procedures towards international judicial posts, as well as information on all the activities and events launched in connection with the implementation of the Points Declaration from the Jurisdiction of the Council of Ministers of BiH", issue: 01.01/4-16-1-553/20 of 26. 2. 2021. After last session of the House did not require an entity majority in the first round of voting, the House College as a committee failed to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Emrić. You received a report from the commission, the debate was closed, and we remain to declare later in the second round of voting on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Emrić. Moving to point seven, Ad. Seven. Report by the College on an effort to reach agreement on the report on the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2020, issue: 05/1-50-15-190/21 of 26. 2. 2021.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9617	Thank you. You were just a moment ago, the Honorable Chairman, when you spoke about the Central Election Commission disputed her legitimacy by saying that it was a political appointment, and you will see when it comes to the source of members of this Office's review of the appeal that it is also clean, classical, political appointment. Look only at the members of the committee who have elected, so you will see that they are representatives from the political parties that make up the position here in this House and I do not know what makes any difference. This competition and this election is pure crime, and if it has any rule of law in this country here, it would have to be the members of this committee's criminal response and if no one else is going to have to deliver this to the prosecution and the judicial institutions to investigate this, and for that I'm going to state now a few reasons, so you'll see if this is even normal what this commission was doing. First, on January 04, 2021, you opened a competition and set conditions for five members in Mostar, five members in Banja Luka and one in Sarajevo, only six months, and set certain conditions. Just six months before the election, a number of members in Sarajevo were selected and conditions were completely different, not the same conditions for the same jobs. So how is it possible when the law prescribed the terms? And one, one person complained, or initiated an administrative dispute, complained to the commission, the commission didn't want to take her application into consideration at all, simply ignored, the person launched a administrative dispute with the BiH Court of Justice, and my Bog, we'll see how this ends. But how come the Commission's right not to respond to the request, how come the Commission's right not to answer that person when she objected to the terms of the competition? But with us, anything can, anything can, everything is allowed. To be even more flagrant, to be everything in full, to say so, to a criminalized sense – what's going on? A number of candidates apply for both Mostar and Banja Luka and Sarajevo. And watch what the commission does now. Calls, it seems to me, twenty-one who would now, not matter what date, are now inviting all candidates to interview and with each candidate do only one interview, just one interview, no matter what they've applied to three positions. And that wouldn't be controversial, but when you give the grades, look at what's going on, here's just a few examples, Larisa 35 Demirović was scored for Sarajevo with 46.6 points, for Mostar 38.6 points, and for Mostar 38.6 points, on the same basis, based on the same interview. So how is that possible? Same conditions of competition, one interview for Sarajevo 46.6 points, for Mostar 38.6 points. Why? I know why, to give her the first position in Sarajevo and to be kicked out of competition in Mostar. Destan Hodžić in Sarajevo gets 40.1 points, and in Banja Luka 37, and in Mostar, 37.5 for one single interview, for all three positions. Ilija Ignjatić on one, I only know for which place, 43.1 points, and on the other, for the second city 38.5 points. Tomislav Ćužić Banja Luka 47 points, Mostar 43 points. Alma Salkić-Salkić-Mijić in one 45 for one place, for the other 40.1 and for the third 41.3 Come on, please give this all the time you want, so this is terrible, this is a crime unseen, so this is a crime of people based on one single interview for three different points. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And since I see you interrupting me, he won't let me, and I'll give you a little more
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9618	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9619	which the candidate had won the same number of points for all positions, that out of 17 members per cent Republika Srpska belonged to or Srbin six positions, and so it was in the previous term, six Bošnjak, six Srbin, five Hrvat. And now in this change at the expense of Srbin, Srbin have five, the other two nations have six, but that, I'm not sure I agree with math, this, Then it's 16, but I attribute it to the SNSD's soul because it's passed out, agreed to reduce one position to the Serbian people's account. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9620	Thank you, counsel. Snježana Novaković-Novaković-Bursać, correction of the wrong allegations, please welcome MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9621	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Mektić doesn't do math, he doesn't do law reading, he doesn't have the imagination of crime and crime, it seems he's full of thought, but that's his problem. So, Mr. Mektić, the law clearly states about public procurement which national structure must be and you counted in that one out of the others. Secondly, what you are falsely ill prepared by your, er, those who wrote to you, this one representative who comes from the order of the others, or a member of the commission, in the law says that once elected from the territory of Republika Srpska, and in the second round is elected from the Federation. In the last term, the fact that you consider him a Srbin was, in fact, a representative of the Serbian Democratic Party so it was the same for you, was that sixth, so there were not six Srbin, but there were six from Republika Srpska, with that one in the order of the others, that was falsely stated. You misrepresented and related to the interview. The interview was held in specific conditions due to the pandemic of the coronary virus, but does not mean that people are not interviewed for every position they run for. You also made a mistake, the selection committee of those members was not obliged to enter the evaluations of legality, constitutionality and whatever, 36 of what some members complained about, the Interim Commission for Selection and designation had the precise tasks set out by the Decision on appointing, and ours was not to answer, nor can we, nor should we have referred to any allegations and complaints. You've made a lot of mistakes here, in any case, it's only about what some people, uh, obviously have prepared for you, losing their positions on that committee, but my Bog, he's right, and you're really not going to do math, or reading the law, or anything else, I repeat, is your problem again.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9622	Thank you, counsel. Representative Dragan Mektić, correction of the wrong allegations, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9623	Look, me, you see me, in essence, absolutely not interested in who it was, or who it is now, and I don't know what these were, and I don't know what's going to happen now, but it's not true that they're interviewed for Banja Luka, for Sarajevo, for Mostar, that's confirmed by the candidates, the candidates got up with the lawsuits at the BiH Administrative Court, and eventually you'll see how it ends. One interview was for all three cities, with you giving different grades. Don't deceive the public here, don't lead us astray, they have candidates, and this is the story of the candidates. And why would the candidates, if not, get up with an administrative lawsuit at the BiH Court?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9624	Thank you, counsel. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong allegation, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9625	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I welcome all my colleagues and colleagues, for the first time today I'm reporting to all the others present in the hall. So, just this last line you said, Mr. Mektić, I am alluding to what Mr. Mektić said, the correction of the incorrect quote refers to his words, namely the last sentence you said, he says – why would he go to court? Well, because the procedure is supposed to, because we have a procedure. At the point of appointment of the Electoral Central Commission, therefore, you were the proposing point, we had no résumé, we had no list, we had nothing to talk about. Now you're talking, here's the criteria and the interview and everything, so you're talking, rightly, you have your own attitude about it and it's okay and you're saying that criminal acts have been done. That's when criminal acts were committed in Parliament, we unlawfully appointed the Central Election Commission, against the law. And what is called in Parliament, you call it a political appointment, whatever you want. So now you're discussing the details, you see, it's procedure, and the court is procedure, and we didn't have anything at the time, we got names just out of the sleeve, there was no list, there was no procedure, we didn't know who people were, and we didn't have the procedure, so you weren't taking people off the list, you were taking people from the sleeves, you were out of the sleeves that you wanted today, which is what some colleagues were trying to do today. Please conduct the procedure so that Parliament may, if the commission does not deliver its names, take people from the list and appoint them. Was there any list then, was there... was there any criteria, was there any interviews, was there anything? There was nothing and you're saying it wasn't illegal, it was totally illegal and it was unfortunately 37 made in Parliament, and this is what people did, and the court should tell its own if someone filed a complaint, so it's procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9626	Thank you. Representative Dragan Mektić, correction of the wrong allegations, you have the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9627	Mr. Lovrenović, Lovrinović, excuse me, I apologize, I apologize once again, you now try to combine two things that are by no means identical. It was conducted here under the law of procedure and you saw which, which incriminations were committed in the course of this procedure itself. And Mr. Đonlagić seems to me to be on the agenda or wherever he spoke, that members of the CEC must implement the procedure and deliver the list of candidates to the House of Representatives to choose 30 days before the end of the term of office. This has not been chosen, otherwise the Paralament election, it has not been delivered within 30 days before the election, and Parliament has chosen legitimately, legally and ultimately, if you think that something is disputed or disputed, I have nothing against it to elect the BiH Court of Justice, so if the Court annuls it as a person of some legitimacy that we will all accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9628	Representative Snježana Novaković-Novaković-Bursać, correction of the wrong allegation, you have the word representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9629	Mr. Mektić, you have no right to judge what was incriminating, which was not incriminating in the commission's work. Not a single thing, I've taxed what you misrepresented in your presentation, twice you used a false quote, nothing you're not a word we've said, nor Mr. Lovrinović, you've denied, and please the chairman's guilty quote serves to correct what someone has said wrong. You're trying to keep all the powers, that is, the ones who write to you, and they're falsely writing to you, or they don't write to you until the end of that message that you're reading, meaning that you try to devalue every process where people from the SDS come out here and they came here, that's really your right, but you're not and I'm not letting you impose any incrimination or anything else, because you simply don't have any proof, you don't have it, you don't have it, or you don't bring it out, or you're trying it. If anyone has a suspicion or a need to check the procedure before the court, etc. Bog, he's got every right to do it. You can neither, nor by what criteria, be the protector of any right. On the contrary, the action, the work results, the political results, what is it that gives you the right to hold lectures here for us and to incriminate the commission who has done her own job, who had six members, this or that? I don't allow it, and in that sense it was my fault. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9630	Thank you very much. Please don't throw away. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong allegation. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9631	Well, Mr. Mektić, therefore, my colleague, I thought after today's debates on the agenda that you wouldn't even participate in this pointless session, therefore, and in this pointless Parliament, but you seem to be interested in it. But then I'm correcting you again, then what you're talking about, the election of the Central Election Commission, those six members about a year ago, so there was no Mr. List, there was no résumé, there were no people's names, there was nothing, like you're discussing now, there was nothing, you're referring to the court now. So, I agree that it wasn't delivered in time, but Parliament had to take these people off the list, meet the members of Parliament that we vote on, what these people were doing before, but you told us like that, so that one was there, that one was there, so we learned something during the session. Is that a procedure? It's not a procedure, it's not a procedure and it's illegally done. So, says the law, that if, if Bog did not give, something happened to someone from the Central Election Commission, Bog did not, therefore, change it from the list. What list, what list does it change it from? There is no list, there is nothing, the commission has not finished its work, there I agree with you, but therefore no decision should have been made, the commission should be warned, insisted that a list be delivered, if not then requested a list which the commission did not provide, and not so, it was just like that. So you say court, so here and now let him go to court, it's procedure, at least procedure respected here, I'm not saying anything is right or wrong, but here let the court say so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9632	Thank you. Representative Dragan Mektić, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9633	Look, this has nothing to do with the agenda, this isn't in line with the agenda, someone keeps trying.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9634	Please, please, counselor, refer to which provision of the Rules of Procedure has been broken.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9635	I can't ask now, if I have to, I'll look.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9636	You can't, I'm taking away your word, you're misusing business regulations.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9637	Well, don't take my word for it, so let me find it in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9638	I take away your word because you have misused the business order, violation of the Rules of Procedure, we return
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9639	Well, you can't behave like that... 39
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9640	We're going back to the debate. Please let us be
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9641	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9642	This was the correction of the wrong quote, you spent, you did, you said, I asked if you had a concrete article, you said you couldn't wait, you don't know. We're going back to the debate, I've taken away your word from you in accordance with the Rules of Procedure at the moment.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9643	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9644	Representative Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepić, debate, please welcome representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9645	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9646	Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9647	I, I mean, I don't know why we're even here discussing the election of a member of the Central Election Commission, it's not the agenda, but here's fellow Mektić just didn't remember to push the right button, because there's a non-compliance of the agenda, there's the possibility of discussing it, that's the point. And I have answered the word and I hope that the MPs have read the e-mail that we have all received from our official e-mail addresses, although here the chairman claims that many MPs do not use official e-mails, I hope that at least most or one number of them have read the e-mail delivered to us about this procedure, and I am responsible for saying that not even the last time we discussed the election of members of the Board of Appeals has been respected by the provision of Article 93. The law on public procurement, but here's what some other epilogue is likely to have. What I also saw and reading this e-mail, and looking at, means, the competitions that were called last year and now, I have seen certain shortcomings, or differences, and so in the contest of 25.06.2020, there is no Law on Appoints at all in the preamble, but only Article 93 is stated. The law on public procurement, and then all of a sudden in a competition that was called on 04.01. the Law on Public Names is also mentioned, I don't know why. Also in this e-mail that we received, it was indeed correctly established that there is no point methodology, nor the documentation required to prove that someone from certain areas is an expert, so we really don't know on the basis of which the document is someone, it has been found to be a fortune teller from certain areas. Working experience doesn't necessarily mean that someone and an expert in a particular area, and there are, therefore, 40 certainly those who possess certain certificates, documents that could be proven, but here we can also see from this, so let's not say the objection, but the warnings of certain shortcomings in the procedure, so we see that there are, so those who can prove to their own documents, but we don't know whether it's being scored, how it's being scored and how someone is, so, characterized at all as an expert. So, I'm going to suggest one conclusion here, and although I know I'm probably not going to find approval, because I didn't come across the last time I made it clear that the procedure was carried out under Article 93. The law on public procurement and that some old regulation on systematization has been taken into account, but somehow most of them always prevail, especially when it comes to these appointments, therefore, regardless of our arguments, but I will suggest the conclusion: That the Commission for the Implementation of this procedure is manifested according to the e-mails that all MPs received from these discussions at the session before we make the final decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9648	Thank you, counsel. Dragan Mektić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9649	If you are already acting the way you behave here, not to say that we are at a private meeting, Article 77 of the Rules, Posvlonik of Procedure, pardons, Rules of Procedure – An MP or another participant in the debate can only talk about the issue being discussed in accordance with the established agenda, I hope it is clear that if there is not anything between the lines on your part again, if he steps away from the agenda of the House, we have seen how you warned him, the MP of the respected Lovrinović, if he does not follow the agenda after this warning, chairing the dom... deny him the right to speak. Now, if it wasn't clear here now this Rules of Procedure, then nothing will be clear to us here, and you're taking away my word, and you're not taking away an MP who abuses the agenda and detached it from the agenda. Article 77 Rules of Procedure, if I have to, do I have time to read it again? So, the poslanik or other participant in the debate can only talk about the issue discussed in accordance with the established agenda, if he departs from the agenda of the Chairman of the House, he warns him, if he does not follow the agenda after this warning, chairing the House deny him the right to speak. Can I read it one more time? So come on, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9650	Advocacy
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9651	So you're making a joke out of this house. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9652	Representative, MP, we do not make a joke everyone has an obligation, each representative, including the chairman, to behave in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Representatives, and in this case I find that you have misused the business provision, because the provision to which someone should be referred is the provision of Article 76(2) in which he says – The MP may request a word to correct, in his view, a guilty statement which may be the cause of the misunderstanding or which seeks an explanation. The President of the House gives him his word after the representative, whose statement caused the need for an explanation, completes his presentation. The correction of the quote, i.e. an explanation, may take up to two minutes and may not be used more than twice for one item of the agenda. All the debates, I hope you understand, were caused by your debate and referred to the corrections of the wrong allegations, there is nothing in that chairman but the provision of this article and I warn you once again that you have misused the business provision. Representative Damir Arnaut, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9653	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9654	I took your word for the abuse of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9655	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9656	Representative Damir Arnaut. Please, counselor, behave in accordance and responsibly, you didn't, you didn't get the word, you didn't get the word, please behave responsibly. Agent Arnat, you have your word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9657	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9658	That's what you said, counselor, and I think this House expects an apology from you, because nobody's crazy here, these are elected representatives by the peoples and citizens of BiH,
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9659	42 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9660	Please, I've found that you've said it here and you're being warned that no, you don't have the right words until the end of the session, with these insults you've made. You didn't get the word, I'm telling you one more time. Agent Arnaut, we apologize to you, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9661	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9662	The chair may not be able to intervene, but when someone is called upon to harm the Rules of Procedure, you can only decide on the justification of this objection, is it justified or not justified, and not sanction someone because they say the Rules of Procedure is injured.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9663	Representative Arnaut, you've been given the word for debate, not to interpret the Rules of Procedure at this time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9664	Chairman, I'm gonna ask for a break before it's time to take a break, so don't test me. Look, here's the thing, when it comes to the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9665	You just have, all you have is the right to do.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9666	Don't get in my word, if you want to answer the phone, come out for the pay phone. Article 30. This is now a debate, Article 30.St. (3), paragraph (2) says, talks about the ethnic representation in committees, so I am talking about a commission formed by this House to conduct this, or both homes, to carry out the procedure of appointments that are now at this point in the agenda and Article 30 (2) very clearly prescribes – that 2/3 of all commissions, permanent and temporary, come from the territory of the Federation, and 1/3 from the territory of Republika Srpska. The Commission that selected these people is composed of three members from the Federation and three members from Republika Srpska, so half of them, and this is the seventh or eighth commission, I have asked the Secretariat and received a reply, which is not formed in accordance with Article 30(2) when it comes to entity representation, and I have repeatedly warned of this, including when forming this neighbourhood. So since you insist on continuing this practice, I'm only interested in how long it will continue and whether it will stop. So, the Rules of Procedure are very clear, 2/3 from the Federation, 1/3 from Republika Srpska, and I do not know why I, who are here 43 reasons, appoints commissions that violate this very clear principle, which has never violated this House before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9667	I'd like to thank the representative. No more logged in on this agenda item. Moving to point 16. Ad. 16. The appointment of two representatives of the academic community and one representative of the NGO sector to the Committee for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and co-ordination of the fight against corruption, the submiter of the Report on the establishment of a ranking of successful candidates: the interim joint commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of two representatives of the academic community and one representative of the NGO in the Committee for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption, No: 01,02-50-16-157-6,5/21 of 17. 3. 2021. The temporary joint committee carried out the procedure and submitted a report on the establishment of a ranking of successful candidates for the appointment of two representatives of the academic community and one representative of the NGO sector to the Committee for the Selection and Monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and co-ordination of the fight against corruption. For members of the Committee for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of Combating Corruption as representatives of the academic community are proposed: Amina Hadžibegić-Bicciato and Darko Radić. For a member of the Committee for the Election and Monitoring of the work of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption as a representative of the NGO sector, Ivan Ćubela was proposed. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Agent Zukan Helez, you have the word, counsel, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9669	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Co-chairing, members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. I'd like to ask myself, uh, here you are, College, so here we are representatives, you said representatives of the academic community, have we defined who these people are, what is an academic community? We all know about what that would mean, but I'm interested primarily in the sea of these private colleges, universities, accredited, unaccredited, what would they be and who would be representatives of the academic community? Now, look, here's how this goes, or how it's done, or how it's done, I suggest we define in the future who would be representatives of the academic community. Did a representative of the academic community who skipped regular high school, then skip regular university schooling, come in 50 years to a doctorate, could he also be a representative of the academic community? And BiH is full of such scientific workers, full of such representatives of the academic community, with all the respect of those 44 people who are congratulatingly doing all this and who are truly and truly representatives of the academic community. This was just one serious question, so we don't, that in these, in these important commissions, in committees that decide on people who will manage the processes in BiH so that we don't get to decide again by some people who have wrongly come to some titles, here's just one thing as a warning. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9670	Thank you, Your Honor. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point 17. Ad. 17. Selection of seven members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance, submitr of the Report on the establishment of a proposal for a ranking of candidates: Temporary joint commission of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to conduct the selection procedure of seven members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency, issue: 01,02-50-16-192-5,221 of 24. 3. 2021 The temporary joint committee carried out the procedure and submitted a report on the determination of the candidate-list proposal. For members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance are proposed: Kodrić Kodric, Suad Kunusić, Lucijana Boban, Zorana Štaka, Nedeljko Stanković, Dino Mujkić and Marko Odak. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point 18. Ad. 18. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group for the preparation of the amendment and addition of the election legislation of BiH, Proposer: Joint College of both homes, issue: 01,02-07-4-649/21 of 17. 3. 2021.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9673	Thank you, Chairman. The proposal concludes that these members, from the House of Peoples of Three Members and three members of the Council of Ministers, are elected from the House of Ministers, from the moment it was first adopted in BiH in this House. The election law since 2001 has been amended twenty times. The last 20 amendments concerned the conduct of elections in Mostar, and were not done by an inter-resor working group, in almost all previous processes of amending electoral legislation, these processes were led by an inter-resor working group, which was done by representatives of both homes, the Council of Ministers and the Central Election Commission, as the bodies implementing the elections and the best knowledge of the election process in BiH, know all the shortcomings and shortcomings in the practice and implementation of elections in BiH itself, and I think that the only expert body involved in the elections in BiH and as such should be involved in the work of this Interresor Working Group. However, I have been told that there has been no agreement at the Expansive College that the members of the CEC enter into the membership of this Interresor Working Group, although this Itnerresor Working Group, as far as I know, is formed on the initiative and on the basis of a letter from the OSCE, the European Commission, the Office of the High Representative and the American Embassy, and in that letter, says that Parliament needs to form an interresor working group, under which I mean that members of the CEC will not only be consulted as necessary, as indicated here, but also be together with MPs and delegates and members of the Council of Ministers active participants in the process of amending the Election Law. These are some of my remarks, but apparently there's no deal and I'm not going to propose an amendment to the conclusion. Another point, as far as the work of this Interresor Working Group is concerned, this Parliament is tasking us to do something, and nothing in that conclusion stands in what way, how much, and what we should do. So believe me, as someone who is proposed in this Interresor Working Group, I don't even know what my task is, is, and what's the rest of my colleagues' task, is to bring our electoral system in line with the European Court of Human Rights rulings, with the rulings of the Constitutional Court of BiH, with the recommendations of the Group of States against Corruption, acting at the Council of Europe, with the opinion of the Venice Commission, with the opinion of the ODIR, the OSCE Department of Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, or is it our job to do what we think we need? So I think that in this conclusion we should have written what we should have done, and I think we need to bring the electoral legislation into line with everything I've said before. Since, here, I see no consensus that the members of the CEC are to enter into the membership of this Interressor Working Group, because someone is objecting that the selection of CEC members is not done in a legitimate manner and anyone who objectes should have initiated an adequate judicial procedure, has a Court of BiH, has a Constitutional Court, so that we know whether this Parliament violated the Constitution and the laws of this country when it appointed members of the CEC. I, as someone over 30 years old, am ashamed of me more and say, 35 I am dealing with the law, I think I did not violate as an individual, but here we see someone, this one, initiate, means that the judicial institutions of this country check the legality of the decision taken in this Parliament. And I agree with Mr. Mektić, whoever thinks the CEC election isn't legal, should have been a problem. I will propose an amendment to this conclusion, but not in the direction of CEC members, because here I see that no one will vote for it or at least those who make up the majority of this Parliament, I will propose that Article 2 be changed and read – that the Interresor Working Group, except for these members of three who come from the three ruling political parties in BiH, including my political party, is the representatives of all Members' clubs in this House of Representatives, and from the House of Peoples and three members of the Council of Ministers. 46 It is eight clubs we have here in the House of Representatives and three clubs of the people in the House of Peoples, it is 11 and three members of the Council of Ministers that is 14. I propose this because I think the election process is important to all of us, important to all BiH citizens and I think we must bear responsibility all and that everyone's opinion and who isn't only in the parties that make up power at BiH level would be welcome. but which are part of the opposition, and in addition, Mr Špirić's statement yesterday at a conference on election legislation, in which he said [[the speaker is warned on time]] He thinks they need opposition representatives to enter this task force. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9674	Thank you very much. Representative Saša Magazinović, debate, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9675	Thank you. By the end of my discussion, Čolo has approved me and I find it extremely positive that finally after, I don't know, a few months of non-transparent conduct of the negotiations behind closed doors on the election law, someone from the ruling parties stands up and says, people here need to include everyone, because this is neither SDAs, HDZ and SNSD law, but the law of the BiH state that will be adopted, if adopted in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and which should, whose process of change should be conducted transparently with the full involvement of the opposition, but also the public. There's no reason for them, those Sutler dinners, to go out without a statement. I will especially say something about the role of the international community. The same international community said very loudly, that CEC members should be part of this process, so when they took them off their little fingernails in the House of Peoples, and then they suggested the same thing here and then they shut up. So it seems that more important form than essence, it is more important to say that the CEC should be, than to insist on doing so. The key question here is, how long has it been since the negotiations, will someone please brief us on something? We see that these negotiations are happening, but they don't happen here, in this house we need to negotiate the Election Law, not in the pubs and residences. And I am very angry with the representatives of the international community who have been Balkanised, who are telling us how to be transparent and to decide in institutions, and they are recently an example of non-transparentity and the extraction of the process outside the institutions. That same Satler is now visiting the opposition's representatives to try to convince them, like you are important, we will include you and us, here's what you think, etc. And it doesn't go through that story here anymore. We remember the very good role of the Eurap Commission here and when it comes to the Coordination Mechanism, which we Parliamentarians learned about when it was published in the Official Journal, we remember excises, cookies, lobbying, if there's anyone we don't remember. We remember a recently passed law regarding Mostar who, I think, had forgotten the people of the constituency to enter the law, and wrote them in the reasoning of the law. And what's going on? So there's this process that, and this international community has transformed a little bit, especially these Evropljanin, always separating Amerikanac, they're consistent at least in preserving values and they're not going to do what Evropljanin do so easily. What's the big deal? Well, it's important to them, and they're already chasing the next term, so he writes in the report that something happened here, that progress has been made, that limited progress has been made, that kind of progress, and that kind of thing goes quickly to the next destination. What's left here, they don't care. How will success be the easiest? So they're going to call people in the Balkan way of the bar, residence, deal, arm twisting, phone, and then, like 47, something's going to get adopted and then it's going to be a success. And we're standing where we stand, so it can't be like that anymore, that process has to be put into institutions. What is the institution for the adoption of the law? Parliament. Who's supposed to participate? Everyone should participate. Should the media be here? They do. Do the citizens need to see it? They do. Why? So because these same Evropljanin are teaching us to do so, they teach us that this is how the process is run, now let's lead it like that, not hidden behind the eyes of the public. So, I thank my colleagues, Čolo, for the proposal, and I believe that your proposal will have a majority and that this time we will give Evropljanin a lesson about how to conduct a transparent process and how everyone is involved in it, and not just the desired partners with whom they will make an illusion that something is happening here and that we will be able to make their CVs go to the next destination, and nobody can convince me that any of them loves this country more than I do, and I want to decide as an MP in this country, not any international official here.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9676	Thank you, counsel. Representative Dženan Đonlagić, debate, here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9677	I thank the chairman. At first, let me just say that I really fully agree with the previous discussions of MP Čolo and MP Magazinović, in the full capacity of the content they have presented and I do not think it is acceptable for the conclusion to be proposed in this proposal in this way by members of the Representative and House of the Peoples on the subject of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in full capacity and I really support that representatives of all or presidents of the clubs of all parliamentary parties in this House or representatives of clubs, regardless of whether the position or opposition should be found in this working group. But what I particularly appreciate should be that if there is a state notification that should have representatives in the Interresor Working Group for amending electoral legislation, I stress the electoral legislation, then there is no more relevant address in both the institutional and technical capacity of the CEC of BiH. So today, we had on the agenda a proposal to amend and supplement the Public Procurement Act where, in a formal sense, the proposer was, or was the Council of Ministers of BiH, but in the previous procedure, all the support and expertise and technical and each other was given by the Public Procurement Agency BiH. So, bearing in mind that it is a very demanding job, such as amendments to BiH's electoral legislation, then it is unequivocally argued that BiH's members must find their place as full members in this Interresor working group, not as observers, as being invited, so they will be consulted as necessary, it is the degradation of the institution, it is the degradation of the indiscriminateness which is in full capacity authorised to participate in the story of amending electoral legislation. In this regard, and regarding this item of the agenda, I propose that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives adopt a conclusion, and I will deliver it after I present it, to all MPs, which reads: The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is tasked with calling on the state institution to the Central Election Commission of BiH to submit a proposal by two of its members to form an Interresor Working Group to amend BiH's electoral legislation as full members. 48 Explanation: Since the Interresor Working Group should be tasked with preparing an amendment to the electoral legislation, and I consider it useful, necessary and necessary by means of an authorised proposing to the homes of the parliamentary procedure for the participation of the BiH CEC members in this working group. I thank the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9678	Representative Mirko Šarović, debate, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9679	Thank you, Chairman. Well, since my predecessors have said a lot, I'm going to avoid some comments or debate and just say a few things. This is, I think, the first time in 15 years at least, and electoral legislation has been changed on many occasions, that there are no representatives of the opposition in the commission, the body, the interresor working group. Which is, I don't know what the motives of the promoter are, and I find that a bad message, I generally find that it's a bad thing, since it's a fundamental law, a system law. Always, not only in BiH, in any country and region, I would say, the consensus and consensus on the electoral legislation of the position and opposition and of some other participants, some have mentioned, it was necessary indeed and absolutely necessary. That is why I want to stress this, to remain that, as other MPs have said and perhaps, here, to say that as far as this SDS-PDP-DS Club is concerned, we do not suffer to enter this Interresor Working Group, but it is bad, absolutely bad, the responsibility is on you, the greatest responsibility is on you and you however you wish, you go your own way, but I think you will not get far. And I agree with Mrs. Čolo, I think that's what she said, so you see we're adopting the conclusion that we haven't, or at least we haven't got what we essentially want, what's essentially the goal of, apart from the general story of electoral legislation whether or not it's just going to be determined on this Interresor Working Group, which I think is totally, I would say, nonsensus, unacceptable. It should have been said in advance what the objective is, means whether compliance with the European Commission's report, I don't know, on BiH's progress, and in the area of electoral legislation with certain European standards or the OSCE's views or someone else or something else, anything, but we don't have it, which I think is the wrong way. Of me, I really do, and I join my colleagues who have also talked about this a little bit and their views on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9680	Thank you. Representative Snježana Novaković-Novaković-Bursać, correction of the wrong allegation, please welcome the MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9681	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. The wrong allegation refers to Mr. Šarović's exposure, when he says that back then, I don't know how many years it wasn't, this one, or Mr. Đonlagić, when he mentioned the participation of the CEC in the Interressor Working Group. I will remind you that in 2015 there was an attempt, i.e. an inter-resor working group in which there was, of course, no CEC representative, even at a time when the CEC, or its members, were elected at that time in a completely single legal and transparent procedure and when those positions were carried out by people who really had something to say about the 49 electoral process. So it's not exactly this argument that we should, uh, be members of the CEC. And as for the participation of the opposition in the work of the SNSD Interresor Working Gupa Club and the SNSD party, we're not really against it, but we're not sure whether this is the best way to do this right now, let's say, expanding the composition of the task force, because it gets a rather different dimension. We're ready to talk about it, but again, if it's linear now, let's say, let's all go clubs, so one, two representatives, we're already going in, I'm afraid, in a zone where it might look like a kind of bidding or something. So, in the last interresor working group, we had representatives of the House of the Peoples three, the House of Representatives three and technical and professional, administrative affairs were scheduled to perform the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly. Therefore, these allegations do not state that without the CEC, especially given that in the CEC we have currently been illegally elected and people who are not at all experts in this, not all of them, I do not say they are not all, but a significant number of them have no experience or knowledge in the field of electoral legislation.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9682	Thank you. Representative Branislav Borenović, debate, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9683	Thank you, Chairman. I thought I'd check out, but I'm still going to use two, three minutes to say a few views about this Joint College proposal. Afterwards, I think there were four discussions, encouraging discussions, MPs coming from different political parties and clubs, we had a correction to the wrong quote of the head of a parliamentary club, who discouraged me, from which I realized the real intention of forming such an Interresor group, that nothing was done, that probably through some time scale this election year would be used for the fact that the sooner we would pass and we would be in elections with old retrograde, poor election rules. And here is the key question of reasons, why did the Joint College propose such a selective Interresor Working Group, why, what's the reason? That in such an obvious way, it unnecessarily selectively determines that, I don't know, three political parties are much more important than the others, to work one systematic, an amendment to one system law, which is of capital importance for the whole society. Because the electoral law as time passes we are all aware that perhaps the most important law, which in essence is the fundamental and fundamental changes to the electoral rules, should open the space for us to have fair and fair elections, that we have elected representatives who are not based on corruption, but on the real, real will of citizens, sat down in legislative bodies, elected our executive representatives and determined the future of the society in which we live. I have a feeling, from what I've heard, that the intention here is completely different, just to create an illusion that an inter-resor working group is being created that will deal with electoral legislation, which has a fundamental intention of doing nothing. You have the possibility as a congregational majority to do whatever you want, believe me, if we were a little bit and politically selfish, for us, and it suits us, to take full responsibility for the whole process, so we'll meet at some point and give our views, but I think it's wrong, especially because, if nothing else, we've heard from at least every political party that has representatives in this House that the election law is not good, that we need to change it, that we need different election rules, that we need to comply with European rules, that we need to provide mechanisms in which we have fair elections and 50 each of us is probably from our own corner, but at least we've heard it, and I don't see why we don't apply it, and we need to do something concrete. I must tell you that I have heard good suggestions from my distinguished colleague, Čolo and Mr. Magazinović, Mr. Đonlagić, Mr. Šarović, but I am also discouraged by this tactics by the head of the SNSD Club. We'll have to think about it, I don't know either, so if we should... don't think about it, let's just end this the way you came up with it, and let's see what happens when it happens, I don't mind, but let's see. This is an election year, if we don't use it to do something concrete about electoral legislation, then we've missed a chance that's probably never going to show up again, and that's how this is on nocturnal feet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9684	Thank you. Representative Snježana Novaković-Novaković-Bursać, correction of the wrong allegation, please welcome the MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9685	Mr. Borenović, the SNSD has been very clear this time and in all previous exhibitions, that it supports and does not mind that the parties that do not form the current Council of Ministers at this level are also part of the Interressor working group. So yours, what you realize and what you're feeling, it's, uh, with the fact that it obviously doesn't have much and too much to do. I just said that the SDA, who participates together, who participates with two members in the Joint College or we all should maybe..., now I'm talking to my colleagues from the SDA, we should consider this proposal together, so maybe we should come up with a different proposal in front of the Kolegijum or something. So we have nothing against change, participation, uh, other parties, however, we think that the electoral process, as it is, is the ownership of all political actors, which includes, of course, citizens and because of them we must be doing it all, so don't twist words. How to come up with a functional solution, that is, how to come up with a political agreement that will really, on the basis of which there will be an opportunity to adopt a better, hopefully, more quality, more functional election law, it is already another story. I'm just afraid that at the beginning, if we go this way, uh, we won't get far, because from someone, from the position of some agreements we have to start, and no one is slowing down the possibility that maybe in the second step on any basis and expanding and finishing, this, the Inregresor Working Group, maybe we can do it today, I just said that we should, as I think, carefully and in a quality way and present each proposal, analyze and adopt and start doing something on that plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9686	Thank you. Representative jasmin Emrić, debate, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9687	I thank the Honorable Chairman. 51 When I saw this proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group to amend BiH's electoral legislation, I was thinking about what to suggest that this wrong model, as proposed, be improved, and that all political parties represented in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, in this thinking, I am glad that I heard these earlier discussions, and that colleagues and colleagues held the view that it was a system law and the need to involve all political parties, entities in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in order to improve electoral legislation. In this context, I have prepared a proposal for a conclusion on the amendments and diplomas of the Conclusion on the establishment of the Interresor Working Group, I propose that Article 2 of the proposed Conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group for the Amendment of the Election Legislatives of BiH be amended and voted – The Interresor Working Group referred to in Article 1 of this Conclusion shall be appointed by one MP or delegate of each political party or entity represented in the House of Representatives or the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, three members from the Council of Ministers of BiH and three members from the Central Election Commission of BiH. Article 3 of the proposed Conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group to amend BiH's electoral legislation is also amended -- ahead of the Alliance of Independent Social Democrats, 3rd in front of the Croatian Democratic Union, 4th in front of the Social Democratic Party, 5th in front of the Serbian Democratic Party, 6th in front of the Party of Democratic Progress, 7th in front of the Democratic Front, 8th in front of our Party, 9th in front of the Socialist Party, 10th in front of the Democratic Union, 11th in front of the Alliance for a Better Future of BiH, 12th in front of the Party of Democratic Action and 13th in front of the Party of the Democratic Activity of BiH. Three members from the Council of Ministers' Council of BiH's sage are appointed by the BiH Council of Ministers, three members called by the Central Election Commission appointed the Central Election Commission of BiH. I also propose this conclusion that Article 4 is changed and said – During the process, the Interresor Working Group for the Amendment of Election Law BiH will consult experts from the NGO sector, the academic community and, if necessary, other experts from international organisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9688	Thank you, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9689	Dear colleague Borjana Krišto, discussion. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9690	Thank you very much. Here, I will also refer briefly to this conclusion that the Interresor Working Group should be formed by this House, or the Parliamentary Assembly. In their discussions, some colleagues here referred to how the Joint College took its own, in a way, for the right to decide in one way or another and to form perhaps a working, interresor working group. Although counterpart Alma Čolo said, in some ways and in the introduction, that some things are not clear to her, I will remind her that we at the Joint College are on the proposal of the American Administration, i.e. the Embassy, the OSCE and the European Commission, meaning, we received a letter addressed to the Joint College and, of course, none of the other colleges individually did not have that memo in mind except for the Joint College and then discussed how to focus, so on 14 priorities. A special accent placed on electoral legislation in terms of implementation of both the European Court of Human Rights and the decision of the BiH Constitutional Court on the legitimate representation of the constituent people at all administrative political levels, as well as the ODIR recommendations, means, as the OSCE, parts of the OSCE that monitors the democraticity of the electoral process and of course the Venice Commission and all those legal technical repairs which we, as representatives, have heard through some debate and through some empathy, I would say, these electoral rules and procedures that are prescribed in the Electoral Law. So our views and my views, which I will express here and here as a representative, and which I have also expressed as a member of the Joint College, that, in any case, in the Interresor Working Group, if something is to be done, there should be legislators and legislators, which means representatives of executive and legislative authorities. So I am not surprised here, of course, that it is legitimate to discuss both the position and the opposition to be members, etc. Everyone has the right to see it in their own way and certainly participate in it, either through some interresor working group, whether, of course, as representatives who we are and bringers, uh, the law, or even this one in this case law. So, I stand by, which I will also repeat, that the Central Election Committee is not a body that should participate in changes to the general electoral law, they are those who apply this law and, of course, I do not want to say that this is, uh, with that, but in any case this Central Election Commission, which was appointed against the provisions of the Election Law, I do not think it is the place to work on the amendments to the BiH Election Law. However much we say here today in this House, so we speak as we await the decisions of the courts, so whoever has the right, who is dissatisfied, has the right to complain, etc. I also do not argue that the court has failed to resolve these issues and has not made its decision. If BiH were indeed a legal state, I think that, according to decisions that have been made or appealed, the BiH Court should make its decisions by now. But what none of us here can dispute is the fact that this is the Central Election Commission appointed by this House of Representatives on a proposal from political parties and, of course, no one can convince me otherwise, that in one such body or any other representative of certain agencies, institutions, which are appointed in such a way, are not independent institutions on a proposal by political parties, because they are not appointed in accordance with the legal procedures and the basis of public procedure, regardless of how they are, I say, implemented. So, in this case today I want to repeat my position, that I won't accept it, we won't even do it in front of the club, in a way to accept that the members of the Central Election Commission are members of the Interresor Working Group, and all other things that have been discussed here can be taken into account or spoken in one way or another. What I want, uh, highlighted as a member of the HDZ BiH together with clubs, will do everything we can to step up to the implementation of the decisions, and of course to make any other corrections that go in the interest of transparency 53 and the democraticity of the election process when it comes to the BiH Election Law. And once again, if we are already talking about the need for CEC members to be there, however they are appointed here, it is not right to suggest that they deliver as an institution members of the Central Election Commission, it would be quite legitimate of these political parties to say and who are members of the Central Election Commission that are proposed in the Interresor Working Group. I personally belong to those who think that interresor working groups are otherwise not such that they will contribute and that something will be achieved at all, this, on them, they are most often a front for something not to be done. Once again, we will participate in always proactively with proposals that when it comes to electoral law we implement both the decisions of the European Court and the decisions of the Constitutional Court of BiH, in order to correct all discriminatory provisions relating to individuals and to collectiveity when it comes to the choice of Croatian political representatives in the bodies of the Presidency and the homes of the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9691	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, distinguished representative Saša Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9692	So it's a small problem when you've been in one institution for a long time, so you remember the different arguments, or the same arguments for the different intentions of the political one. So, what you were saying about the CEC now, since we have appointed these interrestron working groups many times, this is what I told you at the time, that the CEC members were politically elected, that this is a body that needs to be implemented by law rather than created, that there is no need for the CEC to be in that working body, but that it should be MPs and Council of Ministers. You know what you told me at the time, I'm not talking to you, but you, your party, are 100%, we can find a stenogram, that it's necessary for the CEC to be there, that it's necessary, that it's not a political appointment, that it's not a party people, that it's professional, and that it's always been a CEC in the interresor working group. So we switched roles. In the meantime, you convinced me that it should be the CEC and that they are independent and that it doesn't matter what the law enforcement body is, that they really need to create laws, and I'm representing it now. And in the meantime, you've changed your attitude, and now you're saying what I was saying. You know what this is all about? That the political attitude and the political interest at some point directs our criteria, the same way that the CEC was chosen a few years ago and when we appointed these same inter-resor working groups, it was just, let's say, appropriate for you then for the CEC to be and then you asked the argument to be. Now it doesn't suit you to be, but now they're law enforcement bodies, even then they were. Now they're politically appointed, even then they were, only then you've appointed, and now someone else. So nothing has changed, just a little attitude of strength in Parliament at the moment when people are elected. They are political and now they were political and they were never an independent body, that they were not lobbying here and collecting votes and in inter-party agreements they agreed on to which place they belonged in the CEC, and we are all witnessing that this was happening, just to the public, what we are acting like, is that, when we are in power, the CEC is independent, and when we are the opposition then the CEC is a political body. I've exceeded my time, CEC, so you've convinced me in years before the CEC should be part of this process, and I've revised my position, and I've now strongly advocated that the CEC members are there, that they are independent and that they are professional and that without them this can't be anything. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9693	Thank you very much. Correction of the wrong allegation, Agent Damir Arnaut, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9694	Thank you, Chairman. Well, you see, you said, I'm paraphrasing, but it's pretty close to what you said, that the CEC implements the Electoral Law without having to participate in amendments or the creation of the Electoral Law, and that's what Mr. Magazinović leaned on. However, you see, this is legally prescribed, the CEC according to Article 2 point 9) of its position (16) submits an annual report to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the conduct of elections, the implementation of this law and initiates amendments to this law. So, by law, the BiH Election Law prescribed the role of the CEC in initiating amendments to the BiH Election Law, it is a legal obligation, the legal jurisdiction of the CEC and there is no dispute and so it was before and so it remains now. So, the CEC's legal jurisdiction is clear. To me, too, it is illogical, so in your presentation you pointed out that you believe that this CEC meeting is not legal or legitimate and that for this reason they should not be members of the group, but you accept Article 4 of this proposed decision from the College that the Interressor Working Group will consult the CEC. So are they, by that interpretation, just a little illegal and illegal that, enough that they can't be members of the group, but insufficiently illegal and illegal that you can't consult them if necessary. So these two positions simply don't go with each other, if you feel that they are illegal and illegal, then you accept through this Article 4 that you are consulting an illegal and illegal body. So, the fact is that CEC members are appointed in accordance with the Electoral Law, as it is also clear, is the unequivocal fact that the CEC's competence is among other things to initiate changes to BiH's electoral law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9695	Thank you. Representative Predrag Kožul, correction of the wrong allegation, here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9696	So the correction of the wrong allegation refers to the quote of counterpart Magazinović, that the Central Election Commission was chosen in the same way, completed about half a year ago or something more, a year ago and a previous call from the Central Election Commission. My colleagues, I believe, are better known than I am, that every meeting of the Central Election Commission has so far been chosen on the basis of the competition procedure laid down by law. Whether it was a body and now it was independent or not, it was given to debate, but the procedures were in no way the same. What surprises me further, that my colleague has been able to change his mind, is that we have not changed our opinion on the participation of the members of the Central Election Plenary in this Interresor Working Group for several reasons, and we believe that it is the body responsible for the conduct of the elections as the Election Law itself accurately determines. Thank you. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9697	Thank you very much. Representative Saša Magazinović, correction of the wrong allegation, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9698	So, I didn't say that in a technical sense it was the same choice, since obviously we all know that the last time Parliament intervened was before it was done with a competitive procedure the way it, whether or not the law requires, but that the political appointment was the last time and before that and every time before that, I responsibly claim it. The members of the CEC are called the same as the directors of the agencies at the state level, the place belongs to that and to that party, let's say publicly that this is, I mean, who we lie to more, who we lie to more. Will you name it, let me ask you who was all a member of the HDZ, so they are people, so they are. Is the SDP called that? Yes, all parties have named it and let's stop pretending that the CEC is an independent regulatory body, it's not, depending on the election result, if you get two seats. Is that a problem? It is a problem. Why? Well, because the political stance is being articulated through the members of the CEC. How long will that be? Until we find some model where it won't be like that anymore. Is that wrong? It's wrong. But let's tell the public and everyone that the CIK is not an independent body and it has never been and as long as it is elected here and as long as it is part of the negotiations between political parties and the inter-party agreement, only one who is proposed by the party can come and I said that there is no difference between last appointment and all previous appointments in that these are people sent from the party, who calls the party's president when it is a crisis situation and says what our position is, so the legal norm adapts to the political position. Let's call things a real name.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9699	Thank you very much. Advocacy Alma Čolo, correction of the wrong allegations, please welcome MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9700	Well, I'd like to make my arguments about the assumption that the CEC shouldn't be part of this Interresor Working Group, but in my discussion, I said I didn't insist on it, because I was told there was no deal on it. But here I would say something like a lawyer why I think they have to be. So whoever studied law school, he studied, I mean whoever graduated from law school, how laws are made, and what is the basis of legal normation, well-known areas you legally standard. If you are working on a health care law you must include health care professionals, not enough to be just a lawyer, you must have experts from a particular area. I think that the people of the CEC are experts in a particular area, because they are implementing the Election Law, and only if you are implementing some law you encounter difficulties in its implementation, are you encountering what is a problem in the implementation of this law and I think that these are people who know the elements of the electoral system in BiH and can only be of benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9701	Thank you very much. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong allegation. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9702	I refer to what Mr. Arnaut and Mr. Magazinović have said, in a certain way it is also an correction of the wrong assumption. So, Mr. Arnuat, nobody today, neither tomorrow nor the day after tomorrow will stop the Electoral Commission, as it is, to initiate the changes and probably will be able to do so, and a little is used as legally, slightly illegal, because there are simply parts until it is resolved, we simply can't forget that fact, and in that sense we are also consistent. And as for Mr. Magazinović, so you're just like us when you talk about HDZ members. So, I didn't then, I don't remember being involved in what you were talking about, but then you changed your mind, so here we are now, and you convinced us, if that's what we're gonna do. So, you've now convinced us that it's a political body and we have no problems, so we accepted your arguments four years ago, five years ago, when you assured us that it was all right, but, therefore, with that difference, everything was chosen by law then. However, they are now elected outside the law, gentlemen from the Central Election Commission. So, I agree with everything you've said, that the political body, it's all okay, it's just that there are procedures, I've talked about it several times today, and I don't want to repeat myself, so they're not elected in accordance with the law and I'm not repeating what I've already said today on several occasions. So here's what we've changed, they're a political body, and now they don't need it until this issue is resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9703	Borjana Krišto, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9704	Thank you very much. I will not refer to Saša Magazinović as saying now, because Predrag Kožul and Nikola Lovrinović have also said, but what counterpart Alma Čolo has now said, why she thinks that members of the Central Election Commission should be part of the team and should be involved as professional people in amendments to the Election Law, whose area is really who they are. Here I am, uh, not going to brag about my legal experience, although for a time I have been working as a reference for normative activity, when I started learning through legal practice, is what you know, and so it is in some way like a replica, but more complementary, uh, in terms of that, therefore, of course, the legislators are certain ministries that have professional people and this one for proposing laws from their own field. Of course, it does not suggest the Ministry of Health laws, for example, on litigation or criminal proceedings, etc. However, in this case, when we talk about an internal working group, we are talking about precisely the aspect of the work group being proposed representatives of the executive and legislative authority with assistance and expertise from their services, which can only help us pass one such law which would, of course, be implemented and made clear, etc. and that would meet all those conditions and rules that require us to follow the procedure when we adopt, that is to say, laws, all sorts of legal technical remarks and what is our condition and the assumption that we will meet when we propose certain laws. So in this case, I will repeat once again, meaning, the Central Executive Body, whatever someone thinks here and said, that the same situation, is not the same situation, this situation has never been, because this body has now been appointed exclusively to the proposal of political parties and in this sense are political persons, it is otherwise impossible to contemplate or perceive, and that it has been carried out by public procedure, regardless of what someone is making comments, suggestions, that it is like this and then on a proposal from political parties, it is 57, however, in the way that the law implements and the public procedure that has allowed everyone else to feel and have the ability to do this job, to be, if nothing, in the same position as everyone else, to allow them to apply to that tender procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9705	Agent Helez, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9706	I thank the esteemed chairman. Look, first of all, I don't know what's going on with this Interresor Working Group, and here they have two things about amending the Election Law, one is of a technical nature, and the other is of a legal political nature. If we're treating this technical nature, what's more important to me right now, it's about the election process, their transparency, and I'm not sure through this proposed Interresor Working Group to treat it. If we get into this second part, legal politicians, as far as I know and the vast majority of the lawyers I've listened to and that I highly appreciate, they say it can't change without changing the Constitution. To mention the Constitution, here is one of the European Court rulings on the election of members of the Presidency, it is necessary to amend the Constitution. If we get into this, you know everyone here, that to change the Constitution takes 2/3 of the majority, that's one of the key reasons why they should be representatives of the opposition in this Interresor Working Group. As for the profession, uh, Mrs. Borjan, I think we have enough smart people, but this is a more political issue, this is about two diametrically conflicted attitudes, this is about the constitutional structure of BiH. This is one of the most crucial and important laws if we enter this second part of the election law's amendments. If it happens, and according to this task force as proposed, I have no doubt that we would get the law that each of..., each nation chooses its representatives and only we lack borders and that is a divided state of BiH. Therefore, it is a special responsibility today for the SDA MPs, to support that this Interresor Working Group expands to the opposition, and why not, we are all elected to the elections and even has us from the opposition that we have received more individual votes than those in the position. Which is more legitimate than personal votes in direct elections. That is why I support those who have said that representatives of all political parties should have their representatives in this Interresor Working Group. This, as suggested now, is being dominated by a group that is about to amend the electoral law, which divides BiH into three parts. So this is very dangerous if it stays in this system. And that's why I'm either suggesting that the agenda point pulls back, so let's add it up, to take it more seriously, or to add this, this conclusion, and we suggest that each member of the club, one member of the club, be a representative of this. And about this CEC, I'm more into being experts, dealing with this problem than CEC representatives, because the CEC conducts elections and they don't need to be here. And finally, whatever happens, it will come here, this proposal and we will give the last word, us and the House of Nations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9707	Thank you, Agent Helez. Representative Zlatan Begić, debate, please welcome MP. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9708	Respected chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected media representatives, respected members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly administration. Here, I'm afraid we've gone, as usual, a little, a little too far. Here all the people sitting in this room certainly have very valuable experience when it comes to the electoral procedure. For a long time in politics, someone ran certain processes through a political party, people were on lists having certain experiences, having certain knowledge, knowing where these problems are, someone professionally engaged in normative property as a civil servant, a reference officer, etc. I, for example, have mastered and doctored on this issue, published several books, thirty scientific papers around the world, from the United States, through Germany, England, where space is not given so easily. Mostly I agree here with most colleagues, all of us here are people who have certain experiences, which through our practice, which through profession, which through scientific work on the electoral process and what it means. I cannot agree with the approach behind the thesis, that the persistent repetition of certain things in the end should give the public the impression that it is something that is unquestionable truth. We are not the court here to assess whether someone is legal or illegal, and I think that it is always one after another that repeats that someone is illegal or that it is illegally chosen is quite clear that it is two procedures of which both are legal and that is the essence of constitutional mechanisms, to give a valve that will allow the functioning of the system when someone takes the right to block the system. Here, we have the same situation again, the deadlines for the appointment of a CEC member have been missed again, why are people doing this? So the deadlines are clearly set, we can re-propose today and choose a CEC member and that's by law, that's what the law says. And let me tell you right now, these public proceedings and public competitions or competitions, which are being held in BiH, I participated in several, until I was a member of the political party, I was in politics almost, two, three years ago, where I was told that it belonged to this party or to that party, and don't be hypocritical, this is where the positions are shared, and where they shouldn't be shared by the political key and by the result of the political elections, that's what I've seen in these two years, even though I knew it before. The question arises, is it different anywhere in the world, or is it this democracy that involves going to elections, achieving a certain result, and then participating in certain institutions? Perhaps these foreigners, whom my colleague Magazinović spoke very nicely of, and I sign every word of him, have actually misteached these 20 and change years, that democracy is some independent institution, some people who came out of nowhere, by no means, it's not very different in Western countries either, that we understand ourselves, only that in Western countries we have built a democratic consciousness, we have a rule of law and we have at least such consistency. So I appreciate here the experience of people and people who have proposed undoubtedly have valuable experience to participate in the work of this group, as professionally I would say politically, but I would say that we have forgotten something and in this sense I will propose two conclusions. One is on the trail of a colleague, Magazinović, and it is about transparency. We forgot where it started, what about people with national minorities? Well, the first warning came to us about it, not to mention what's wrong with us, who don't belong to either national minorities or the constituent nations, who are bound by our national membership to this country's civic, civility. And in that context, so I agree, we need dialogue, we need broad dialogue, and I think that everyone is welcome in this work and we need trust and we need to talk, to listen to each other. 59 I apologize for wasting my time, for the limited time I will read my two conclusions, which I will suggest: 1. BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives owes College to call on the BiH Council of National Minorities to delegate at least two members, who will be full members [[the speaker is warned on time]] Inrepressor working groups to amend BiH's electoral legislation. [[the speaker is warned on time]] 2. Interresor working group sessions will be open to the public, including the media. Thank you very much. I'm sorry I overstepped my time.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9709	Thank you, counsel. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, debate, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9710	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I will probati through this discussion to look back on what my colleagues have said so far about this proposal, so to appoint an Interresor Working Group to amend the Election Law. Mr Šarović said at one point, alluded to the parliamentary majority's responsibility, our representatives, etc. What I absolutely agree with and indeed is so, therefore, has a parliamentary majority and is very responsible and should take responsibility for it, take over, take over, take over, make decisions and take over, therefore, to resolve the issues that lie ahead of it. So it's absolutely a responsibility and I agree with that. In this context, Mrs Čolo, which is part of the parliamentary majority, I call for her to withdraw her proposals for conclusions, because, and for others, I will declare myself later, because I am not sure, therefore, that with these proposals of the conclusions that have fallen, here and now from my colleague Begić, that, therefore, in the situation that we have 20, 30 or 40 members of the Interresor Working Committee for the Amendment of the Election Law, we will solve anything, so. It's gonna be a huge body, which probably won't just be able to bring anything, like Mrs. Krišto said. And what it will do, some of which Mrs. Krišto said to Mrs. Čolo, means, Sejdić-Sejdić-Finci, so we know it is... at the end of the interresor working commission may invite all interested and, in their opinion, to deliver proposals that they want to make in order to find themselves in amendments to the Electoral Law. Mr. Magazinović was talking about the role of international representatives and I agree with that, so everything will be settled here in Parliament, here he comes out, but he listens to me down by the door. So, I agree absolutely with him, which he said, however, obviously now that the position of perhaps representatives of the international community, under the circumstances, is not something he likes or someone else. So, I agree absolutely, we make a decision, I can suggest as all others who participate in this process suggest, there is no problem, but I am therefore sufficient that this Parliament makes a decision and will, if Bog does, make a decision on it. That's why this isn't about, therefore, Mr. Helez, the conflict of two principles, you said technically and politically legal, it seems to me this is what you said. _________(?) 60 [[no microphone turned on]] Yes, and the political two concepts, okay, let's do this, but this is about respecting the Constitution here, we need to pass the electoral law in accordance with the constitutional arrangement currently in force. And if someone likes him or doesn't like him now, then when we get to the amendments to the Constitution, what you said yourself, then probably the Electoral Law will be quite different than this one. For this reason, not to go any further, I propose one conclusion, if colleagues agree, therefore, first and foremost to adopt today this proposal from the Interresor Working Group, as presented to us here, and therefore: The Joint College is in charge of reviewing all proposals for the enlargement of the Interresor Committee and informing both homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. So, we might be able to get into the process in the next session of changes, I don't know, possibly this decision we're making today, but to see the number and composition, is that too many bodies, so maybe even these details about what this commission is going to do, but basically, a lot of conclusions here today have fallen, that ad hoc we're making, and we have a concrete proposal from the Joint College, and I think we should make it today, that we're starting from something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9712	Thank you, counsel. Representative Zukan Helez, correction of the wrong allegations, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9713	I thank the chairman. Mr Lovrinović, our Constitution is not with the European Convention on Human Rights and that is the basic problem. Now as a citizen of this country, as a resident of this country, I have no right to vote for a member of the Presidency or for the president of my country, not only me but half of the people of this country cannot influence who he will be, who his president will be in a certain term. I couldn't, nor could anyone from the Federation vote for the current chairmanship of the presidency, Mr. Milorad Dodik. If it goes further, that I now have the right to decide between two people in, as the Constitution says between Hrvat and Bošnjak, if my right still comes down to a minimum, so I can only vote for one, then we are going against this Convention on Human Rights, we are going against European, counter-world standards. So I would live in a country where I can only vote for one of three members, or just one third of the term of office of the president of my country. Tell me where he has it. And as long as I can fight in this Parliament and in all other legal ways that it doesn't happen, that we go further restrictions and that should be every citizen's right to choose everyone in the entire BiH area, I don't see what's controversial about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9714	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong allegation, please. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9715	kolega Helez, all this can stand and stand as you have said, but if we will not respect the Constitution that is in force, which, if I am not mistaken, because a judge one in Strasbourg has taken his opinion by saying that it is full of discrimination, but that the courts cannot decide what the Constitution will be, but the Constitutional Assembly and those who make the state. Therefore, it is as it is now, and perhaps much I can agree with you as you say, however, it is as it is and he must have such an Electoral Law, until we change it, we must respect the Constitution that is in force. If you want and wish, then, to define yourself between the election, let's say, in the Federation of two members of the Bošnjak and Hrvat presidency, here I want to be as a Hrvat on the list for a member of the Bosniak people's presidency, and that's my civil right. So maybe I'll run for next election, be a Hrvat in front of the Bošnjak presidency, if that's what we're going to do, and that's my civil rights. So, we have... obviously vaguely set the Constitution, but we have it as we have it, and we have to respect it, I think we agree on that. And if all those changes and others that people have been saying, I don't doubt, maybe they need and they need and I agree, but right now we have what we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9716	Thank you very much. Zukan Helez, correction of the wrong allegations, here you go, counselor.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9717	Mr. Lovirnović, we will come to the same, I want you to run on behalf of the Bosniak, on behalf of the Serbian, Croatian people and on behalf of the ______________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9719	Please, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9720	I totally don't care, so I stand for it, but now there's one fundamental problem here, which will certainly have this commission and this Parliament and this state, and that's the verdict of the domestic Constitutional Court and the judgment of international courts in the good part of it, and whoever lays it down is a real legal expert and everyone is satisfied.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9721	Thank you very much. Representative Nenad Stevandić, debate, please welcome MP. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9722	Well, I wouldn't, uh, activate the correction of the wrong quote, let me say, first of all, I appreciate that anyone can say what they want and it has to be based on some constitution, so. Mr. Helez maločas says the president of the BiH state that he can't vote in Banja Luka or I don't know in the whole... so there is no BiH president, has the presidency, you vote for the Presidency and we all have the same rights under the current Constitution and law, here to talk people nonsense that has nothing to do with the current state, neither the Constitution, nor the formation of the people, nor the entity. We didn't make it up, it's a valid constitution. I wanted to say that here's the consultation, me and Mr. Galić are not going to participate at all in this Interress work group, either through the club or through the party. Although I respect the view that it may be better for the presidents of political parties to have in this Interresor Working Group than for representatives of the CEC. I don't know why we should be at the same time party and representatives of the CEC who have just proposed these parties and who manage them, not to lie to each other. Then what's a double player doing here? Why should I trust the CEC, here's my personal experience in these elections, when I was elected MP here, I had a situation in Republika Srpska to make either coalition lists or some contracts. It's me, we decided in United Serbia to make a deal with the SNSD. Then my colleagues from the SDS sued me and asked me to get off the list, because that list, it wasn't coalition, but it had some, like, bond relationship. Then the CEC decided that they couldn't take me off the list, and then a member of the CEC sued me against the same CEC, asking that I be removed from the list again. I'm supposed to sit with these people in the Interresor Working Group and discuss election law. These are the same people who, when the new CEC composition was chosen in the local elections, wrote what I sang in Venice in order to ban the political party I represent, what I sang in Venice with my friend and that was on the CEC agenda along with some other things about videos where I understand that there is some political measure to discuss is this, is that it. I respect all of you who think it's not good, who think it's... meaning, but imagine it means private archive, with a private profile considering CEC what I sang on some boat in Venice. And I am now supposed to be with these people in some inter-resor working group, which has been delegated by a political party that wanted to affect the elections in Republika Srpska, to remove the party that has had the largest 300% growth, which has won several mayors, the president of the assembly and that is democracy whether or not to participate. Gentlemen, I don't agree with much of you, but as a man, I accept that you say that you have the right, that what you say some people support, who will choose you here and that we act by the Constitution here, because we represent our peoples and entities. What you've done with that CEC, so only you know it, and now we have, of course, no colleagues from the U.S.A., will support this story to appoint a new CEC member, because he's running out of office in 48 hours, you will, now you won't. And then when he stood out for them for a month, to influence his coalition partners from Republika Srpska and to choose who would win the elections, then you accepted and changed the members of the CEC and you honored your colleagues from the SDS and the PDP to propose them, we interrupted the session, you went Omsnović, and then a little with Mr. Mektić, so we agreed, and then we came and then we chose this CEC. And it's the CIK that's been considering what I'm doing on my private trip with my family and... and we in that and now I need these people to trust. And if we're going to watch political support, then in the first election when I was sued, I got more votes each than all of them and one of them, as they were called, who were involved in that circus, because I made 28 700. So 28 700 people were to be humiliated to honor the one who got 10, 12 grand. And that's the purpose of this story... there are things like that about Mr. Komšić's choice, but I'm not the one to tell it. There's so much illogicality in there, it's so much, to be honest, transparent about what we're doing. 63 The foundation is everything if we have made a peace agreement in '95. We have accepted that we live with others, in a country consisting of two entities and three peoples, who chooses three members of the presidency, who represent their peoples, what will make us play games that Zukan Helez knows better who to choose in Banja Luka, and I know who to choose in Sarajevo and that he chooses someone from Banja Luka and I from Sarajevo. So imagine what kind of cynicism it is, what democracy it leads to. Well, our experts would. America to clarify the election, and I'll finish in a second to clear up the election in America. [[the speaker is warned on time]] It's best that we explain the state's number of electronic votes, because we're great experts. Each system consists of standard and specificity. The standards are democratic, you have the right to vote, that your vote will not be... and the specificities are the constitutional arrangements of every state, BiH and America, and that is all we are moving in, but that is not the move of this initiative, neither this current composition of the CEC, nor the current political establishment in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9723	Thank you very much. Representative Džen Đonlagić, correction of the wrong allegations, here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9724	Correction of the wrong allegation is part of the presentation or presentation of Agent Stevandić. You see, Stevandić, the CEC did not punish you for singing and not entering whether you sing well or not, but because you sang Chetnic songs, so he punished you, not because you sang. The other members of the presidency and according to the current constitution do not represent the peoples, but are elected from the order of members of one, another or third people and when they enter the BiH presidency then represent the BiH state outside, when they implement and implement BiH's foreign policy, and in BiH they represent all BiH citizens, as an institution, as the BiH presidency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9725	Representative Zlatan Begić, correction of the wrong allegations, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9726	The Honorable Chairman, so here's the one to take advantage of the opportunity for exposure that could be heard, and it concerns how he can participate in the creation of an act by an authority implementing that act. You know, when we go to the extreme limits of inconsistencies, then we fall into logical traps, which is why the Council of Ministers should not propose any laws, because every law that passes it here is being implemented by the Council of Ministers through its agencies. So, I totally understand, it's perfectly clear to me that people can have their right and my opinion and I respect that, according to certain institutions, to prepare a certain decision, to agree or disagree, but I'm afraid that we are breaking into some logical inconsistencies and then come from these conclusions that are logically non-sustainable. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9727	Thank you, counsel. Representative Nenad Stevandić, correction of the wrong allegations, isolate the representative. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9728	Here's the first, Mr. Đonlagić, meaning "The sea is sailing one small boat" is not a Chetnic song, although it mentions draž Mihajilović, commander of the Yugoslav Army in the country, so it's not a Chetnic song, so. I'm a Partisan kid, uh, but that's not a Chetnic song. If you're interested in a list of Chetnic songs, I'll deliver it to you, but it's not. Yeah, it's not, you sing sevedales, thank Bog. So you need to know when you're discussing something about what a song is, so it's a song about a mother looking for a son, I'd like to send it to you to listen. So it's not a Chetnik song and you can't qualify which is a Chetnik song, I'm proud to sing it, it's a patriotic song, it's nothing to do with Chetniks, I'm not celebrating a movement, it's not ideological character, it's saying that mother is looking for a son, right. Secondly, who are members of the presidency when they are elected from the order of the Serbian, Croatian and Bosniak people? You think they're elected in the name of the people, and then in the presidency they'll represent someone else, then they'll represent the citizens. Aye, please nice, so when Milorad Dodik seeks vital national interest, he seeks vital national interest from Republika Srpska, that is, of course from Republika Srpska. The Bureau members represent both peoples and entities, according to the Constitution. And another thing, when you said I was being punished by the CEC. No one punished me, Mr. Đonlagić, I got everything in court and that's why I'm telling you the court rejected those qualifications, the CIK was wrong, the CIK was breaking the law is not Nenad Stevandić, it's proved by the court, but the impression remains that you're telling me that someone punished me, that's what the CEC does. It is the political constitution of BiH, which is exactly what you are repeating what I have warned of. I won in court, so since that CEC failed to resign when he tried illegally to ban a political party, illegally to punish someone, twice lost in court, goes directly to me. So tomorrow you'll raise your hand for that CEC, because you like it if he's doing something against Stevandić. I will not, if he works against Đonlagić, because I respect these basics, to say, postulates and codes, you are chosen by the citizens and the peoples you represent, in their name, I am in my name, and it does not occur to me that I, through the CEC, will take it away from you, and you support that the CEC will take it away from me. [[the speaker is warned on time]] That's why I don't want to be involved in this circus.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9729	Representative Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, not keeping the established agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9730	Please, we've really stepped away from the agenda and here we're talking about things, I mean, that have nothing to do with the choice, so, the working body, and already as we called it, to make changes to the election law and I'm asking that we really go back to that point of the agenda and what is the essence of that point.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9731	Thank you, counsel. We, we did not deviate from the established agenda, the MPs through their views and debated the position and opinions that caused the replicas, i.e. the corrections of the wrong quote, and in the end, we are still colleagues with the corrections of the wrong allegation. Correction of the wrong allegations, Adil Osmanović, please welcome MP. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9732	Thank you, Chairman. In several discussions, the thesis that the CEC has not been chosen according to the law, I really cannot believe that someone can present such a single thesis. This Parliament, in line with the Rules of Procedure, has voted on by members of the CEC and it is known which is the legal remedy for this, that is, the Court of BiH. This same CEC has conducted elections, municipal elections, held elections in Mostar, it shows that it is truly fully legal. What my colleague Stevandić said, that's why I got up the most. So do you, colleague Stevandić, consider it only legal for the SDA and you to vote, if SDA votes with SDP and DF and other political parties, that's not legal, is it? Legally, what is adopted here in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of this High House, the medicine is quite clear, you have the Court of BiH that can dispute it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9733	Thank you, counsel. Representative Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, correction of the wrong allegations, please welcome the MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9734	I would correct Mr. Stevandić's guilty allegations that we all have the same rights in BiH. We do not, because human rights are being violated in the BiH Constitution and therefore all international conventions are being violated, because we BiH citizens do not have an active, passive electoral right in the whole BiH territory. It's one correction to the wrong quote. And the second correction of the wrong allegation is exactly who the members of the Bureau represent. I would like to contribute to the fact that this allegation is not correct, that, let's say, Milorad Dodik represents the Republic of Serbia, and the other two members of the Federation Presidency, read the text of the oaths taken by members of the Presidency, which says - that I hereby swear that I will knowingly exercise my duty, respect the Constitution of BiH, implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace and its annexes as a whole, protect and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms, and take care of the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens. Therefore, it consists of a correction of the wrong allegation.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9735	Thank you, counsel. Advocacy Alma Čolo, correction of the wrong allegations, please welcome MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9736	So I would correct Mr. Stevandić's false allegations, which he said – what we need this game to do, to discuss who chooses which member of the presidency. Well, we don't need it, but it's an obligation and it's one of the key priorities of the European Commission's opinion under point 4.f. These are the judgments of the Strasbourg Court, each six months a report by the Monitoring Committee of the Council of Europe, which reminds this Parliament, among other things, to support and retain racial discrimination. Because you know what, giving privileges to Bošnjak, Srbin and Hrvat compared to everyone else, no matter how many there are in this country, is one, the other, who is not Bošnjak, who is not a Srbin, who is not Hrvat, is actually a distinction based on ethnicity. I am a Bošnjakinja, and it may be a good thing that the Constitution gives me certain privileges, but it is contrary to international standards and it is contrary to the UN Convention on the Prohibition of racial discrimination, it is contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights, it is contrary to international documents, and someone has instructed us to fix it. Now, you in the discussion, I see some say you need to change the Ustva, so we will not change the Constitution – so how will we change the Election Law if we do not change the Constitution according to international standards? Believe me, right to tell you, I don't know what I'm going to do in that task force.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9737	Thank you very much. Representative Nenad Stevandić, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9738	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Čolo, the Constitution is a fundamental act and it is that standard of respect for the rights of constitutional jurisdiction... within the Constitution you can, of course, talk about who violates, who does not violate human rights, it is regulated by law within that constitutional act. So I didn't make it up. And in the Constitution of America... some countries have more rights than some other country, but they choose on their own, to say, the basis of everything is a democratic principle, a foundation and here is a democratic principle, that nations and entities choose their representatives. We have agreed to such a constitution, which now should mean that we will advocate human rights which means violation of the Constitution, it is the most slippery legal ground and I will not, I am not an expert, I have done so many times with my colleagues from the legal team trying to understand, it is a slippery legal field, but what sets us up as MPs, as people, like that all, is the Constitution. This constitution elects three members of the Presidency, Srbin, Hrvat and Bošnjak, under the way they are elected and who can be righted to choose someone else and that is a violation of human rights and that human rights are violated by members of the Croatian people who do not choose their representative, the care is chosen by others, but no one will change it and I am not responsible to defend it and to talk about it, I just don't, it's an example for me not to let that happen to my people. As for the oath, appreciated by this folk MP, I, too, took this oath, as well as Mr Dodik and Mr Komšić, Džaferović. The oath has nothing to do with it, and it has nothing to do with who you represent, it has nothing to do with it, I took the Hippocratic oath, I also took the Hippocratic oath, I took this one, out of the 5,000 people I operated on, there must be 500 Bošnjak, there is no discrimination, and here when I propose something for vaccines, I think of every citizen in Stoc and in Calesia BiH, I never asked for anything. is voted in favour of the Republic of Serbia. [[the speaker is warned on time]] The oath has nothing to do with who you represent, the oath is an act of respect for what you have passed.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9739	Thank you. Representative Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, debate, please. 67
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9740	So I'd like to go back on the subject, and that's the choice of this, uh, working body. I think, first of all, that in this Conclusion on the formation of this Interresor Working Group, absolutely no deadline has been set, which is also one of the shortcomings, because in that case, this Interresor Working Group can work infinitely and that, therefore, we welcome the next elections without amending the Election Law. I don't want to talk about CEC anymore, because there's a lot of things being said here, I'd just like to point out once again, Article 2.5 point 6 of the Electoral Law, so we're not discussing it anymore. And also, I would ask the same question here, are we going to change the Election Law in a way that we do not apply the Constitution, because I ask the question – what about the implementation of the judgments and the International Court of Human Rights, but also with the judgments of international courts? And I also believe, as well as Čolo, that we cannot fit these rulings into the Election Law without amending the Constitution, in which I repeat, human rights are being violated and already all relevant and international and domestic factors have been identified, but here we never, or always have problems when we have to approach amendments to the Constitution, so I really don't know how we're going to do and make this Election Law, and I also of course believe that representatives and positions and opposition should participate in the work of this group, as well as representatives of the CEC. I would just remind you that, here, said Mr. Helez, it seems to me, that the SDA has one responsibility today regarding voting the composition of this task force. I would just remind myself, that even the president of the SDA said that in the drafting of this Law of Election, Amendment and Supplement, representatives of all parliamentary parties should participate, and I think that this is actually the only and the right way, but I repeat again, I am not sure how we will change it without amending the Constitution, if we want to implement the rulings, but if we do not, if we will only technical changes in terms of the technical process, so whether we will have e-evidents etc. to avoid all that we've had so far, so all the great electoral thefts, etc. It's different, but it won't again be a comprehensive amendment to the election law.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9741	Thank you, counsel. Representative Damir Arnaut, debate, here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9742	Thank you, Chairman. You see, when it comes to jurisdiction, so to start amendments and amendments to the law, I just said, under the CEC Election Law, that changes to the Election Law can be initiated, here we heard that you disagree that the CEC should do so. MPs also have the right to, whether to initiate amendments and amendments to the laws, but from a session to a session whenever a legislative proposal is found here, Mr Lovrinović, who has spent his replicas, claims MPs should not do so, that this should be done by the Council of Ministers. When we get here, the system laws as he calls them, when we come to the Council of Ministers when it comes to the Election Law, so this is not the Public Procurement Act and something where there are and economies, when it comes to the election law, it's the sole jurisdiction of the Justice Department. Now you see, Sejdic-Finci's verdict was reached in Strasbourg in December 2009, then Justice Minister Bariša Čolak and remained Justice Minister for five years after the verdict of Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci and you now want Bariša Čolak to put him in the Interresor Working Group, the man for five years was the minister of justice after Sejdic-Sejdić-Finac did nothing about it, nothing and you want to put him in this Interresor Working Group. It shows me that you want to do nothing about it. Mr. Josip Grubeša, also from HDZ, the minister of justice, will tomorrow be exactly six years, meaning he has exceeded Mr. Bariša Čolak, whether, when it comes to the length of the term of office after the decision, he is 68-judged by Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci. Now I don't understand what you're doing, so the Joint College, the SDA, the HDZ, the SNSD, proposes Bariša Čolak, who has done nothing for five years on the issue of Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci in this Interresor Working Group. The same Joint College, SDA, HDZ, SNSD, proposes to Josip Grubeša that for the past six years, tomorrow, he has done nothing about the implementation of Sejdic-Sejdić-Finac, and then you say he can't, and then you say he needs a system of MPs, so who will. I can't, sir, here I've got a ruling from Pilav in Strasbourg, I've represented the official Ilijaz Pilav in Strasbourg, I've got that verdict, I can't, no problem, but give someone who can, and Bariša Čolak and Josip Grubeša, but also these three parties SDA, HDZ and SNSD have shown that they can't, and someone who can come in '22. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9743	We've exhausted the debate on this agenda point. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 19. Ad. 19. Considering the parliamentary initiative of Zukan Helez "delegating the BiH Council of Ministers to deliver at least one law to the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives and to include it in the first April session, and to deliver at least one law from the 14 priorities set by the European Commission to the BiH authorities by the end of the current year, issue: 01-50-1415/21 of 16. 2. 2021. The College of the House of Representatives has designated the Joint Commission for European Integration as responsible for considering this initiative, the Joint Committee delivered its opinion and adopted the modified initiative, which is now: On the basis of Article 8. I submit the Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives' House of Representatives to "the Council of Ministers' initiative to refer priority laws to which BiH would be credible in obtaining candidate status by June 2021". I'm opening a debate on this initiative. For the debate, representative Zukan Helez, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9745	I thank the chairman. This initiative came after, in my opinion, a complete stalemate on BiH's path to European integration. Here, I'd say, I'd like to schedule that Council of Ministers meeting, and this, what they say, is complete and total. EU representatives, the European Commission wanted us to travel this road to the EU and they gave us 14 priorities, which we should meet in order to get EU candidate status in the European Union. I will only list a few things that EU representatives insist on, and what we all need, is the rule of law, it's freedom of human rights, freedom of the media, systematic surveillance of the border, asylum and migrants, so it's all 69 of what we have huge problems in, then electoral legislation is mentioned there, here we have seen how much this is, uh, complicated and how much we need. There are not only laws, there are certain initiatives, international conventions, then certain strategies, but for us are the key few laws. People have precisely diagnosed the major problem in BiH, so they have proposed amendments and additions to certain laws. The first Law on VSTV, one of the essential elements, is to avoid political influence on the choice of judges and prosecutors, among other things. Then, the second law, which is very important, is the Law on Public Procurement, I will remind you that today is the highest segment of crime and corruption in public procurement, after the privatisation and donations that occurred in the postwar period, the most money on these things is estranged today and through the tax ejaculation on various, uh, levels. Then, electoral legislation and the Law on the Suk Obajek. I'll try to get close to you now, and you most of you know what it looks like, what crime and corruption are made of. Today we saw through the discussion that CEC members are choosing political parties to thank political parties, mostly those in power, the CEC members are organising elections to win the ruling parties. In what way? So simply through election committees and through a series of other failures where they won't respond in an adequate legal manner, they let those breaks win. After that, it is the Electoral Law, after the party's victory is won by the party's party president or by the leadership of the cabinet of a minister, who is similar. The minister works through public procurement for a particular party, meanwhile, companies that establish or members of families from certain influential people in parties or influential members are formed. So these companies get jobs with these, with this minister, and that's one closed circle. Maybe now those who are in power are normal and good and silent because of their bosses, but the coming period will change power, I think we all need this, to stop this, because I want to remind you that these 14 priorities are key to what we need to talk about here and what we need to adopt. In the past few months, twice as many have died as those born in BiH and this leads to a cataclysm. Now it's a problem for labour, and imagine in 10 to 15 years this country will be a desert, if we don't take it and make an ambience that our children don't go all over Europe and somewhere when they go, believe that both the people Ana Livna and Lejla from Bugojne and Vesna from Doboj, and here because of the political leaders and what I've listed earlier, they didn't even know each other, they were part of a divided, separate society. So I ask that... I ask the Council of Ministers to proceed with the adoption of these laws, otherwise if they do not do so this Council of Ministers will be remembered, of course and with part of the mandate of the last Council of Ministers, they will be remembered as someone who has driven more people from this country than aggression, rifles, cannons, camps, so we now have more people out after the war than during the war. I therefore ask the representatives of all parties to support this initiative and I would like to thank the members of both European Integration Commission members who unanimously supported this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9746	Thank you, counsel. Nikola Lovrinović, MPs, debate, here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9747	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I only answered because I was president of the Committee on European Integration, the Joint Commission of both homes, and to remind you fellow MPs, that you have the opinion of the Committee in which little of this initiative has been changed, which Mr Zukan did not say. So, and he accepted it on the Committee, so you vote on what was adopted 70 on the Committee on European Integration, so in a way, a slightly modified proposal of his, his initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-03-30-0.u9748	Thank you very much, thank you, and here's the representative, but that's what we said in the announcement that she was modified, uh, so. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Yeah. Thank you very much. With this, we've exhausted the debate on this agenda point. I'm closing the debate. Before we move to point 20, I suggest we bring the debate together by points 20 to 24, including 24, because it is about giving consent to ratifying material. Please make it clear that we can bring the debate together at these points. Of the 36 present – for 26, no objection, abstentions 10. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I find that we have united the debate according to points 20 to 24. Ad. 20. - Ad. 24. Giving consent to the ratification of materials
