ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10071	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests. I am opening the 20th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I warmly welcome all present representatives and guests. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] The absence from today's session was justified by representatives: Nenad Nešić, Zlatan Begić, Dženan Đonlagić, Vlatko Glavaš, Enver Bijedić and Dragan Mektić. The BiH Council of Ministers' Office has notified that today's session will not be able to be attended by the chairman, Mr Zoran Tegeltija. There are 29 MPs present at this time, I find that the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As indicated in the call for a meeting and in accordance with Article 167. The Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session, before the debate on the agenda, will allow MPs to ask oral questions. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following BiH Foreign Minister Mirko Šarović, BiH Minister of Communications and Transport Damir Arnaut, BiH Council of Ministers Chairman Safet Softić, BiH Foreign Minister Adil Osmanović, BiH Council of Ministers Chairman Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, BiH Minister of Communications and Transport jasmin Emrić, Miro Pekić Minister of Finance and Treasury, Edita Đapo Minister of Security of BiH, Branislav Borenović, Minister of Communications and Transport of BiH, submitted the rules of procedure. Nenad Nešić sent an announcement to ask an oral parliamentary question to the BiH Council of Ministers chairman, but later announced he would not attend today's session. These announcements were made in accordance with Article 168(2) of the Rules of Procedure to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and to that member of the BiH Council of Ministers to whom the issue concerns. I would also like to remind you that direct television and radio transmission of this part of the session has been ensured in accordance with Article 167(1) of the Rules of Procedure. Now we can start by asking oral questions and by giving answers, we go in order to ask questions. I give my word to Deputy Mirko Šarović. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10072	Thank you. Here I am using the opportunity to refer to the respected minister a question which I believe he has received, and the relatively difficult position of the people, one part of the population of the southern part of Mostar, the most returnees of the Srbin, as regards their countries and the disputes that they have with the Federation of BiH highways and the route of part of Corridor 5C, and the question is: 2 Are you familiar with the problems of the returnees to Mostar, whose property is usurped by a simple change in the course of Corridor 5C, we think it is a question of change, which is a question of sustainable return when it comes to people who live mainly from agriculture? I suppose, distinguished ministers, that you also know that the expropriation is being carried out hastily through the competent institutions of the City of Mostar without the presence of the parties, I suppose you also know that it is the residents of Kosor, Mal Polje, Lakišina and Ortiš and you know, that they are asking for the confirmation of the ratification of the grant from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for one part of Corridor 5C until this issue is resolved, and that it is referred earlier to the BiH Presidency, and to vi, and to the Council of Ministers, and to the MPs of this House and they believe that their rights have been violated and that the question of this part of Corridor Mostar South – the Kwan tunnel, that they should go the other route. I ask your answer and what are you going to do about it as a resolute minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10073	Thank you, counsel. The answer, Minister of Transport and Communications of BiH, Mr Vojin Mitrović. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10074	Thank you very much. Madam Chairman, members of the Kolegijum, honourable MPs. I want to thank you for asking Mr. Mirko Šarović. How do we know the Ministry Act (the BiH Official Messenger), No. 5/03) has defined the jurisdiction of the state ministry. The BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport is responsible for the policy and regulation of joint and international communications devices; international, inter-entity transport and infrastructure; the preparation of contracts, agreements and other acts in the fields of international and inter-entity communications transport; relations with international organisations in the fields of international and inter-entity communications transport; the preparation and preparation of strategic plans from international, inter-entity communications, transport, infrastructure and information technologies; control activities, uninterrupted transport in international transport, as well as civil aviation and air traffic surveillance. In a concrete case, the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport financed from October 2004 to December 2006 the preparation of planer-study documentation for the entire course of the Corridor 5C highway through BiH, which included technical study, space-planning documentation bases, an idea solution to the environmental impact study with implemented legal procedures for adoption, which includes public discussions, an idea project, traffic studies, a previous feasibility study and feasibility studies. The Ministry also financed contracts for the construction of major projects for the 130 km-long project Corridor 5C highways for a section of the highway which according to the Performance Study is projected to have priority, which is practically around Mostar, then the northern border with Croatia, which is Svilaj, Vukosavlje, Doboj south and the bypass around Zenica. All the documents made have been submitted to the entity ministries, the Public Enterprise of the Federation of BiH, as well as the Public Enterprise of the Republika Srpska highways, which are responsible for building the 3 infrastructures in question. It can be concluded from this point on that this issue should be asked to the competent entity institutions responsible for implementing this issue. You have, at the end of your presentation, asked one question about the depriving of the grenade for the construction of this stock due to the dissatisfaction of a certain section of the population, which is dissatisfied with the route of that part of the highway. I would like to point out once again that the resolution ministry is not in charge of these problems but entity issues, and the issue of grenades is a matter that needs to be addressed at the level of the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Finance, and see how compromise can possibly be reached. We had a similar situation in Republika Srpska, where we had around the area of Prijedor the dissatisfaction of the Bosniak population, where the Bosniak population with entity governments managed to find a solution, which means that in this case, too, it is expected that the population would find an adequate solution, but a resorient ministry, whose head I am absolutely free of authority on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10075	Thank you, Your Honor. Does the representative want to comment on the answer? Here's your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10076	Yeah, sure, I'll take a minute, thank you for the opportunity. Well, I think at least one fact is clear, that the Honorable Minister said that they have no intention of being involved, that it is not their jurisdiction, and if there is anything good, it is that at least we know quite clearly that it is none of their business and that it will not be included in this. But I warn that there will probably be a situation where you will be interested in it and how, because you should know that citizens from this area and not only Srbin but also other nationalities will send a letter to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and ask – do they support discrimination against vulnerable, vulnerable categories of population? And then they will address the EBRD Assembly, which this year will be held, where under pressure will be the Management Board and the President of the EBRD and then it will come to you, the Honorable Ministers, and then you will probably urgently have to seek appropriate solutions... The EBRD in its policy, if such cases occur, stops projects, which is a pity for Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10077	Thank you, counsel. I give my word to Representative Damir Arnaut. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10078	Thank you, Chairman. The issue has been addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, any of his deputies from the College may answer. So, as early as last August, nine months ago, I asked the BiH Monitoring Institute about the potential involving of the Institute and Director Džemić in the "Respiratori“ affair. The Institute argues that it prepared a draft reply and sent it to the Council of Ministers for the final determination of 03.09. But in the 11th month and at the end of April, I received the answer that the issue was removed from the agenda, i.e. the answer to my questions removed from the Council of Ministers' agenda. This must be the first time in seven, four eight years that this has happened, for the Council of Ministers to take off the agenda something that some answer whose draft was prepared, and I'm pretty sure, given whether, in bureaucratic nature, it never happened in post-day Bosnia and Herzegovina. Pringing Tegeltija told the media that it was removed from the agenda at the request of a member of the College, so either Tegeltija, or Bevanda, or Minister Turković and my question is: Who is asking to take it off the agenda and why is it removed? And I ask that someone or the chairman of the Council of Ministers or one of his deputies in that College answer me what happened to this, because there are obviously answers related to the involvement of this Institute in the "Respiratori“ affair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10079	Thank you, counsel. The answer is, that is, the question is addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, we have a legitimate absence from today's session announced, I do not see that anyone has and that the MP asked from the College of Ministers. Do any of the Council of Ministers, the minister, have powers to answer this question? There's no one here. Mr. Representative, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10080	Thank you, Chairman. From what I understand when you spoke, only the chairman of Tegelti justified his absence, I have not heard that you have read the justification of the other two deputies. However, I am now taking this opportunity to remind myself that this is the 20th session of the House of Representatives and that Foreign Minister Bisera Turković, who never misses to title himself as the deputy chairman of the Council of Ministers in a statement, never appeared at this session after the first one he was appointed to. So, I don't know that we've ever had a situation where a minister, on a continuous 19-session basis, doesn't come before this House, although at every session we have a question, among other things, for the Foreign Ministry. I have serious indications here that this particular minister, in his capacity as vice-president, has requested the removal of this, this response from the College, and I ask that these responses be delivered to me as soon as possible in writing and this one also asks that the College take measures to ensure conditions for the work of Members, and between the working conditions is, is the possibility of bringing questions to all ministers in the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10081	Thank you, counsel. So he's looking for a written answer to this question. We move on to the next question, MP Safet Softić. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10082	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Dear colleagues. 5 My question is about the special and parallel relations of entities with neighbouring countries. Namely, the entity's competence to establish special and parallel relations with neighbouring countries in accordance with the sovereignty and territorial integrity of BiH is defined by the BiH Constitution in Article III (2) (a) given that the entity's respective competences are realised in accordance with the state sovereignty and territorial integrity, my question to the foreign ministry is as follows: Does the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs possess information on the content and implementation of the signed contracts, contract annexes, protocols, memorandums and total supporting documents between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia and does the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs possess information on the content and implementation of the Agreement establishing special parallel relations between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, the annexes of the Agreement, the Protocols, the Memorandum and the overall accompanying documentation?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10083	Thank you, Agent Softić. The issue has been addressed to the BiH foreign minister, we have no presence, no application, so please welcome a representative to comment on yours.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10084	Since the Minister is not present for today's session, I will pray in writing for an answer, and then after that I will provide more information about what I asked today.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10085	Thank you very much. We find the MP asking for a written reply from BiH Foreign Minister Mrs Bisera Turković. The next parliamentary issue is MP Adil Osmanović. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10086	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and fellow MPs. My parliamentary question has been addressed to the BiH Council of Ministers, asking him to provide data on the compliance of the staff structure in all statuses at the Institute for the Implementation of Criminal Sanctions, Detentions and other measures in Bosnia and Herzegovina with the latest census. Reason: This request is in accordance with Article 8. Labour law in BiH institutions and provisions of Article 2. The law on state service in BiH institutions, which correctly states that the employer is obliged in the structure of employees to reflect the national structure of the population according to the latest census.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10087	Thank you for representing Osmanović. 6 The answer should be given by the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Does anyone outside the Council of Ministers have an answer for this? Minister of Justice, please, Josip Grubeša.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10088	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, members of the College, distinguished MPs, MPs, colleagues from the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. In short, it means that the Internal Organisation and Systematization of Jobs of the Institute for the Implementation of Criminal Sanctions, Detentions and Other Measures of BiH is classified as confidential, according to the said can't be the exact number of persons employed indefinitely in the Office for the safety of employees, but we can provide you with percentages of employees according to national membership as follows by Bošnjak 36%, Srbin 44%, Hrvat 16.%, other 2%. It is still important to note that this is a new institution where the fluctuation of employees, new employees, is very large and for this reason these percentages change from month to month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10089	Thank you, Minister Grubeši. Agent, does he want to comment on the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10090	Thank you. I'd like to ask for an answer in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10091	Thank you very much. The next parliamentary issue comes from MP Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10092	I wanted to ask the question of the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and could also answer the deputy chairman that there is, and this is about Bosnia and Herzegovina's participation in the World Exhibition, so EXPO Dubai 2020, which will be held this year in the fall due to the fact that it has been delayed due to the pandemic of the coronary virus. It is evident from the media that Bosnia and Herzegovina could remain the only country that will have an empty pavilion at this prestigious world fair, thus experiencing a huge disgrace, for we do not know which time, when it comes to economic diplomacy, and on the other hand, you could also be disrupting relations between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the United Arab Emirates, because, because this country has given it some knowledge, so, the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The agreement on participation in this exhibition, therefore, was signed by the former, by the ambassadors of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the United Arab Emirates in the previous term, but nothing has been done at the Bosnia and Herzegovina Pavilion in this World Exhibition. So, the top representatives of the United Arab Emirates wrote on several occasions that the competent Ministry of Trade and Economic Relations, as well as the chairman of the Council of Ministers, would therefore warn that 7 cancellation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's participation in this survey would lead to serious disturbances in bilateral, political relations, cast a shadow over the two countries' partnership and would cause a lot of inconvenience to the organiser, and also indicate that the United Arab Emirates would seek compensation for the absence of Bosnia and Herzegovina's participation, which could be moved, means up to $1 million and $500. The budget for this exhibition is, therefore, And in the previous session, it's even reduced by a million and it's about 3.382,400 KM, but here we see that nothing is working on this and that, I think, no one thinks about the consequences. [[Advocacy is warned on time]] So is it better to add another million and participate in an exhibition or pay a fine that would be 2,400,000 KM according to the current rate?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10093	Thank you. Does anyone from the Council of Ministers, since the chairman is not present, have any authority to answer? There isn't. MPs, here's your comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10094	I will join my fellow Arnaut's comment, where we see that the vice-president, who has not justified her absence, is once again gone, would also be a suitable person to answer this question as head of our diplomacy and I think this is an unprecedented underestimation of this House, since this is the ministry that owes us and answers the biggest number of questions from all the other ministries in the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10095	Thank you very much. Representative jasmin Emrić, you have the word representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10096	I thank the chairman. I ask the question of the Minister of Communications and Transport of BiH: Is the Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH familiar or consulted by the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure of the Republic of Croatia prior to the adoption of the Public Roads Regulations on which the transit of cargo vehicles must take place through the Republic of Croatia, since the degree of effect of the said Regulation of 20 May of the current year prohibits transit through the border crossing of Velika Klamuda – Maljevac vehicles whose total mass exceeds 7.5 tonnes, and what does the Ministry intend to take to reopen this border crossing for the transit of goods vehicles without that restriction? I'll brief and explain the question. On 3 May, the Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure of the Republic of Croatia adopted that Regulation, which entered into force on 20 May. Subject Regulation lays down public roads in the Republic of Croatia that allow transit of vehicles whose total mass exceeds 7,5 tonnes and which are alone or with a connected vehicle of more than 14 metres. What is controversial, especially for the Unsko-San canton, is that in Article 2 of that Regulation on the state roads is not 8 included and the state road (D216) Vojnic – Kolarić, the border crossing of Maljevac, the border of BiH in Velika Kladuja. This public road so far has led to transit of cargo vehicles without restrictions across the border crossing of Veliki Klajuda – Maljevac. For example, in 2019 the traffic of freight traffic was over 7.5 tonnes through the border crossing of Velika Klajuda – Maljevac was over 20,000 trucks, i.e. a daily freight transport was carried through this border crossing of about 50 to 60 trucks. The ban on transit through the border crossing of Velika Klamuma – Maljevac, which took place since 20 May of this year, is a new and significantly difficult environment for a large number of economic operators in the area of the UN-San canton which are export-export-oriented. This ban on transit through the border crossing in Velika Kladuma directly affects the increase of transport costs for all goods and products to be exported via the Republic of Croatia to other Western European countries, as the rerouting of transit traffic to other border crossings significantly increases transport route. [[representative is warned on time]] I'm asking the minister to respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10097	Thank you, counsel. Answer, Minister of Communications and Transport BiH, Mr. Vojin Mitrović. Excluse the ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10098	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members of Parliament, gospodin Emrić, thank you for asking the question. This is a problem that has been going on for about four, five days, and unfortunately I can announce that we have heard this problem, that is to say, we are, unfortunately, from the media and from carriers carrying certain goods. On 20.05.2021, the decision on the determination of public roads on which the transit traffic of freight cars must take place through the Republic of Croatia has been in force since 01 January 2009, it is an old rule. The rules on the determination of public roads on which transit transport of goods vehicles must take place through the Republic of Croatia entered into force on 20.05.2021, just as you said. The entry into force of the decision on the determination of public roads on which transit traffic of freight cars must take place through the Republic of Croatia, which was made in 2009. The border crossing agreement, which is directly related to transport, i.e. transit, because border crossings are border crossings, and the border crossings agreement between BiH and the Republic of Croatia was signed in Brussels in 2013. The Treaty also treats the border crossing in the Great Kladhua as a border crossing for international road traffic of passengers, vehicles and goods, regardless of their origin, or the country from which they come, unless otherwise governed by international contracts, as well as for goods subject to inspection. We have here an automatic adoption of this Regulation has been violated practically by the Treaty signed in 2013. The contract is within the BiH Security Ministry's jurisdiction. The Regulation restricts the transit of freight cars with or without trailers, whose total mass exceeds 7.5 tonnes, which are alone or with a trailer up to 14 metres long, and which is passed under the Law on the Roads of the Republic of Croatia. From the very moment of knowledge of this problem, the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport has reported on the problem of the European Commission through the Transport Community, and has taken up a number of activities to resolve this problem through bilateral contact with Minister Butković and the removal of the current failure. We didn't wait, not for a moment, really, and I spoke to Mr. Butković last night, again, pointing to this problem of the Great Claudius border crossing. My people are currently working together with the people of the Ministry of the Sea and Transport of the Republic of Croatia, to solve this problem and, as you yourself said, a large number of businessmen are blinking huge damage, because this border crossing is very important and practically the only one for the crossing of a truck whose total mass is greater than 7.5 tonnes and practically have no limits, and I expect in the course of the day to solve this problem by bilateral means. In what way are we going to solve this, be sure that we are doing everything in our power and I repeat again, perhaps one incorrect thing on the Croatian side that we were not warned in time, because a large number of carriers were headed in that direction, and then there was a problem that I could not cross that road, I can not cross that border crossing, because the border crossing that was defined by the 2013 Treaty practically prohibiting the territory of that highway is losing its function. I expect that during the day of solving this problem and that all businessmen are satisfied, once again, I am truly sorry that this relationship happened between the resolution ministry, headed by Mr. Butković and I, because we have extremely good and correct relations on co-operation in infrastructure facilities and indeed expect it during the day that this problem will be resolved to mutual satisfaction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10099	Thank you, Minister, for your response. Does the representative want to comment on the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10100	First of all, I would like to thank the Honorable Minister for his full answer. But here, to point out, by estimating the importance especially for the UN-San canton, that the border crossing in the Great Kladuma, i.e. Maljevac, should perform its overall function for the transport of goods and goods without restrictions, and thus facilitates the maintenance of existing business activities in this northwestern part of Bosnia and Herzegovina where, we must stress, the positional benefits for close European companies are a comparative advantage and a factor for attracting investment, so I ask you once again, Minister, to fully engage, as you are already doing, in order to return this as quickly as possible, but also other border crossings to the regime of work prior to the adoption of the Regulation in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10101	Thank you very much. Next parliamentary issue, MP Mira Pekić. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10102	Thank you, Chairman. My question was asked by the Minister of Finance and Treasury in the Council of Ministers of BiH, and concerns the amendment and addition of the Excise on Cigarettes and Tobacco Act. We are witnessing that lately there has been a lot of talk about this problem, we have witnessed that the budget for last year, as regards excise duties on cigarettes, is lower by 157 million compared to 2019 and that the revenues from excise duties on cigarettes are also falling in the first three months of 2021. We also had in the House of Representatives, i.e. on the Commission for Budget and Finance one bill that would introduce moratorians to the price, to the level of excise duty on cigarettes and tobacco, this would, this moratorium predicted that the level of excise duty would be returned on the mark and fifty, today it is a mark and 65 per pack and a pack of cigarettes, so that the team was scheduled to be introduced for 10 2019, 2020, 2021. The proposal to amend and supplement the law by the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Finance has been returned, no proposal has ever come again to regulate this area. For this reason, I believe that it is high time for the excise duties on cigarettes to return to the level regardless of the directives which, we and more than the EU directive have reached, and in order to stabilise the market and reduce the black market, my question was directed to the finance minister and the text was: Did the Ministry of Finance in the Council of Ministers consider the possibility of amending the Excise Law, which would introduce the mortuaries on excises and tobacco to at least three years, and in order to stabilise the market and prevent the spread of the black market of cigarettes? Since the minister is not present, I will ask the question in oral, written form and I will expect a written reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10103	Thank you, Your Honor. But as far as I can tell, Deputy Minister, Mr. Hazim Rančić is present and wishes to give an answer, so please welcome Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10104	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, MPs, ministers, deputy ministers, distinguished guests. I thank the honourable MEP Pekić for asking the question, and I am giving the next answer to this question. The basic legal framework for the current policy of taxation of tobacco processing is the Act on the Excises of BiH and the decision of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board on the determination of specific and minimum excise duties on cigarettes and the amount of excise duties on tobacco for smoking. The excise duties on cigarettes are, therefore, a proportionate excise duty which is 42% of the retail price involving taxes and a specific excise duty established in KMs per pack or KMs per thousand pieces of cigarettes, and this other specific excise duty is therefore determined by the decisions of the Management Board of indirect taxation, the determination of specific and minimum excise duties, i.e. excise duties on cigarettes and the amount of excise duties on the spirit of smoking. Such a decision, which is in force, was published for 2021 in "The Official Messenger of BiH", No. 78/20. Since the legal ceiling of the total excise duty on cigarettes of 176 marks per thousand cigarettes was reached for all the price categories of cigarettes in 2019, harmonisation with EU standards in the field of cigarette taxation ended, which means that the latest increase in the specific excise duty on cigarettes was for 2019. Since 2019, a specific excise duty has not changed and amounts, as you said in your case 1.65 KM per pack or a total of 82.50 KM per thousand pieces of cigarettes. As for smoking tobacco, smoke tobacco excise is determined in the minimum excise duty procedure on cigarettes expressed by a thousand pieces of cigarettes, with a legal minimum of 80% minimum excise duty on cigarettes. According to the decision of the Management Board of indirect taxation for the year 2021, the excise duty on tobacco for smoking is 130 KM per kilogram. There have been certain activities on this issue, not directly to your question, but here I will tell you, and I want you all to hear it, in November 2020, the Direct Taxation Administration made certain amendments and additions, but the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board returned them to the processing of the Direct 11 Taxation Administration, on 22 March 2021, established amendments and complemented the said Act of Accises, but they treat the stamps in a way that is intended to offer payment of these stamps later, rather than in advance how the existing solution is. So in both activities, there was no consideration of the amount of excise duties and the possible reduction, because we had the intensity to comply with our rules with EU standards and then we came to the amount I read and which is in force. So, right now, we don't have a procedure, so the Excise Act that would refer to the level of excise duty on cigarettes and a cut spirit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10105	Thank you, Deputy Minister. Agent, does she want to comment on the answer? Thank you very much. We move on to the next parliamentary issue, I give my word to the MPs Editi Đapo. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10106	Thank you, esteemed chairman. My respects to you, the co-chair, as well as fellow Members and fellow Members of the Council of Ministers and other guests. My question is addressed to the Minister of Security, and it says: When will the provisions of the current decisions on crossing state borders be amended, so that the immunised persons or persons who have been over the Kovid in the past six months can enter BiH without a PCR test, as well as the regime for the entry of citizens from Montenegro or our citizens who are going to Montenegro in a way that allows them to use the fastest and best highway towards our country or Montenegro, which leads across Serbia? So, we know that the old Council of Ministers' decision is still in force, which does not recognise the entry of immunised persons or persons who have been over the Kovid in the last 6 months without a PCR test, and since such persons are no longer a health hazard, I think we should go in the way of revising these decisions, as countries do, whether, in our environment and in the EU. I also want to highlight the problem of all of our citizens who are heading north to Montenegro or Montenegro who want to visit BiH that they cannot use them, or must go directly from Montenegro to BiH, so use the crossing, let's say, through Pljelja and means using an inadequate path that is in a catastrophic state and extending the journey by two hours instead of using as before, is this over, the way through Prijebo or Prijepolj, which is much better and shortens, of course, the journey. Here, please, Minister of Honor for the Answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10107	Thank you, counselor. The BiH Security Minister's response, Mr Selmo Cikotić. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10108	Dear Madam Chairman, members of the College, distinguished representatives, colleagues and colleagues. 12 Dear Representatives Đapo The Ministry of Security of BiH delivered to the Secretary-General of the Council of Ministers a proposal to amend and supplement the Decision to prescribe additional conditions for the entry of foreigners into Bosnia and Herzegovina, the decision was included on the agenda of tomorrow's Council of Ministers meeting, and I think it will be adopted tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10109	Thank you, Minister. Does the representative want to comment on the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10110	I thank, uh, the Honorable Minister and encourages that tomorrow the Council of Ministers will decide on the regime of our tourists' entry and, of course, our diaspora, given that the summer season is starting and that this is extremely important for all of us in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10111	Thank you. The next parliamentary issue, as well as the last one from today's session, I give my word to Representative Branislav Borenović. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10112	Thank you. My question is the Minister of Communication and Transport about a mass phenomenon that has been going on for a long time, and it concerns the destruction of traffic signs and plates, a sign with a Cyrillic letter. In almost all travel communications and settlements in one part of BiH, and primarily three cantons, the West Herzegovina, the Herzegovic-Neretva and the Lithuanian Canton, causing one huge concern, anxiety and discomfort of a large number of citizens who contacted me and asked me to ask you – What can be done specifically to stop this Serbian vandalism? It is amazing that even in the new travel communication through Bosnia and Herzegovina to the city of Neum, the same thing is happening, but now with the notation and the addition of one sign, the letters in which the ascension is glorified, and I ask you that this question is very important and to see what is possible to do, can the Ministry at all take certain steps to stop this one vandalism that destroys all the signs that have a Cyrillic letter in them. What is amazing is that even in certain settlements, municipalities and cities, in these three cantons, local authorities have probably beautiful Cyrillic names and thus shown their relationship to the official letter in this country that is required to be used. Believe that this is a question that many people and citizens rightly ask and that is why I expect you to have a very specific, adequate answer to go in the direction of solving something that causes a serious problem in people.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10113	Answer, Minister of Communications and Transport BiH, Mr. Vojin Mitrović. Here you go, Minister. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10114	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Members of the Kolegijum, honourable MPs, thank you for asking Mr. Borenović. The ministry law states that the Ministry of Transport and Communications, among other things, is responsible for international, inter-entity transport and infrastructure. This Ministry is in charge of the Law on Border Control, as well as the Regulation on the format and content of the markings and other traffic signalling, marking the border pellage and its area, the proximity of the border line, as well as the way in which these markings and signals are placed, which is defined as "the Official Messenger of BiH", No. 103/12 to place and maintain tags and other traffic signals at border crossings in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This Regulation prescribes the form, content, way of placing labels and other traffic signals at the border crossing and border crossing area and along the state border line, in accordance with Article 12, the inscriptions shall be printed in Latin and Cyrillic letters, in official languages in use in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and shall in particular be written in English. The Ministry of Communications and Transport is tasked with monitoring and maintaining the alarm signalling at border crossings, while the entity's traffic signalling remains. In the asked question I received from you, this second part of the question was not contained, and it refers directly to certain cantons. You saw yourself that the resolution ministry is not in charge of signalling the journey at entity level, but only for the issue of border and border crossings. At this point, we're familiar with these problems in principle, at this point we don't have jurisdiction, but what we can do at this point is to direct one initiative or possibly form some group that will go around and do an analysis and send to the entity's resolution ministries and point to these phenomena. And I would ask you for the specific information that you have at your disposal, to deliver to the Ministry, and on this basis we will launch this issue to bring it down to the entity level and try these certain deviations, which are indeed present, to be removed, because it is clearly defined both by the Law and the Regulation and the form and contents and the letter, so there is absolutely no room for some manipulations. And why is that happening? Of course, there are competent institutions that need to act and react to removals at given times and for that in some way to beautify or delete letters, and these institutions really have to do their job because, I repeat, it is defined by both the Law and the Regulation. Once again, please deliver what you have and we will act in our jurisdiction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10115	Thank you, Minister. Does the representative want to comment on the answer? You have your word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10116	There's no problem in delivering, there's no sign that the Cyrillic isn't crossed, that you know in these environments. Whoever finds one is to deliver, and I will deliver to you dozens of such labels and I think it is very important that you said that the law is clearly precise, sublegal acts are precise, that it is a violation of the law and that everything should be done to make an inspection record and that it is corrected, especially because you have the possibility as a member and a political option that has one kind of responsibility when it comes to these cantons, participates in some of these 14 cantons, and therefore I would appeal to you to use your authority, not only as a transport and communication minister, but a member of the political option that participates in some of these cantons, to stop this. Because this is a mass phenomenon that is not only illegal, but it is doing enormous damage to one part of the citizens, members of the Serbian people and those who use Cyrillic as an official letter in this country and, of course, I am asking you for a written answer, and you will get a concrete proposal from me.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10117	Thank you very much, Your Honor. With this, we have exhausted questions, answers, and comments on questions. And now we're moving on to the agenda. As regards the change of the session agenda, I would like to point out that the following is added to the session agenda: Point 39. Giving consent to the retrieval of the Grant Treaty (Project Corridor Vc2, Subdivision of Buna – Holiday) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development relating to investment support from the European Joint Fund for the Western Balkans, issue: 01,02-21-1-1030/21, of 13.05.2021. The previous agenda was downloaded: point 7. Discussing Edita Đapo joint initiative, "in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers and the competent Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH, that, within three months at the latest, the proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Road Safety in BiH, for the purpose of supplementing the law in question by breaking provisions and in connection with 'violent behaviour in transport'", at the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications for the absence of a proposal. The following are added: point 4. Proposal for a Law on the High Prosecutor's Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Representatives from the DF Club, with Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission. Point 5. Proposal for a Law on the High Judicial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Representatives from the DF Club, with Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission. Point 6. Proposal for a law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's Disciplinary Prosecutor's Office, the promoters: representatives of the DF Club, with the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission. The opinions of the Constitutional Commission are negative for the second time. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. I don't see any reports. I'm closing the debate on the agenda. I find that the 20th session of the House has the agenda that you received with the invitation. Agenda 1. The adoption of the Minutes of the 19th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH; 15 2. Comments on questions received; 3. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Procurement (P.Z.E.I.), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1-495/21, dated 1603.2021, shortened procedure (second reading); 4. Proposal for a Law on the High Prosecutor's Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Representatives of the DF Club, issue: 01-02-1-2375/20, of 15.03.2021. (first reading), with the opinion of the Constitutional Commission; 5. Proposal for a Law on the High Judicial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Representatives of the DF Club Law No: 01-02-1-2377/20, of 15.03.2021. (first reading) with the opinion of the Constitutional Commission; 6. Proposal for a Law on the Office of Discipline Prosecutors of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposers: Representatives of the DF Club, Law No 01-02-1-2376/20, of 15.03. 2021. (first reading) with the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission; 7. Proposal for a Law amending Bosnia and Herzegovina's Penal Code, Proposer: Agent Denis Zvizdić, number: 01-02-1-895/21, of 26.04.2021. (First Reading); 8 / 8 Report from the Joint Committee of both homes on the achievement of the same text of the Law on Temporary Measures in the work of BiH's judicial and other bodies during the state of natural or other disasters on Bosnia and Herzegovina (proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH), issue: 01,02-50-14-961-21, since 11/05.2021; 9. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal of Representative Dragan Mektić, who reads: "I propose an initiative to supplement the agenda of the 19th session of the ZD PSBiH, which reads: The BiH Council of Ministers is tasked with delivering within seven days the Reform Programme for 2019 (Defense) and the Defence Reform Programme for 2020 (adopted by the competent commission) as well as the NATO document, the same which was delivered to the BiH Mission in Brussels during April this year," issue: 01-50-1916/21, since 29/04.2021; 10. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on whether the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement (P.Z.E.I.) will be held.) Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, in a second reading, due to the absence of the applicant (in accordance with Article 74(3) of the Rules of Procedure), 01.02-02-1-495/21, of 29.04.2021; 11. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal of Representative Jasmin Emrić to discuss the interpretation of MPs: Predrag Kojović, Nermin Nikšić, Aida Baručija, Saša Magazinović, Nada of Mladina, Zukan Helez, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepić and Damir Arnaut, which reads: "The Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives asks the Council of Ministers to prepare and deliver within 60 days to discuss and adopt the economic damage recovery plan caused by the pandemic COVID-19 and the recovery of the economy in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period 2021. – 2025", number: 01-50-1-756/21, from 29.04.2021; 12. The Commission’s report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the request of a representative from the SDA Club for the examination of the Proposal for a Law amending the Value Added Tax Act by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, No. 01-02-1-751/21, of 29.04.2021; 13. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the request of MPs: Nermin Nikšić, Saša Magazinović, Nada of Mladina and Zukan Helez to consider the draft law supplementing the Law on the financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, No. 01-02-1-862/21, of 21.04.2021; 14. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the request of MPs: Nermin Nikšić, Saša Magazinović, Nada of Mladina and Zukan Helez for 16th Review of the Proposal for a Law amending Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, No. 01-02-1-863/21, of 21.04.2021; 15. Report by the College of Colleges on efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Representatives Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepić and Aida Baručija (law in first reading), No: 01-02-1-567/21, of 29/04-2021; 16. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the Annual Report of the Central Bank of BiH for 2020, No: 01-50-18-738/21, since 29/04.2021; 17. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the parliamentary initiative of representatives from the SDA Club, which reads: "We propose that the BiH Defence Ministry for the Parliamentary House of BiH constitute a report on the working conditions of members of the Armed Forces of BiH, including their official, personal, family and overall social standards, and that it eventually proposes measures to improve the standards of members of the Armed Forces of BiH", number: 01-50-1-418/21, since 29.04.2021; 18. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for a conclusion from the Joint Defence and Security Committee of BiH's opinion on the Aida Baručija's parliamentary initiative, Branislav Borenović, Dženan Đonlagić, Edita Đapo, Jasmin Emrić, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepić, Saša Magazinović and Šemsudin Mehmedović "which is required that the task force to combat trafficking in human beings and organised illegal immigration, through the BiH Ministry of Security and the Council of Ministers of BiH, delivers a report to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on work for the period 2018. – 2020", which reads: "The Council of Ministers of BiH undertakes to submit a report to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on the work of the task force against trafficking in human beings and organised illegal immigration for 2018. — 2020, including 2020”, number: 01-50-1-496/21, of 29.04.2021; 19. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the Aida Baručija's parliamentary initiative, Branislav Borenović, Dženan Đonlagić, Edita Đapo, Jasmin Emrić, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, Saša Magazinović and Šemsudin Mehmedović "which requires the task force to fight human trafficking and organised illegal immigration, through the BiH Ministry of Security and the Council of Ministers, to deliver a report to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on work for the period 2018. – 2020", number: 01-50-1-496/21, since 29/04.2021; 20. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on Vlatko Glavaš' parliamentary initiative, which reads: "In the context of the historic success of 15-year-old swimmer Lane Pudar from Mostar, who, sailing A Olympic norm in the 100-metre dolphin's discipline, has set the best score in the history of Bosnian-Herzegovina swimming and the second best score in the world this year, I propose to the competent ministry and the Council of Ministers that this success adequately rewards. Also, I propose that Lani Pudar be provided with money for preparations and performances at the upcoming Olympic Games to be held in Tokyo", number: 01-50-1-628/21, from 29/04.2021; 21. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the modified Predrag Kojović parliamentary initiative, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, Aida Baručija and Damir Arnaut, which reads: "It is proposed to the BiH Council of Ministers that, with the aim of optimising the public procurement process, the achievement of savings and thus increasing the level of responsibility in spending budget money in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, form a central purchasing body within 180 days, in accordance with Article 4(2) of the Public Procurement Act and Article 2. Regulation implementing the procedure for joint procurement and the establishment of a central purchasing body", number: 01-50-1-684/21, of 29/04.2021; 17 22. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the Mire Pekić parliamentary initiative "by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives, in accordance with Article 35. Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH (the Official Messenger of BiH), No. 30/03, 42/03, 81/06, 76/07, 81/07, 94/07 and 24/08) obliges the BiH Council of Ministers to resolve, no later than 90 days from the date of adoption of this initiative, the issue of evaluation of civil servants who are justly absent from work, in such a way as to ensure the application of the already existing legal solution referred to in Article 53(3) of the Law on Labour in BiH institutions, or in the event that this is not possible, it shall also submit in the parliamentary procedure a proposal for amending and supplementing the Law on State Service in BiH institutions in the section relating to the assessment of the work of civil servants justly absent from work", number: 01-50-1699/21, since 29/04.2021; 23. Report on documents issued and denied requests for the issuing of external trade legislation for arms, military equipment and goods for special purpose 2018, applicant: Council of Ministers of BiH, No: 01,02-50-18-721/20, of 26.03.2020; 24. Report on the implementation of the external trade in arms, military equipment and goods of special purpose for 2018, applicant: Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH, issue: 01,02-50-18-926/21, since 28.04.2021; 25. Information on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2018 and 2019, applicant: BiH Ministry of Security, number: 01,02-50-18-534/21, link: 03-50-13-25-15/21, since 01.03.2021; 26. Information on the state of migration in Bosnia and Herzegovina for November 2020, applicant: Ministry of Security of BiH (realisation of the conclusion from the 16th session of the House of Representatives, held 03.02.2021), issue: 01-50-1-1749/20, since 12.03.2021; 27. Information on the state of migration in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2020, applicant: Ministry of Security of BiH (realisation of the 16th session of the House of Representatives, held on 03.02.2021).) number: 01,02-50-18-388/21, of 05.05.2021; 28. Information on the state of migration in Bosnia and Herzegovina for January 2021, applicant: The BiH Ministry of Security (realising the conclusion of the 16th session of the House of Representatives held on 03.02.2021).) number: 01,02-50-18-993/21, from 07.05.2021; 29. Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's public debt situation on 31.12.2020, applicant: BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury, number: 01.02-16-1-947/21, dated 30.04.2021; 30. Proposal for a Decision appointing the Council of the Regulatory Agency for Communications of BiH, Proposer: Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH, Number: 01,02-34-1-939/21, of 29/04.2021; 31. Appointment of a member of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Public Radio Television Service Management Board from the Bosniak people, applicant for the candidate ranking: Council of the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency, issue: 01.02-34-1-99/21, since 30.04.2021; 32. Appointment of a member of the Management Board of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public Radio Television Service from the Croatian people, applicant of the candidate ranking: Council of the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency, issue: 01.02-34-1-99/21, since 30.04.2021; 33. Appointment of a member of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public Radio and Television Service Management Board from the Serb people, applicant for the candidate ranking: Council of the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency, issue: 01.02-34-1-99/21, since 30.04.2021; 18 34. Appointment of a member of the Management Board of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public Radio Television Service from the ranks of others, applicant for the candidate ranking: Council of the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency, issue: 01.02-34-1-99/21, since 30.04.2021; 35. The conclusion by which the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives asks the Council of Ministers and the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of BiH for an urgent and maximum period of seven days from the date of adoption of this conclusion, production and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, following the urgent procedure of amending and supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of Bosnia and Herzegovina (‘the Official Messenger of BiH’, No 58/08), as well as the adoption of appropriate amendments to the Regulation on the procedure and way of granting marketing authorisation (‘the Official Messenger of BiH’, No 75/11), with the aim of enabling the vaccine against coronaryvirus (COVID-19), whose use has been previously approved by the European Medicines Agency or competent institutions of neighbouring countries, can be put into use and on the territory of BiH. These amendments and additions to that law and to the sublegal act would apply until the end of the declared pandemic COVID-19, Proposer: Agent Nenad Stevandić, number: 01-50-1-716/21, of 29.03. 021; 36. Consideration of Saša Magazinović's parliamentary initiative "in charge of the Council of Ministers of BiH to prepare within 60 days of the date of adoption of this initiative and to submit to the parliamentary procedure the Law on Tax on Digital Services", issue: 01-50-1 851/21, from 20.04.2021; 37. Giving consent to ratification of the Grant Treaty (Project Corridor 5c2, Subdivision: Tunel Zenica – Donja Gracanica) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development relating to the investment grant under the "European Joint Fund for the Western Balkans", issue: 01.02-21-1-898/21, of 27.04.2021; 38. Approving the ratification of Amendment No. 2 to the Agreement on Grant under the SIDA Investment Grant of BiH Munic WatSan in BiH concluded between Bosnia and Herzegovina (user) and the European Investment Bank (bank) on 30 April 2013 in Luxembourg and 14 May 2013 in Sarajevo, as amended on 25 September 2018. (Ggrant Agreement), number: 01,02-21-1-963/21, from 04.05.2021; 39. Giving consent to the retrieval of the Grant Treaty (Project Corridor Vc2, Subdivision of Buna – Holiday) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development relating to investment support from the European Joint Fund for the Western Balkans, issue: 01,02-21-1-1030/21, of 13.05.2021. Now we're going in the order of the agenda. Point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the 19th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10121	I have a comment on my parliamentary question delivered by the Council of Ministers, and it was said – what did the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees do, primarily leading to aneks vi of the dejtonski mirovni sporazum, in favour of the returnees of the Serbian and Bosniak nationalities in the territory of Herzegovina, or Mostar, where their settlements are headed by the amended route of the Vc corridor. I received an answer from the Ministry, or from the Council of Ministers, that the Ministry of Human Rights has carried out a check on the items received in relation to the route of the Vc corridor and that no submissions containing allegations of the impact of the route on the life of the returnee, nor from the aspect of the realization of Annex VII, nor from the aspect of human rights violations, and that there has been no activity on this matter. And here they are, calling me, is it, to deliver information if I have them related to this problem. What I would like to stress is that at least it is odd that the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees has no information on this problem since this problem is repeatedly highlighted in different ways, of course through the media, and that only one superficial search on the Internet could result in information related to this Vc corridor route. And among other things, it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, i.e. to oversee, therefore, the implementation of the Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement and to even carry out professional coordination of activities with the entity's competent ministries concerning refugees, displaced persons, the achievement of their status and other firsts, etc. So, here, I will, of course, deliver, here's only one piece of material that I'm going to deliver to the Ministry, but I hope the Ministry is going to do its job, because it looks like the employees of the Ministry are somewhere on Venus and we are on Mars, so they're unknown to the facts that are known to all of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And among other things, I also pointed out that even a request for protection was filed by a number of people living in this area. So it's completely incomprehensible that the Human Rights and Refugees Department has no record of this, or that it's not doing its job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10122	Thank you, counsel. No more reports. I'm also closing the debate on this agenda point. Moving to point three, Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Procurement (P.Z.E.I.), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1-495/21, dated 1603.2021, shortened procedure (second reading) That proposal for a law was adopted in the first reading at the 18th session of the House, held on 30.03.2021. The Commission for Finance and Budget submitted a report. The commission passed the bill of nine amendments. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. Representative Nermin Nikšić, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10124	I thank the esteemed chairman. I welcome all my colleagues and colleagues. I will pokušaću very briefly because I have not made an amendment, and the people who have addressed me have claimed that in the process of the debate they have tried to intervene on this part which is not covered by the amendments and additions of the Law, and I believe that, for the purpose of lawmaking, it is very important that, at least somewhere, perhaps for some future change, we have this in mind. In fact, the most common problems in the application of the Public Procurement Act occur with contracting authorities that have a problem with provisions that regulate the legal protection procedure in accordance with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, and in practice, certain procedures are often not to be completed for a very long, longer period of time. Namely, Articles 99 and 100. The law defines the way in which the complaint is made, as well as the contracting body's appeal procedure, and even in Article 101, the deadlines for the appeal are defined. However, Article 108. The law has been defined that the complainant is obliged to pay compensation for launching the appeal procedure in favour of the BiH institutions and international obligations, and is irrevocable in the event of an unfounded appeal. Now, what's happening to us? We all know that in practice we have those professional participants in the tender who complain about everything and after the statement of the appeal and the submission of the Board of Appeals, the complainant will most often not pay compensation for the appeal within the deadline. And then the Board of Appeal rejects the appeal as messy, because it is obliged to determine whether the complainant has paid the compensation before considering the complaint or not. Since complaints are most often made on tender documentation in this case, the procurement procedure continues but the contracting authority is again being appealed to the appeal, either by the same participant, by any other legal entity, which then invariably makes this proceedings difficult. That is why those who very often implement the Law on Public Procurement, say at least, tried to intervene in the process of passing the Law to be a member of 108. Paragraph 21 (3), i.e. adding a new position (4) where the compensation for the appeal would be provided for by a administrative procedure without suspending this procedure. However, I am saying that the applicants did not accept it, they did not install it, so, here, I would like to give a suggestion to the applicants that perhaps in some future, future amendments to the Law on this take account, because this problem obviously will not be solved by this change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10125	I'd like to thank the representative. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point four, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on the High Prosecutor's Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Representatives of the DF Club, issue: 01-02-1-2375/20, of 15.03.2021. (first reading), with the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission The legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion on 17 March 2021. The College has appointed a Constitutional Commission to consider the draft law. Last meeting of the House did not accept negative opinion of the Constitutional Legal Committee, and the Committee was tasked with drawing up a new opinion in accordance with Rule 113(3) of the Rules of Procedure. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion. The commission has not again established compliance with the draft law with the BiH Constitution and the legal system, nor supported the principles of the bill. I'm opening a debate on the Constitutional Commission's opinion. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to point five, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on the High Judicial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Representatives of the DF Club Law No: 01-02-1-2377/20, of 15.03.2021. (first reading) with the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10130	Thank you very much. I welcome distinguished colleagues in Kelgi, as well as distinguished MPs and MPs. I would like to remind you that the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly at a session held on 09.12.2020, without any vote against, adopted my parliamentary initiative, which is tasked by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Council of Ministers to prepare and to refer to the draft law on the prevention of hate speech on the Internet within 60 days of the date of adoption of the initiative, which will be in line with the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights, Recommendations and Conventions of the Council of Europe, the acquis of the European Union and the successful practices of the countries of the European Union. In view of the fact that the Council of Ministers has neither drawn up nor in the parliamentary procedure within the foreseen deadline, which has been repeatedly breached, sent this law, so I decided to approach the draft law, in this case the Law amending BiH's criminal law to try to prevent the hate speech that we now have in 23 public spaces and which is more than ever present. The hate speech is actually so contaminated by our reality, it makes public opinion toxic and makes it impossible for Bosnia and Herzegovina to develop a normal environment, an environment in which we will retain young people and their families in Bosnia and Herzegovina, drive investors from Bosnia and Herzegovina and send very bad messages, so that I simply think that we can no longer wait and that, in an institutional and legitimate sense, we must react as soon as we speak about hate language. In the current BiH Criminal Law, only the criminal act of causing national, racial and religious hatred has been incriminating, which is not enough since not every other form of hatred is criminalised in public discourse, but only national, racial and religious hatred. This proposal for amending the Criminal Law aims to extend the scope of the incriminating hate speech at the level of the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in a way that is not only national, racial and religious hatred, but every other form of hatred aimed at an individual or a member of a group because of their national, racial, religious or ethnic origin, language, skin color, sex, sexual commitment, disability, birth identity, origin or any other trait. Also, the existing Law sets out the means by which hate speech is declared or made available, which, in my opinion, is another important step forward in clarifying this description of the crime. I believe that such a legal formulation in terms of general prevention would have an effect on the deterrence of individuals or groups of people from spreading incriminating hate speech, with particular emphasis on the spread of hate speech on the Internet, where, under the act of anonymity, they write and say serious insults at the expense of other persons, where, as we know, there is no legal or other sanctions. Preventing hate speech in public space would certainly help us to realise one of the key priorities, priority number five of the European Commission's Opinion on the request of Bosnia and Herzegovina for membership in the European Union, which is that we need to take concrete steps to improve the environment that is suitable for reconciliation and improvement of co-operation. In the end, I just want to point out three important things. The first is that such a legal solution is not a novelty in the modern democratic and legal systems of the countries of the region and of the member states of the European Union. This would allow Bosnia and Herzegovina to take over the successful practice that we have in both Croatia and Slovenia, both in Germany and France, and in a number of other countries, which in the same or similar way regulated the issue of banning hate speech on the Internet with a special aspect of social networks. Secondly, such a legal solution is fully in line with the freedom of expression guaranteed by the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms. And finally the third thing I want to point out is that for a reason I have proposed that this law be considered in accordance with the ordinary legislative process, that is, the procedure, although it has an element of urgency in all aspects, I have opted for a regular procedure because I am fully open to all kinds of suggestions, amendments, comments, and even criticism on this Law. So, through an open and quality parliamentary debate, we can discuss and find the best solutions to the problem that has burdened us for more than 25 years. Finally, another note, as I heard on the Legislative Commission one view that, given that this issue is not so comprehensive, but partly resolved in the legislation of the BH entity Republika Srpska, there is no need to bring these amendments to the Criminal Law at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I do not think that such an attitude has a foothold, because the already existing incriminating acts have been challenging national, racial and religious hatred for 15 years and have been in the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the law at the level of both entities, and this law is needed because entity laws cannot, of course, prevent the incrimination of acts that, for example, occur when it comes to hate speech at the level of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I believe that this law is really necessary for all of us to relax public space, to prevent those who bring such 24 forms of hatred towards another and different in public space, and certainly bring the level of political and other communication to one level as modern European democratic states do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10131	Thank you, dear colleague Zvizdić. I don't see any more complaints on this agenda. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point eight, Ad. 8. Report from the Joint Committee on the achievement of the same text of the Law on Temporary Measures in the work of BiH's judicial and other bodies during the state of natural or other disasters on Bosnia and Herzegovina (proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH), issue: 01.02-50-14-961-21, since 11.05.2021 The law on temporary measures in the work of BiH's judicial and other bodies during the state of natural or other disasters on Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory was adopted in various texts in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes, which is why the Joint Commission of both homes was formed to achieve the same text of the Law. The commission delivered the Report, agreed on a text with six amendments previously adopted at the 16th session of the House of Peoples, held on 08.04.2021. I'm opening a debate on the report. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point nine, Ad. Nine. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal of MP Dragan Mektić, who reads: "I propose an initiative to supplement the agenda of the 19th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH, which reads: The BiH Council of Ministers is tasked with delivering the Reform Programme for 2019 (Defense) and the Defence Reform Programme for 2020 (adopted from the relevant commission) as well as the NATO document, which was delivered to the BiH Mission in Brussels during April of this year", issue: 01-50-1916/21, since 29/04.2021
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10154	I thank the chairman. In public these days, much has been said about this list that has been proposed and in the least controversial names that have been found on it. There are two names ahead, Vladimir Jurišić and Antonio Beus. Vladimir Jurišić is the godfather of Vlado from that video from the "Pottowing" affair. Antonio Beus is a man who, I don't know what kind of personal capacity he has, but who is suggested wherever he can be proposed. He is president of the Kiseljak NGO, which is called the Film Industry Association, which has been authorised to raise funds for copyright, which was obtained in the way it was, as well as around which the litigation is being conducted, since the former holder of the licence was the Association of Film Workers, whose license was withdrawn. Since it's not the subject of this session, I'm not going to go into the depths of this problem, which is a very important issue to myself. Since it is a very important area accompanied by controversy, judicial proceedings and where, for the sake of uncertainty, legal uncertainty, cable operators do not pay copyright but the funds are reserved. And by some estimates the last few years that it hasn't worked, millions of marks have been collected. The same man is the chairman of the Federation of BiH's Management Board, so someone who is now on the other side of the story should influence who gets the money to make films. He also appeared as a candidate for the director of RAK, and when he did not pass, he was first ranked for the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency Council, which, as you know, is responsible for cable operators. So here is more than an obvious conflict of interest which was actually not an obstacle to the Commission's proposal. If there is a need, I can also talk about this Association, about the revision of the work of the Association carried out by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, about how and in what way the companies of the same man are doing business with the Association that collects money or companies of close relatives, and about how this man has sued the RAC, where he is now applying to the competition, for which a decision on the non-execution of the investigation has recently been made, since everything he is public with these days has been stated in that lawsuit that has been dismissed. So, at least these two candidates, and we could talk about others, I find not credible to appoint to the BiH Regulatory Agency for Communications Council. And I call on you 34 all to protect Parliament's integrity in a way that we reject this list and ask the RAC Council after a long time to get its members, but those who are respected in public, who have nothing to do with any controversy, litigation, etc. I will remind you further that one of the criteria for RAC members not being politically engaged. If you need it individually, but here on this list you have people who have their biographies, which you can find, is you, very simple by searching, and it's not about these two, but the next thing you know, are very politically engaged, which is their right to freedom and I support them in that political engagement, but then it cuts with this where they're proposed. So, once again, I call on Parliament to show its sovereignty above all, to protect the integrity of this institution, to reject this proposal and ask for a proposal to be delivered to us, which we will all together, and the authorities and the opposition, to be able to raise our hand.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10155	Thank you. Alma Čolo's representative, the debate. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10156	Thank you, Chairman. I'd like a little bit on the legal aspects of this contest, because under Article 39. The Law on Communications procedure is being implemented by the Ad hoc commission of this Parliament. And the law stipulates that the Parliamentary Assembly may reject one or more candidates from the list provided by the Council of Ministers, which represents half the number set by this Ad hoc commission. According to the law, the Ad hoc commission determines 14 members, conveys to the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers delivers seven members and Parliament can reject one or more candidates. Which means we don't have to vote for the list in full today, we need to vote for each candidate individually. I doubt two candidates on this list, with regard to their appropriate experience in performing the tasks required under the Communication Act. The Law on Communications in Article 39 provides that candidates for the RAC Council must have five years of working experience in the activities of the Part-Corruption Agency. Mr. Antonio Beus, in first place, graduated from college in 2019, so two years ago. The relevant experience shall be considered a work experience in the tasks of the relevant expert training requested for the RAC Council. For the RAC Council, there is a faculty of technical or legal direction in the law. So he must have five years of work experience after gaining high professional training. I don't think that's right. It says here he's a computer tech, and I guess as a computer tech, he understands the affairs of the Communications Regulatory Agency. I'll just remind you that the RAC Council is elected by the Director of the RAC and is at the same time a second-degree authority on the decisions of the RAC. As for his responsibilities, the Communications Regulatory Agency brings very important documents. These are rules relating to broadcasting and telecommunications, both in fixed and mobile networks. It issues permits for telecommunications operators and issues permits for audio visual content providers, so-called cable operators. It allocates frequency spectrum, determines operators with significant market power. This Mr. Beus wrote that he is the author of several copyright papers. I don't know how someone with 35 high school can be the author of multiple copyright papers. I don't think he meets the terms of the Communication Act. It also seems to me that another candidate does not meet the requirements, and that is Mr. Vladimir Jurišić, number six. He's the Secretary of the General Court in Banja Luka. I don't know, I went through his biography, I don't see where he gained five years of work experience in the area of telecommunications. Telecommunications are, believe me, a very sophisticated job and not everyone can do it. I suggest, there are very good candidates here, credible candidates, that we individually plead to each other. And I would just like to point out that the Council of the Regulatory Agency for Communications is the authority that manages the strategic affairs of the telecommunications sector in this country, and that it is a body that does really work for digitalisation and is very important for the entire telecommunications sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I don't think we should go over any of the passes made by the Ad hoc commission or by someone who's been working on that commission. I suggest, therefore, an individual statement and that these remarks be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10157	I thank the MPs. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10158	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I refer to what my colleague Magazinović and colleague Čolo said. Namely, colleague Magazinović, in a similar way, said Mrs. Čolo, that we should maintain the dignity of this House, yes, when making our decision on the selection of the proposed one. Well, I don't know, so if our committee we named, our Council of Ministers, too, which we've named here, so, and we've suggested all of this, checking all the allegations that Čolo is now challenging. I didn't, therefore, go in so detailedly, whether, school, not school, I don't know, papers, etc., what the Commission should have done, what the Council of Ministers had to do, and when they delivered it to us here as a proposal I can't believe, so now we say that our Committee and that our Council of Ministers has no dignity. So, that what we're talking about here, under the so-called "species" that didn't check out in technical terms of the word, so the story of the school, I don't know, the conditions, uh, doing the job on certain jobs, etc. So, if that's the case, then I don't know what our commission was doing and what they did and what they actually suggested to us, and whether they're disabling us with it, do they, therefore, have our bodies in power, the ones that we're in charge of doing it? I can't believe it. And on the other hand, therefore, we have a list in front of us and I don't see the reasons, so if the Commission voted, stabbed a certain one, the people who ran here, and the first man on the list that, such failures were that he couldn't be the first on the list, that we now need to separate that something. I'm about to vote on the list, to vote on the proposal, so what came before us, and in some ways, not to talk about the integrity of the body we set up, which, who did the job for us. If all this is missed, and those things that Mr. Magazinović was talking about are not really the subject, he said himself, means the works of the Institute, the work, so, these associations, I don't know about, cable operators, when they're on the agenda in 36 composition of the reports of those bodies, then we'll probably discuss them in the way he might have tried. I don't want to go in so much, we have a list and I'd suggest we get on with it.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10159	Thank you. Representative Saša Magazinović, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10160	A kolega of Lovrinović always gets a hard job defending his defenses. And I understand, indeed, both the party and every other obligation, but I'm younger, but try not to get too involved in this, because it's indefensible. So what my colleague said is one aspect of the story. What I'm talking about is not a direct topic, but it's connected because the Communications Regulatory Agency gives permission to cable operators, and of which copyright is charged at a certain rate. So this is all connected and it's all connected in one person called Antonio Beus. So, you don't have to trust me, I assume you trust your party colleague, Merdžo, who is the director of the Institute for Intellectual Property of BiH. It is this institution that has supervised the work of the Association of Film Industry, where they have put on paper and signed, that the public document will allow you to look at, that there are no rules, that there is no surety to determine the purpose and justification of costs, and that, don't take me exactly for a word now, I have to look at it, but it seems to me about six thousand marks collected, that it is dominantly or planned to pay to two companies, not authors, but two companies, write names there, one owner Mr Beus, and the other one of his close, close relative. So that's what the Institute wrote in that opinion. And this is all about candidate credibility, and so none of this is something anyone invented, these are all the documents of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So it is also related copyrights and associations that have a licence as they got it, court disputes and RAC which is directly responsible for cable operators, who again on the other hand pay... [[representative is warned on time]] So, it is all connected and it is a conflict of interest, which Mr. Beus says, don't slow it down, but he says I'll resign when I'm elected. Of course, in, where he's going to resign, he's a close relative, as he is in those companies.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10161	Thank you very much. Advocacy Alma Čolo, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10162	I was talking really about the legal aspects of the competition, I have a biography here, a man graduated in 2019, means a work experience for a particular workplace is calculated from the moment of getting ready for that job. For this position in the RAK Council, it is wanted, for this position a high professional prepares and he must be five years old since he graduated college, it is not and it does not say here, I don't know or... someone cheated on us or didn't, but that's the case. Why don't I think we should vote for the list? Well, because Article 39 states, if the Parliamentary Assembly rejects one or more candidates, it informs the Council of Ministers of reasons for not being appointed and asks the Council of Ministers to present a new 37 proposal within 30 days. Which means every candidate needs a special vote. And another thing that is not legally respected in this contest, these are two members of the Communication Act, to which this competition relates, those are the provisions of Article 36(4) and Article 39 (9) which speak about gender equality in the RAC Council. This is a list of seven men, there are no women, and the law explicitly prescribes it. Well, no one's tricking us, but you can see that the terms of the law are not met.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10163	Thank you very much. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10164	I refer to what my colleague Magazinović and Mrs. Čolo said. So if that's how it is, then really, someone's tricking us, Mrs. Čolo, so I'm talking about the list to be returned, you see what you've stated, if someone hasn't done it in the procedure that preceded this whole thing, if we haven't technically implemented these things, then there's nothing to discuss, so we need to return the list to the Council of Ministers and then tell them that they cheated on us. And since there was a vote on the Council of Ministers, as it was, as the commission passed, I don't know. So, you've made an effort, found, I don't dispute that that's what it says, but then you need to get the whole list back, so obviously, so somebody didn't do the job right. Mr. Magazinović, I'm not defending anything, because this is not the topic of the conversation that you've been talking about again in part, so it's not the topic of this debate. The conflict of interest if he is going to be resolved or not resolved, so, or then there will be a conflict of interest and man will not be able to act as he said. And these are all the allegations you're talking about, cable operators, court proceedings, they're not the subject. So the proposal for a list came before us as compared to the commission, or adopted by the Council of Ministers, and we are obliged to plead or accept or not accept. I understand that both you and Collo are presenting certain data, which you have explored yourself, have come to them, it is of course your right, therefore, but obviously we cannot access at all, so voting on the list, so it is not done properly, if that is the case. I did not investigate it, nor seek it, I suggest that we make a statement about the list, I believe our bodies have done their job with credibility, have suggested, therefore, a list, and not that they have proposed a hoax, and here you think it is different, in the end there is Parliament, and let it be made known. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10165	Thank you very much. Advocacy Alma Čolo, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10166	Well, I just have to supplement, our colleagues sitting on the ad hoc commission, they made a list of 14 people and they delivered it to the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers narrowed it down to seven, unless we choose one of these Council of Ministers from that list of 14 can propose someone new, unless they act according to our conclusion, then there is a new competition for those places we have not voted on. But we can't plead on a list or against a list in the law specifically 38 stands for one if one or more candidates refuses. So we're pleading on each candidate individually.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10167	I thank my colleague. Representative Predrag Kožul, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10168	A warm greeting from a colleague and a colleague and all present. Well, I agree with previous speakers in one, that the RAC Council is an important body. Namely, he, it is the only authority that controls the operation of the RAC and which the Director of the RAC is responding to. This is because the RAC is an independent, professional regulator that regulates the following issues: communication and award of licences for telephony, assignment of frequencies, broadcaster control, re-emitter control, respect for the Copyright Act, punishment, appointment of members of the supervisory and administrative departments of public services. A whole spectrum of multimedia services and this is defined by the Communication Act, effectively only the RAC Council controls these powers. RAK's work is based mainly on internal regulations, unfortunately at this point in time, the current RAC rules in certain provisions are not in line with BiH law. For example, what we all know, although the Law says cable operators must transmit an integrated, unmodified signal, users, and we know it well, we get often darkened, darkening of the most attractive content due to the demand of the emitter, which is contrary to the Copyright Act. This is one of the two reasons why I'm holding that what Mr. Beus is as first-ranked on this list, uh, has as a reference to this work, is that so far he's gone into conflict with a powerful lobby of cable operators. They're breaking the law in this blackout, and even more importantly, they're breaking the law because of the lack of copyright, and that's what a man asked as a head of the NGO, to point out. My colleague Magazinović, no one has appointed Mr Beus, a state institution from either side of the NGO, you know it very well. And the other thing we know, or at least I suppose, or at least so said, is that it's an NGO that's not funded by any budget, at any level, which is formal, that financing would formally be a prerequisite for the conflict of interest that we're talking about here. Everything else Mr. Beus has done in contact with the RAK, in applications according to the RAK, seems to me to be a fundamental public interest, and even those groups of artists who stood behind your back, colleague Magazinović, at a press conference. I've also followed closely what's going on with this subject, I've followed this press conference closely, and I must say it surprised me very much, for two reasons, my colleague. The first is that there were a number of heavy charges without valid evidence, there was no court verdict that we were talking about, and there was a hypothetical multimillion-dollar crime. I really don't mind that... they were a group of authors, artists, I, unlike some other colleagues, appreciate their artistic work, really, but don't give them the right to do the paperwork, or the permission they lost because they simply lied about their references to represent, to represent copyright. And the Association of the Film Industry that got those rights, I, I would not burden you here with quotes, carefully read the documents of the Institute of Intellectual Property, proved the most qualitative reference for a job that, for the right it received from the Institute of Intellectual Property. The other thing that surprised me, my colleague, is one, I would say, an inappropriate or street dictionary compared to one institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the director of that, the institution that was said here at that press conference, and it surprised me and made me sad. So it seems to me that 39 essentially all come down to lobbys and money, cable operators' money and money that one association or group of people who have a single name, I don't need to read here, uh, in different ways don't control some money, and they're used to it and they hold that right. Every time money concerns, here's copyright, and cultures try to disperse and decentralize, we have the same problem. A similar problem was with the Federal Ministry of Culture, of the same people, so it seems to me that it's essentially all about money and, I think, an acclaimed flosscule, that an association that's not from Sarajevo, and it shouldn't have had much money. Therefore, it seems to me, not to enter into these facts that Čolo stated, I have trusted and believed in the materials that we have received from the Council of Ministers and the materials that the ad hoc commission in which our colleagues from this Parliament sat and it seems to me that it is the right way to appoint such an important body as the RAC Council so that it could actually do these jobs that I hold in mind that people have references.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10169	Thank you very much, very much. Representative Marinković-Lepić-Lepic debate. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10170	Well, I'd say first of all, referring to the discussions so far, that this House is making a final decision. So, as who was doing and what he was doing, he could've done what he wanted, but it's up to us, and we're responsible for that decision. This is not the first time that certain bodies at state level are named past the law, I have personally pointed out on several occasions, especially when it comes to the appointment of the Director of the Regulatory Agency for Communications, which has been fined by the same Regulatory Agency a dozen times during his time as Director of the Public TV Service and at a time when the RAK Council had a good term of office. I also pointed to irregularities of legal and non-compliance with the law in the appointment of the Office of Appeal and three members from which it is appointed chairman, where it is completely past the law, in particular Article 93. Public procurement laws have been appointed by those persons and later by the other members of the Office of Appeals. I have publicly invited you here to open this member of the Public Procurement Act, where it is seen that the Law was then violated and that, therefore, the conditions set out in the contest are contrary to the Law. But until now, usually the ruling parties have agreed on appointments, and there was no problem, regardless of the violation of the laws, here I am glad that they at least disagree today. We are constantly listening to excuses here, I do not believe that the commission is this or that or that the Council of Ministers is this or that, although directly, therefore, it has argued that the proposals were made under the law and that the procedures have not been carried out properly, so here is the case that Čolo was very detailed. I would, of course, say first of all that I will not vote, therefore, that everything is in the best order, I would not vote for the violation of the Law on Gender Equality, because we really testify here to one discrimination when it comes to women, I will only say by the way that you would have it in mind and when we vote on amendments to the Council of Ministers' Law that of a total of 90 positions at the level of state institutions, women are in 12 positions or 13.33%. Also, I can't believe that it's really being discussed here in a way that says that faith is given to those who have carried out this procedure, although here we hear an argument that man doesn't satisfy the basic condition to be appointed, which is a work experience and on what basis we actually need someone to trust or give him faith. Also, I have to say that these appointments don't all come down to money, at least he may not be in the first place, here it comes down to 40 control of certain institutions, and then money. So I have to say that we finally need to stand in the way of the appointment of incompetent personnel into certain state bodies, which has been the case so far, because even in the appointment of the Office of Appeals we didn't know how the candidates proved their, their expertise in the field of public procurement, etc. etc. It's just one example. Well, here's what we voted for, then, for the director of the RAC who was being punished by that same RAK, so I don't know how, how he's leading it today. So I think that this is the way of deciding to split the tissue of this country and that we finally need to get in his way, because we're naming incompetent personnel, of course, not us, is named mostly, I didn't vote for any such appointment, starting with incompetent ministers, who aren't able to refer a report to the commission that worked on his ministry, which we witnessed yesterday at a session of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, and so on. So, if this is voted today, indeed those who vote for this will be held accountable for the dispersal of the country's tissues and its institutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10171	Representative Snježana Novaković-Novaković-Bursać, rectification of the wrong allegation. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10172	Honored chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues. I would only use part of this time to correct the quote of my colleague Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, but at the same time if you allow me to ask for a break on behalf of the SNSD Club, because here, in this break, it is intended, please as members of the Kolegijum, with the participation of the secretary, to really give us the opportunity, to say, the management of this point, because, namely, Ms. Čolo said, they differ significantly in relation to prepared material and I would not want us to come into a situation to vote in some way, and that we do not really have a position to vote on this material, of course, in the follow-up session. As for Mrs Marinković-Lepić-Lepic's allegations, we don't know how we vote. I do not think it is correct in this case and in all previous cases the Parliamentary Assembly, most often both of them are running and setting up an ad hoc commission which, on behalf of all of us and, of course, with the help of the Secretariat, carries out a check on how the documents arrived, whether or not they are in conformity with the law and, of course, carry out a verification of all the other required conditions in the sense of whether the candidates meet or not the conditions. So I think that, in this particular case, we had an ad hoc commission that did its job, and in all the cases so far, we have the principle that we approach from the point of view of the material, and I don't have at this point and I have followed what was happening in the media, but really at this point I don't have the opportunity as an MP, anyway as you all do, to plead in depth whether or not something is true in those materials or newspaper inscriptions, but surely we have the space and need to check how we can continue to manage this material at all, so please, Mrs. Krišto, to give us a break now 15 minutes, or how long enough it is enough for the Kolegijum to state the allegations and Mrs. Čolo, and some of whom we have discussed, in general, how we should act on this point.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10173	Thank you, colleague Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać. Well, like this, the intensity of us in college was when we had this debate on this agenda point to give a break for lunch, so if it's acceptable for you to do that in some way, we understood. 41 So here we are, if we can go with, the correction of the false allegations of the confidant Marinković-Lepić-Lepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10174	Well, here's a real example of how these commissions decide and whether we should give them trust or not, and whether we should check certain things out. This isn't the first case, and here I am, and I've cited what cases have been up to now, where I've been publicly, so I've been calling for you all to open up on your cell phones, Article 93. Public procurement laws. And also, here's today, that the commission is proposing to us a candidate who doesn't meet one of the basic conditions, which is a work experience after the acquisition of the expertise, enough tells us how long it takes for us to trust these commissions.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10175	A representative of Alma Čolo, a correction to the wrong assumption, seems to me, a colleague for the third time, so you have no business right. We move on to the debate, the representative of the Nada Mladina, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10176	I warmly welcome you all, the chairman and all MPs. I want to say that there are a lot of arguments here that we can doubt that by the end of the Council of Ministers, and the ad hoc commission has worked seriously and in accordance with the law, to offer us here in Parliament and to give us the responsibility to vote for something that we can doubt for all these arguments. I, of course, don't want to, I'll participate, but I can't support it. I cannot trust an ad hoc commission more than any of these other people I also respect, not only to the MPs but also to all these people to whom this is concerned, and the Regulatory Agency for Communications is, not underestimating others, very important to this House, that is, our Parliamentary Assembly, and we who are its constituent part, should not vote anything that we suspect is in accordance with the law. So I will be against and vote individually, because I don't want to assume the role of the ad hoc commission, and I also think this should go back to work and be done in accordance with the legal rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10177	Thank you very much. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10178	Thank you. Well, I didn't mean to take any more part in this, because I felt that we should approach the vote and I wasn't sure that we would make a decision by consensus, as Mr Magazinović might have expressed his wish and what rarely when we do, it would be good, of course, but for some proposals to be an opposition and that is the right to not be and to be dissatisfied with the name, as Mrs Lepić said etc. However, after her discussion, I had to stand up and say this, that this Parliament is making, she said, illegal decisions. I will remind you only, colleague, that 42 we voted here, appointed the Central Election Commission completely illegal. Only the lady came out, so, and you didn't, so listen, then, it was an illegal vote, and Mrs. Čolo would say there was no list at the time, and she supported it. So there were no lists at all to see the credibility of these candidates, neither what they were doing, nor how they were, but people were kicked out of our sleeves, there was nothing from the list of people taken, so we raised our hands and chose the Central Election Commission, which is not as important as the RAC but as more important as five times as the RAC to create political life in this country. So let me remind you, although Mrs. Lepić was not then, in the last term we have appointed an investigative commission over the situation in the judiciary, so there is no more equitable example of pressure on the situation in... on the independence of the judiciary than the appointment of such a commission which is being passed by courts, prosecutors, etc. You'll see if... they ever file such a report, what they asked everyone there, into certain cases, so that's, that's an equident example of pressure on an independent judiciary, and we chose it here as well. And we have a proposal from the Council of Ministers, we have a proposal and the work of our colleagues who worked on that ad hoc commission, we have a non-acceptation of one part of their colleagues not to accept such names, which is understandable, which is a little bit of their right, we have, here, what Mr., therefore, Kožul was telling another kind of that story, but it's not the subject, I repeat again, and I'm sorry that we're getting into, uh, simplified into this kind of debate, which you consider a very important story. So, that we've been making illegal solutions for me, but also how in more important issues than this, so here's nothing, we pretend like nothing happened and life goes on. So, I suggest, in the end, we make a statement, we have a list, if it goes away, if it doesn't pass, and secondly, I don't think there's anything we can do today.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10179	zastupnica Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, a correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10180	Well, I wouldn't be too lenient, but I can't help but look back on the allegations. So, regardless of the members of the CEC were appointed in accordance with the law, I should just point out that Club Our Party – The Independent Block was then abstention in voting. And on the other hand, not Mr. Lovrinovic's Research Commission for the Study of Justice has been appointed in accordance with the Law on Parliamentary Control and completely, completely legally appointed, here, of course, you will have the opportunity to read our report and hopefully, you will indeed have what to read.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10181	Representative Zukan Helez, hearing. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10182	I thank the chairman. Dear Chairman, representatives of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I think there's a legal violence on the scene today, this is unprecedented, I've been in parliamentary benches for a long time. I've never seen this before. So this is exactly the same as having a doctor's competition, and someone has a high-school medical school, competed with five other doctors, and you choose the one with a high-school medical school, or a nurse or a medical technician, exactly the same. Conditions say he has five years of working experience on the same or similar jobs, a man doesn't have, has two years in total since he graduated college. And this is a typical example when party bosses order something to go, and a classic example is that something is in conflict with the law and it's illegal. I don't know how these people's powers and powers, the heads of the 43 that are currently in power, order people to do that, and I don't know what these people's moral credibility is that they want to spend. We can discuss whether someone deserves or doesn't deserve it, but people like what a debate is if someone doesn't meet the general conditions, so there's no discussion about it. It's an even bigger tragedy that the Council of Ministers passed and that it passed to the ad hoc commission, I can't believe people let that go. Look, of course I'll be against it, is it possible that in the 21st century someone doesn't meet for such an important position and that top of the state, so people aren't this local community and that the local community has to respect the law? These people are above the Constitution, above the law, and I can't believe this is happening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10183	Thank you very much for your representative. Aida Baručija's representative, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10184	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome all present. Since we have been able to see from the discussion so far that there is doubt about the implementation of this competition procedure I will propose one conclusion, which is – since I doubt this implementation of the competition procedure, and there is no respect for the Law on Gender Equality, I propose that we do not vote on this list, and that we return it to the Council of Ministers for Co-operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10185	Thank you very much to my colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10186	Your Honor, Mrs. Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10187	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Here, I have listened carefully to all these discussions that took place under point 30, and this is the proposal for a decision on the appointment of the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency, the proposal for the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport. Why I wanted this, and by respecting both the colleagues and colleagues who discussed it, we need to know today when we talk about the procedure, the legal conditions, the credibility of people, etc., then we need to respect maybe not just one law and regulation, but everything that involves this procedure from the proposal itself to the final appointment. Why do I want to say this? So, the Ad hoc commission appointed for the conduct of this procedure was appointed by this House, carried out the procedure, so it was a joint commission from both homes, and according to the law it was tasked to submit a proposal to the Council of Ministers for the appointment of members of the Board of Regulators of the Communications Agency and to deliver 14 candidates. I think the commission did it the best possible way. But the apropo legal conditions you're talking about and brought up by colleague Čolo, I've carefully read the legal provision and I want to highlight what, uh, which was, in some 44 ways, the matter of the commission, so let's get it straight. I don't think anyone here is intended or interested in questioning a particular procedure mentioned in the law. Why, I suppose, has it been delivered to the Committee that all of the candidates who have been interviewed and who have passed meet the legal requirements? Well, probably from the fact that the Law, Article 39, which means lex specialis for the appointment of this body, this body and this Agency, states in its Article 3 paragraph (c) that it has at least five years of working experience in the activities of the Agency's department, as set out in this Act. A previous one says that a member of the Agency's Board may be appointed as a person who meets the following conditions: that he is a citizen and that he has a high professional technical or social orientation. To me as lawyers who often follow these tender procedures and when we appoint people in this way, and we know that the State Service Act for certain places prescribes high professional training and five years after high professional training. Here probably the services that have united us have fulfilled, and I know that a particular form is being made regarding all those standing in the tender procedure. So, in the tender procedure, it did not seem to have a high level of expertise and five years of work experience after high professional training. They were delivered here to meet all formal conditions. And I have to say I remember very much now, no matter what much is said here about certain candidates I must admit that I don't know any candidates personally, but I also remember very well the gentleman whose name here is mentioned, Mr. Antonio Beus, as I recall, that the man was the first in the interview. And I think that even after all the interviews that had been conducted, which had been approached by certain candidates, he had the best reference in the interview by all the committees, because they asked people who were members, who were not just members of this committee ad hoc from the Parliamentary Assembly, so that they could not be attributed to it only to this member. There were people out there who could ask a question, who know what is part of the work of this agency council. And he was the best in the interview. And so among these 14 persons it was delivered that name in a way that met all the conditions, an interview performed and where the person had the best references by all the members of this Ad hoc commission. Everything was delivered to the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers was to be delivered to us, and it delivered to us, a proposal for a decision that we are considering here today. And I think it would be least correct of all that, if there are certain dilemmas and if there is a basis in some kind of legal procedure, then we point out exactly that, and not that we bring up here maybe some things that absolutely don't stand, and among other things, conflict of interest, etc. There's no conflict of interest here. On the other hand, if there is, it's decided by another body, not us here. Because this is all that's been put out absolutely not standing. So, the only legal dilemma that can be set in this case is this ambiguity that stands in the lex specialis of the law in Article 39 where it says it has a high level of expertise, but when it talks about experience is a special point that says that it has at least five years of working experience on business in the work of the Agency. Here, thank you very much, and of course everyone can have their own position and will have it in terms of it, and I believe that we as responsible institutions can do everything in accordance with the procedure and enable the work of these agencies, because here, among other things, it has been said that it is not such a single body insignificant, but that it decides on one segment and one important business. And I'm really sorry to say that I'm so surprised with the people who signed up here, that all these people are familiar with a particular area, even here I can say it might be, uh, but it's simply such a procedure of appointment that they're appointed by the Parliamentary Assembly. Even as members of that temporary commission, we may not even be invited to interview people who have worked and who have so much work to do in this area. Thank you very much. 45 Advocacy Zukan Helez, a correction of the false precept.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10188	Dear MPs, all of us who worked in the executive office, uh, we had similar problems or we met with what we had before us today. It happens that a long time ago a staff/referencing officer in the ministry or in some body and graduates from college in the meantime, and two years ago, he graduated from college, applied for, say, this expert associate or senior associate where he needed a five-year experience. He worked in the same brand, the same thing, but he hasn't worked for five years with the university. And that when he goes to the Government's Legislative Office, which is appropriate to say whether it's in accordance with the law or not, every time he rejects the Office of Law, he can't do that. Or, here's to making it easier for anyone who doesn't understand me to explain, it's similar to competing with a high school translator for a German or English language teacher in high school or a high school where you're asked to, of course, have a high level of professional training. And I think here he wants to bridge that, here, uh, to meet some political needs, that it's in accordance with the law. I responsibly claim that this is not in accordance with the law and if, here, who is already, is HDZ, who is in the game, this Beus in front of whom is, and here is what counterpart Magazinović said most of them are there, are members of certain parties and even in the leadership of certain parties, it is evident that the background of political nature. And I suggest we return this to the Council of Ministers, to be a serious institution. And yet you will be yours in front of the parties You have most, choose, but let it be in accordance with the law, I beg you. [[representative is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10189	Representative Predrag Kožul, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10190	It is good to say that what counterpart Helez was saying about the referents and the tenants and the promotions concerned civil servants and the Law on Civil Servants. It is therefore good here, if it is not clear to all, to make it clear that members of the Communications Regulatory Agency are not civil servants.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10191	Representative Zukan Helez, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10192	Well, look, this has nothing to do with civil servants, uh, this is just like me saying today is a hot day, and my colleague says, uh, yeah, June is today. This has nothing to do with civil servants, but this is not in line with the existing law that regulates this. So illegal. It's, I don't know, and you all know it's illegal but here I see it's trying in various ways to pass. I repeat, if you repeat the competition again, your majority will pass again, but let it be in accordance with the law. Don't make legal violence in the highest legislative body. If we do that here, what kind of message is lower levels of government, what's the message to the citizens? And then we're surprised that young people are leaving this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10193	Representative Saša Magazinović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10194	So here are several aspects of problems related to the same man. One of these is technically, but not at all irrelevant. So, here's a colleague, Čolo, what she said to me was an unknown fact that a man is a freshly finished student, and that doesn't mean he doesn't have any knowledge... is it? There are different ways to gain knowledge, but this is more than clear. But you have this essential part that is also very, very important. I honestly wonder the HDZ here because this was a completely passing thing, and it wasn't as if you were a party burning on a man who was first licensed to collect copyrights, so you put him on the board to share money to make films, and now in the RAC to regulate more cable operators. So, if you'd found anyone who wouldn't be discussing this at all today, you'd have somehow felt so powerful, I wouldn't say bahatim, that we could say whatever we wanted. Here, we'll put the same man in three places. I talked to this man, and I told him the same thing, it's not your friends who are pushing you into this. Finely told you fellow Zukan, you are the authority, although this is completely, completely illogical for us to fill an independent institution with people based on an inter-party agreement. Like the CEC, he says - independent. How independent are they? You know who's from which party. Here's this. But, here, if you'd packed it up a little bit, and this is sticking your finger in your eye, and this is real, I think this list should be voted on. And let's all say together, and individually, there's a list, what anyone thinks about this kind of policymaking. [[representative is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10195	I don't see any more people here, Čolo's second debate, so yeah. We've exhausted the debate. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. At this point I'm taking a break from, if we're going to take an hour, that's about 15 minutes to 3, so at 2:45 I'll see you here. [[PAUZA]] Since we have a quorum, we can keep working. Before we move to point 31, I propose that we bring together the debate on points 31 to 34, as it is the appointment of members of the Management Board of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public TV System. Now, I ask you to come forward with a motion to unite the debate on points 31 to 34. Of the 29 present – for 24, against 2 abstentions 3. There's a general and entity majority. I find that we have united the debate by points 31 to 34. Point 31, Ad. 31. Appointment of a member of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Public Radio Television Service Management Board from the Bosniak people, applicant of the candidate ranking: Council of the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency, issue: 01.02-34-1-99/21, dated 30.04.2021.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10201	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Article 76(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives provides that the MP may request a word to correct, in his view, a false statement which may be the result of a misunderstanding or which requires an explanation. Regarding this, this does not specify that it should be on the agenda of Mr Lovrinović's discussion of the Interim Investigation Commission. Therefore, it has been established in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, has the full support of the international community, operates in accordance with this Rules of Procedure and the Law on Parliamentary Oversight. Therefore, Mr. Lovrinović's intervention, not only not founded, is going directly against the Law on Parliamentary Oversight. And when it comes to the previous agenda point by which Mr. Lovrinović referred, the appointment of Vladimir Jurišić, the godfather of the government, the godfather of Milan Tegeltija, who was, a recording that was the reason for the establishment of the Justice Supervisory Commission, suggests that the coalition of SNSD, HDZ and the SDA works perfectly when it comes to the appointment of personnel. And that's why we're going to vote against the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10202	Your Honor, you have misused the business order of correcting the wrong allegations. We finished the debate at the previous point and now we've crossed over and united the debate on these points and there was absolutely no debate. You've come forward to correct the wrong assumption. So this is about the appointment of a point (?) BHRT Management Board. So there was absolutely no argument of any kind, so, but here, we let, we all heard what you've told us in fact. Debate, MP Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10203	Thank you, Chairman. As I have already said, Article 76(2) of the Rules of Procedure does not say which part of the agenda I can intervene on the wrong assumption, here is specifically Mr. Lovrinović, who here behaves like a coward and won't answer me this, uh, but if you as chairman, who scheduled the session 25.05. on the day of the massacre in the gate... 49
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10204	You're misusing, please, business regulations, I take your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10205	You want to continue, I'll ask for a break. I'll ask for a break if you continue with this.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10206	You can ask it's your right. You didn't get the word, you can't, uh, abuse it.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10207	I got the word, I got the word. If you continue with this, I'll ask for a break. I warn you not to insist on violating the Rules of Procedure.../representative taken from the word/...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10208	Please, have there been any reports of a debate on these agenda points?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10209	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10210	You're not the ones who decide if anyone has dealt with the Rules of Procedure, you haven't received a word, this breach of the Rules of Procedure doesn't apply, you can't conduct a dialogue, Mr. Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10211	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10212	You can't, you didn't get the word. Please, are there any reported items on these agendas? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate on these agenda points. We're going to 35th, Ad. 35. The conclusion by which the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives asks the Council of Ministers and the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of BiH for an urgent and maximum period of seven days from the date of adoption of this conclusion, production and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, following the urgent procedure of amending and supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of Bosnia and Herzegovina (‘the Official Messenger of BiH’, No 58/08), as well as the adoption of appropriate amendments to the Regulation on the procedure and way of granting marketing authorisation (‘the Official Messenger of BiH’, No 75/11), with the aim of enabling the vaccine against coronaryvirus (COVID-19), whose use has been previously approved by the European Medicines Agency or competent institutions of neighbouring countries, can be put into use and on the territory of BiH. These amendments and additions to that law and to the sublegal act would apply until the end of the declared pandemic COVID-19, Proposer: Agent Nenad Stevandić, number: 01-50-1-716/21, of 29.03. 021st year 50 At last session of the House, it was decided in the second round of voting to include this item in the agenda. I'm opening a debate on the proposal for a conclusion. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate on point 35. Moving to point 36, Ad. 36. Consideration of Saša Magazinović's parliamentary initiative "in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare within 60 days of the date of adoption of this initiative and to submit to the parliamentary procedure the Digital Service Tax Act", issue: 01-50-1-851/21, from 20.04.2021
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10215	Chairman, just a few sentences. So it's an initiative to tax digital services. Only if I can tell you what it is. Here, let's say Facebook commercials, if you pay any domestic media, you pay taxes, if you advertise on Facebook, no. Our legislation is obsolete and it currently predicts, believe it or not, that a person who pays a commercial, for example, on Facebook should pay taxes, – to whom to report, to which form, yes, it is a completely non-performing norm. In addition to that large... companies earn not only on commercials, but on sales and information about their users, as well as shopping interventions, so these are online department stores. The European Commission is preparing a proposal for a directive, but the largest number of European countries are not waiting for it, but have adopted this legislation. This was done by France, Italy, Austria, Great Britain, Poland, Hungary, etc. And our neighbouring country Croatia is preparing a tax law on digital services as well as close Slovenia. Now, while we've been doing this, I just have to say this applies to large companies that have a global income of 750 million euros and more, so it doesn't touch small-scale IT companies. While this initiative is being addressed, whether, in terms of the Digital Service Tax Act, and then we received information that Serbia, a neighbouring country, has shown very high quality steps in this direction in such a way as to oblige all these companies to have their own representatives, legal representatives and, in practice, here's the Amazon, Airbnb, Netflix, to pay taxes in Serbia. 51 The Commission therefore amended this initiative to regulate this area through amendments to the VAT law and unanimously adopted this initiative, which I thank. Of course, the Direct Taxation Authority will say its position on this issue, although if they follow the experience from the region, I don't think that's going to be a problem. So this is one of the few initiatives where we're not talking about spending money, but how to make something that is present and not paying taxes, so we're acting on the revenue side of the budget. The second topic is where that money will go, but it is again determined when the budget is adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10216	Thank you, Agent Magazinović, as the promoter. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on item 36. Before we move to point 37, I suggest we bring together the discussion of points 37 to 39 because it is about giving consent to ratifying materials at these points. Now I'm asking you to make a statement. Of the 30 present – for 21 against 6, abstentions 3. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I find that we have united the debate by points 37 to 39, including 39. Ad. 37. - Ad. 39. Granting consent to ratification of contracts and amendments The Foreign Affairs Committee delivered opinions. The Commission held that the previous conditions had been met for the House of Representatives to give consent to ratification under points 37 to 39. I'm opening a debate on those points. Representative Arnaut, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10218	Thank you, Chairman. Here I am using this opportunity to re-establish that MP Lovrinović is a coward because he must not open the debate on the Investigative Commission whose work has resulted in the launch of a disciplinary procedure against Gordana Tadić because he does not use the CMS system in my presence. Therefore, if MP Lovrinović has the courage to open a debate over the Investigation Commission in my presence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10219	I understand you've misused business regulations. I'm closing the debate on these agenda points. So at this point, 20 to 4, we will, so, about 45, we can do it in 16 and 45. I'm taking a vote. At 16 and 45 I'll see you here below to plead on today's agenda points. 52 [[PAUZA]] I ask my distinguished colleagues and colleagues that who is not to register because of the quorum, so that they may continue to work. We can proceed with the vote. Please prepare, we move to a statement under point 1. – The adoption of the minutes from the 19th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. Of the 29 present – for 28, no objection, 1 abstention. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we have adopted the minutes of the 19th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. We move to a statement on point 3. – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Procurement (P.Z.E.I.), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02- 1-495/21, of 1603.2021, shortened procedure (second reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal in the second reading. Of the 29 present – for 21 versus 8, have there been any suggestions, haven't I heard? No, it's not. For 21, against 8, there are no abstentions. There is a general, but there is no entity majority in Republika Srpska's entity. Consensus? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10224	One sentence, therefore, is the law that we are correcting, that is, opening up the possibility that he spoke about and chairing Tegelti, when there is money in the budget, and there is it, and no budget has been adopted, that elections can be financed when temporary funding is in place. So, very simple law.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10225	No more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. And now I urge you to come forward with me on the draft law on the financing of BiH institutions by emergency procedure. Of the 29 present – for 17 against 12, there are no abstentions. With the general majority, there is no entity majority in Republika Srpska's entity. Consensus, later? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Thank you very much, later consent, goes to the second round. Point 14. – Report by the College of Colleges on efforts to reach agreement on the request of MPs: Nermin Nikšić, Saša Magazinović, Nada of Mladina and Zukan Helez to consider the Proposal for a Law amending Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, number: 01-02-1-863/21, since 21.04.2021. We're voting in the second round on an emergency request. Of the 29 present – for 12 against 14, abstention 3. There is no general majority, we have not accepted that the bill is being considered by emergency procedure. And now I ask you to join the vote, to make it clear whether we will consider this motion for a vote in accordance with, or whether this proposal for a law is subject to a shortened procedure in accordance with Article 133(4) of the Rules of Procedure. 56 Please make a statement. Of the 29 present – for 14, versus 13, abstention 2. With the general majority, there is no entity in Republika Srpska's entity. Is it a later match? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10229	... You don't have to vote... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10230	So that's why I'm saying you don't have to vote, you agree, because it's coming back?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10231	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10232	I didn't hear, colleague Kojović.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10233	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10234	I watched and Mr. Kojović signaled whether to vote, because it is a proposal, and it is not there, so we have already adopted that we do not plead. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10235	... When the discussion was over, after the break you delivered yours. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10236	It was delivered earlier than, before, of course, the breaks were delivered and agreed.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10237	I mean, you could have consulted us, so maybe we can re-write, so let's be part of the signatories, I don't know what to say, we kind of gave up after the discussion, yours, I mean, is almost the same.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10238	Yeah, almost, it's similar. What do you say to your co-workers as a proposal for a conclusion? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10239	Come on, we'll vote for ours.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10240	Okay, the proposal for a conclusion is: Since the provisions of the competition procedure are not respected, and the Law on Equality we propose not to vote, and to return it to the Council of Ministers for Co-operation. _________(?) 61 [[no microphone turned on]] Well, there's no need, there's no need. I won't even plead, so. Of the 29 present – for 13, against 5, abstentions 11. There's a general, but there's no entity majority, so anyway this proposal is the conclusion, so it goes into some other kind of another. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10243	It's an ex-consensual match.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10244	Everything, okay. Before we move to point 31, I suggest we unite the vote............................................................... [[no microphone turned on]] We don't have a debate, we don't have a debate, we're voting now, because this point isn't open to crack, we don't have a debate. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10250	Well, I think we're sticking to the same thing as, uh, the chairman, I suggest we stick to the Rules of Procedure. My kolegica Aida suggested her conclusion during the debate, it is clear to everyone here that you came to that conclusion after numerous discussions and arguments during the break, when you negotiated here and then arbitrationally put your conclusion first on the vote, you who proposed these people to whom I would say biography and expertise are dissatisfied, now you submit the conclusion that this would return to added co-operation in the Council of Ministers. I mean, I understand that these two conclusions are the same, but it's very important, as I would say, from who they came from. I mean, at least that's what's important to us, but if this is how you're going to take over our conclusions, ideas and initiatives and put them first to vote in order to attribute them to themselves, then you're putting yourself in a position that you're the same majority that has proposed the people you suspect in right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10251	Thank you. We move on, before we move to point 31. I propose that we unite the vote on points 31. to 34. because it is the appointment of members of the BiH Public TV Service Management Board from the Bosniak, Croatian and Serbian people, and from the rest, and the committee responsible for Transport and Connections has proposed a unique conclusion of this point. We are now voting on a motion to unite the vote on points 31 to 34. Of the 29 present – 26 against 2, abstention 1. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we have pooled voting proposals according to points 31 to 34. Point 31. – Appointing a member of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public Radio Television Service Management Board from the Bosniak people, applicant for the candidate ranking: Council of BiH Communications Regulatory Agency, issue: 01.02-34-1-99/21, since 30.04.2021. Point 32. – Appointment of a member of the Management Board of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public Radio Television Service from the Croatian people, applicant of the candidate ranking: Council of the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency, issue: 01.02-34-1-99/21, since 30.04.2021. Point 33. – Appointing a member of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public Radio and Television Service Management Board from the Serb people, candidate ranking: Council of BiH Communications Regulatory Agency, issue: 01.02-34-1-99/21, since 30.04.2021. Point 34. – Appointment of a member of the Governing Board of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public Radio and Television Service from the ranks of others, applicant for the candidate ranking: Council of BiH Communications Regulatory Agency, issue: 01.02-34-1-99/21, since 30.04.2021. We are voting on the proposal to hold a vote in the package on the appointment of the following candidates from the rankings: Elvira Lemeša from the Bosniak people, Valentine Rupčić from the Croatian people, Rajko Radovanović from the Serbian people and Slavko Rolih from the others. 63 Out of the 29 present – for 22, against 3, abstention 4. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we have appointed candidates from the Elvira Lemeša ranking from the Bosniak people, Valentina Rupčić from the Croatian people, Rajko Radovanović from the Serbian people and Slavko Rolih from the others for members of the BiH Public Television Service Management Board. Point 35. – The conclusion by which the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives asks the Council of Ministers and the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of BiH for an urgent and maximum period of seven days from the date of adoption of this conclusion, production and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, following the urgent procedure of amending and supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of Bosnia and Herzegovina (‘the Official Messenger of BiH’, No 58/08), as well as to adopt appropriate amendments to the Regulation on the procedure and way of granting marketing authorisation (‘the Official Messenger of BiH’, No 75/11), with the aim of enabling the vaccine against coronaryvirus (COVID-19), whose use was previously approved by the European Medicines Agency or competent institutions of neighbouring countries, to be used immediately in the territory of BiH. These amendments and additions to that law and to the sublegal act would apply until the end of the declared pandemic COVID-19, Proposer: Agent Nenad Stevandić, number: 01-50-1-716/21, of 29.03. 021. We are voting on the adoption of the proposal for a conclusion. Of the 29 present – for 13, versus 8, abstentioned 8. In addition to the general, there is no entity majority in the Federation entity, we have not accepted the proposal of a representative Stevandić's conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10252	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10253	I said there's a general, and there's no entity, entity of the Federation, there's no such thing as an entity.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10254	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-05-25-0.u10255	We move on to a statement on point 36. – Consideration of Saša Magazinović parliamentary initiative "in charge of the Council of Ministers of BiH to prepare within 60 days of the date of adoption of this initiative and to submit to the parliamentary procedure the Tax on Digital Services Act", issue: 01-50-1-851/21, from 20.04.2021. We are voting on the adoption of a modified parliamentary initiative. Of the 29 present – for 19 against 5, abstentions 5. There is a general, but there is no entity majority in Republika Srpska's entity. Shall we do the same later? Later, okay. We'll go to round two later. Now, before we move on to the 37th point statement, I suggest we unify the statement on points 37 to 39 because it is about giving consent to ratification of material. 64 Please let us be clear about this. Of the 29 present – for 28, no, abstention 1. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we have united the plea by points 37 to 39. And now I ask you to be clear about giving consent to ratifying material from points 37 to 39. Of the 29 present – 28 for, no, abstention 1. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we have given consent to ratifying materials from points 37 to 39. This concludes the 20th session of the House of Representatives. The next House session is scheduled for 15 June 2021. Thank you for your cooperation, and I wish you a pleasant rest of the day. Session completed 17:37 a.m.
